[Music] Minister, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honor and a privilege for me to welcome you to Norisbank Climate Conference 2025. both those of you present here today and those of you who are following the conference online and as the central bank and MBIM are co-hosting this event it is a pleasure to share the stage with you Nikolai climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time its consequences are far and wide threatening biodiversity damaging homes and infrastructure and putting health and lives at risk. And the science is clear. Global warming is caused by human activity and global temperatures continue to rise. 2024 was the hottest year on record. But in a time of global uncertainty, it is easy to lose focus on the climate crisis. And yet, addressing it remains an urgent task. This year marks 10 years since the Paris Agreement was signed, aiming to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels. However, even if the world manages to limit global warming, the impacts of past greenhouse gas emissions on the climate will remain with us for years to come. And neither the central bank nor the MBIM can ignore this fact.
>> No, that's right. Um so let me start with um a question. Uh how many of you have been to Rome? That's pretty good. Well then you may have seen this sculpture. It's the capital line wolf and is one of the most famous sculptures in Rome. Now it depicts two twins Romelus and Remis who according to the myth later went on to found the city and they survived by circling on the shewolf and she became their mother earth so to say. So where am I taking this? Well, uh, second question. How many of you have been to the cosmopolitan city of Lilism? [Laughter] That's good. Here you may find this sculpture by contemporary artist Eric Palt, the capital wolf, too. Now, what happened to Romelus and Remos? Quite greedy, aren't they? And I kind of think this is visualizing what's going on just now. If the day if the way we live dayto-day is not sustainable in the long run, this is what's going to happen. Economics and finance are dependent on a sustainable world. Climate affects the economy and so therefore climate risk is a financial risk. And while being wellfed in the short term is a good thing in the long run it all needs to be sustainable and we are all in it for the long run. Absolutely Nicolai. Now the responsibility for reducing emissions rests with political authorities who also have the most effective instruments. But climate change and the climate transition affect the economy and therefore it also affects the work of the central bank. A decade ago, the then governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, gave a speech titled Breaking the Tragedy of the Horizon: Climate Change and Financial Stability. With that speech, he ushered us into a new era. Central banks started taking the effects of climate change more seriously and the network for greening the financial system was launched in 2017 by central banks and financial supervisors with the idea that we can approve our analysis by working together and sharing experiences. Now central banks are mandated to ensure price stability and financial stability. Climate change can affect both. More frequent and more severe weather events can lead to increased inflation volatility and make it harder to achieve price stability. For example, the rapid rise in food and beverage prices in Norway over the past year can in part be traced back to a sharp increase in the prices of cocoa and coffee and further back to drafts in Brazil and heat waves in West Africa. Ensuring financial stability could also become more demanding. Banks and insurance companies may experience greater losses both from the restructuring of the business sector resulting from the energy transition but also from the fact that extreme weather can destroy both crops and buildings. So inspire strategy gaining a better understanding of the effects of climate change on the Norwegian economy has been a priority. We are learning more every day but still do not have any definite answers. So climate change is affecting the work of the central bank but it's also affecting the work you do Nikolai.
>> Absolutely. So our fund uh our goal is to generate returns in financial markets not for ourselves but for gen for Norwegians now and future generations. We invest for the long term. We're invested in 9,000 companies across 70 countries and we own roughly one and a half% of all the listed equities in the world. Now when you own the whole world, what happens in one part of the world impacts the rest of it. What happens with one company is captured by all the other companies. That is why climate change impacts us. Climate risk is long-term, systematic and very uncertain. But mitigating and adapting to climate change also create economic opportunities. And our goal is to capture those opportunities. We worked on climate change for nearly 20 years to understand the effects on our portfolio. Three years ago, we launched the 2025 climate action plan with a very bold ambition to be the world leading in this area. Because if you have really high ambitions, you achieve great things even if you fall sh slightly short. If you have low ambitions, you achieve nearly nothing even if you succeed. This decade is crucial for achieving an orderly climate transition. It's complex and there will be winners and losers. Some high emitting companies will decline and perhaps disappear while others will transform and grow. And OA goal is to drive our companies towards net zero emissions by 2050. And this target guides all our work. Now, are we succeeding? Well, this is a marathon and not a sprint. And even as large investors, we need the help from the rest of you. We engage with companies with standard setters because we believe that climate risk is a financial risk and managing it is good for business. Our current plan ends this year, but tomorrow we are launching the climate action plan 2030. But no spoilers now.
>> So let's instead turn to today's wonderful program and let me first say we are delighted to have so many outstanding speakers here with us today. Now in the first session we will learn more about how the climate is changing and how the economy is impacted by those changes. The theme in the second session will be on the macroeconomic impacts and challenges of the lowcarbon transition. And after the lunch break, we are very fortunate to have the president of the European Central Bank Christine Lagard and former US vice president Al Gore deliver keynote addresses which will be followed by a conversation between the two moderated by Christine Halvan from Caesar and then in the final session we will delve into the consequences of climate change for financial markets and investors. Today's moderators are Deputy Governor Estein Basham and Karolina Espigen who is a researcher on climate economics here at the bank. So welcome to the stage Estean and Karolina. Thank you very much. It's so good to see all of you here today. And asa just said, Caroline and I, we will be chairing this event today. Yes. And we have a great program ahead of us and we're very excited for this allstar gathering of speakers. When we put together the program we started by asking the top climate experts on the field if they would like to participate and believe it or not everyone accepted our invitation.
>> So we really have something to look forward to. Now I have the pleasure of sharing this first session and Caroline will be back for the second. And this first session is about uh climate change and macroeconomic uh impacts. And we have three speakers that will shed light on this uh this matter. And first we're delighted to welcome Bernset from Cicero, the center for uh international climate research located here uh in Oslo. And Bjern Samset is also a professor at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. and he's a renown climate scientist, a former IPCC member who combines rigorous scientific expertise with exceptional communication skills. So today he will go to the core of the problem and update us on how the climate is actually changing. So please give a warm welcome to Bjorn Sunset. Thank you and good morning. I was asked to set the stage for today's events. And if climate change was indeed a stage play and not hardcore reality, the point we're at would be a very dramatic one. It would be one of the points in the play where we really rack up the tension, where the audience really feels that something is going on and the actors of the play haven't realized the seriousness yet. We of course have been monitoring from the science side climate change for a long time and we still are. And this monitoring is revealing some dramatic facts that climate change itself currently seems to be changing. One of the changes is that the human impacts or so the impacts of human induced climate change are becoming clearer to us yearbyear. Not just because we're looking harder, but because we're feeling them more acutely. For a long time, climate change has been real and dramatic, but still its changes have been on par with ve weather variations. This is no longer the case as is evident from all the natural disasters natural disasters that are fueled by climate change that we keep seeing yearby year. We can take examples the 2022 flood in Pakistan which was started by a heat wave made worse by climate change. Then came um um uh the monsoon season which was also more intense by climate change made more intense by climate change and the combination of these two led to about a tenth of the country falling underwater with long-term consequences. You do not clean up something like that overnight. 2023 we had the historically strong fires of Canada with local effects but also with long ranging effects across the Arctic. And this fire is only one of many examples of fires in the Arctic. The Arctic is burning. 2024 we had the unprecedented floods in Valencia with their catastrophic impacts. One of the reasons that the impacts of the Valencia flood became as bad as they were is that the local authorities did not really believe it could get that bad until it was too late. The same story unfortunately was repeated in 2025 in Texas. But I'll take another example which hasn't reached at least the Norwegian news as quite as much and that is a series of glacier collapses in Nepal and surrounding regions with ensuing floods and massive massive damages. All these are but examples of na events with major consequences that we now know have been made worse, more intense and more frequent by by climate change. This is where science takes us. This is an example of an overview from um the grouping, the UK grouping called World Weather Attribution, which routinely tracks all these major events, picks out the most damaging ones and checks what does science say about this particular event. And everywhere you see a red dot, there was a catastrophic damaging event in 2024 that was made worse by climate change. Everywhere you see a blue dot, there was an event that was made less likely by climate change. And those of you with sharp eyes will see that one of the few blue dots is here where we're standing. That was a cold winter. So those of you who remember the cold winter of early 24, remember that one because you will be seeing less of it. But the real drama is not necessarily the extreme events themselves. We are learning about those. We are learning to adapt to them. The drama lies behind because what is driving these extreme events is of course global warming. The fact that the earth is getting warmer, the surface is getting warmer, the climate is getting more extreme, there is more precipitation. So the question becomes what is happening to global warming? Maybe the most important graph of this century is this one. This is global warming from 1850 until today. It's probably the one graph you've seen. If you've seen one graph from climate science, you see all the wiggles from year to year. You see that not a lot happened from 1850 up until about 1920 or so. But then things kick off. And if like me, you've been alive since sometime in the 1970s, you have lived through a situation with constant steady global warming on average for every year throughout the lifetimes of just about everyone in this room. This constant evolution has been steady enough that when the IPCC made its one and a half degree report in 2028, their assessment of when we would hit 1.5 degrees was made just by drawing a straight line which was well justified. However, since 2018 and somewhat before, global warming has been speeding up. And if you're honest from the natural science side, we do not fully know why. There is a quite intense activity now in understanding why the most recent years have been not just record warm, but record warm to a record degree. This is the um usual red picture that the uh newspapers pull up showing the temperature anomaly from a certain baseline in 2024. You can essentially see that it's all red. There are no blue areas. The whole world has warmed. We know this. But what we don't know is why it got quite as warm. And there's quite a lot of interesting discussion around that which we need to learn from because our concern here is of course what will happen into the future. So one thing that has got a lot of attention was the fact that in 2020 um something really positive happened that the international maritime organization mandated that sulfur should no longer be a part of shipping fuels. That is excellent. But it also means that um the sulfur or the process that happens after you emit sulfur stopped. What is this process? Not something you usually think about. Well, it's chemistry in the atmosphere. You emit sulfur. It gets up in the atmosphere and it forms particles and these small particles reflect sunlight. So, the shipping fuel contributed to cooling the Earth somewhat, a little bit. This particular change has gotten a lot of attention. We now believe it is not the major contributor to the fact that the last few years have been very warm, but it still gets a lot of attention and we still need to focus on it. Something else that has happened though over about the same time scale is that the same has actually happened in China. Air pollution is a major concern across the world and in all industrial regions. Many industrial regions have worked hard to remove air pollution and have gotten far uh in the uh Europe in Europe and in the US there isn't all that much air pollution left. However, in Asia, in particular in South and East Asia, there has for many decades been a strong growth in air pollution. That air pollution has also been cooling the earth. So, we've had quite strong cooling from our own pollution. Now, China about 10-15 years ago decided to do something about this. And when China decides to do something, they are efficient. So, they really succeeded. So about 80% of the sulfur from Chinese coal fire power plants and other factories and road traffic has disappeared over this time scale. So it shows that or we we we've been able to show we and other scientists that this has actually contributed to speeding up global warming over the last 10 to 15 years. Now that's of course a little bit dramatic because you remove one negative effect and you get another. On the other hand, it also means that this was a temporary growth in the speed of global warming. That is potentially positive. However, there are other things happening now that we've warmed the earth, of course, or we are warming the earth. The earth is responding. One of these things I showed you already. It is the fires in the Arctic. Canada in 23 was one example, but there are many of these fires also in more remote regions like Siberia, like the in of Siberia that we don't look as much into. The smoke across the Arctic is now such that we can easily see it from satellites. We can easily see it from monitoring and it is affecting the whole Arctic region. This is one of the feedbacks that is rapidly happening as part of climate change. Another feedback that rarely crosses our minds is what's going on far out in the Pacific. I'm willing to bet that nobody here pays much attention to the goings on in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. However, we we scientists do and we're seeing changes in the cloud cover over the Pacific, most likely in response to the world warming. Now, when the clouds disappear or change, that will also change the rate of global warming. So these things are important and we need to monitor these things. Unfortunately, the country that has been doing a lot of the monitoring, the US, has now partially decided to turn off some of its monitoring program for various political reasons. And this is a dramatic loss in our capacity to continue to track these detailed developments that we need to know in order to give you the message of what's going on into the future. But of course the main effect is the fact that we are still setting records in CO2 emissions every year. This is and will continue to be the main cause of warming. Let us not change this fact or or um get away from from this fact. And the more we warm the earth, the more questions appear because we do not know what will happen to the earth as it warms. We have never performed this experiment before. We are in unknown territory as I know we will hear more about later on today. Of course, however, we are able to give projections and the most important projection now is that regardless of our emission changes today, we are still looking at several decades of rapid global warming. That is a depressing message, but it is an important message. is however not the only message. What happens after that is significantly impacted by our decisions today. So do not think that our decisions do not matter. It's just that they matter in the longer term. So the second kind of most important graph of this century would be this one. It's a few years old now, but it's still relevant. It's from the last IPCC report and shows what will happen to global temperature into the future. So the bit I've shown you already is the black part. That's the historical temperature change. And what will happen into the future depends on our emissions. The dark lines show futures with high CO2 emissions. The blue lines show uh futures with low CO2 emissions. We know this. The more we cut the lower we can make global warming into the future. But the important bit is really what for me now for us now is what happens over the next 20 years. There is very little change, very little difference between these lines over the coming 20 years. And in particular in a situation like now where global warming is progressing more rapidly than before. And that brings us back to where I started because these events are unfortunately only the beginning and they're only part of the symptom. We already heard examples of all the other consequences of climate change on food production, on health, on migration, on all these kind of things. So with climate change progressing rapidly, the most important message we have now except cut emissions as rapidly as we can is that whatever we plan, be it industrial, be it societal, be it for your own family, we must plan for a climate that is much warmer, much wetter, and much wilder than today. because that is what we will get regardless. If we do this, we can adapt. This is of course where it gets complicated and you get graphs like this one which shows an unadapted world to the left and an adapted world to the right and you can bring this one home with you and study it in detail. The point is we need to cut emissions but at the same time we need to plan for a future with a wilder climate because climate change is getting stronger. It will become stronger and it is not going away. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much Bren. You have really made clear the gravity of the situation and now both I and you all are asking yourself the question so what does this mean for the economy? And that's where we move on to our next speaker uh to tell us more about the impacts the economic impacts of climate change. We are honored to welcome Professor Solomon Young from Stanford University. He is a pioneering scholar who has fundamentally shaped how we understand climate economics. And as co-founder of the climate impact lab and the first chief environmental economist at the White House, Professor Young has also bridged academic research and realworld policy uh impacts. And for us here at Noguspank, his work has been particularly valuable in the area of investment management where he has been a trusted partner for uh for years. So, Professor Xang, welcome to the stage. Thank you so much for having me. Uh, I flew in yesterday from eight time zones away, but Bjorn, that was brilliant, and now I'm wide awake. Um, so I want to talk to you about how we think about what the macroeconomic implications of these dramatic changes to the planet might mean. So here's a graph where on the top you see countries sort of positioned based on where their temperatures might be in the future and where their distribution of historical temperatures have been in the past. And so what you can do with this graph is you can make vertical comparisons and see for example that in the future we expect the temperature of Norway to look more analogous to what we see in Germany today. We also expect in the future Indonesia will look more like Sudan. And then quite importantly, we expect that Sudan will look like nothing we've ever seen before. So how do we understand what this shift, seemingly simple shift in the distribution might mean for the global economy? So the thing I would love to do is the sort of science fair version of the experiment where I take two planets and I heat up one of them and I look after the fact to understand what the economies of the two look like. That's obviously a difficult experiment to run. So what we do instead is something that's like a natural experiment, a quasi experiment where we follow populations over time and as they experience different climates, we observe what their economy does in response. And so just to give you an example, consider hurricanes. Now I know this is not something you think about as much in Norway here as we do in the United States. Uh this is an image of at the night of an image at night of hurricane Ivan bearing down on the US coastline. So when we try to understand the effect of hurricanes, one thing we do is we first build a physical model of the storms themselves. So this is what we call a wind field and it describes the intensity of winds within one of these storms and then you can take this and you can match it to the historical record and try to rebuild the historical experience of different countries as this particular storm, in this case one that was happening in the 70s, uh passes over a location. And the colors here are showing you what the populations in the storm might experience as it passes overhead. So we can rebuild all the storms in the historical record. This is a single year. There's about a hundred of these storms on the planet in any given year. And then we can rebuild many different years. So then we can use this variation to understand these storms are basically beating up on the global economy and try to understand what different countries are doing in response. So people before we had done this type of analysis had had different theories about how countries might respond to these types of extreme disasters. So here on the x-axis you see time and on the y- axis is sort of GDP. So the top line here is labeled sort of a creative destruction idea. It's a theory that maybe these events kind of jostle society. They change the economy. Maybe uh Bart and I, you know, some trees fall down in our yard. We work together to clear them and we realize through that work that we have business interests together and we do something new. So actually sort of a little bit of pertabbation could be stimulating for the economy. Another theory is this build back be better notion. Maybe we don't replenish the capital in the economy at the efficient rate and so a storm comes through it clears out some old capital. We rebuild and that's new capital that's better. That's kind of like I had this really old phone and it was outdated and very slow. It was bugging me and then I dropped it. It broke. I bought a new phone and I was like oh why didn't I buy a new phone earlier? Right? That's like I should have updated my capital earlier. The third idea here is this recovery to trend. Maybe really what matters is the frontier of global technology. And so as the global frontier moves forward, countries will just catch up to that frontier over time. And the fourth hypothesis is that there's no recovery. Getting hit by a disaster like this is essentially the same as moving backwards in time for an economy. You destroy capital and we simply just have to rebuild it again. When you look at thousands of storms around the world, what we see is that this no recovery hypothesis is actually what we see what occurs to most countries. So over the course of 20 years after a hurricane, we see that the economy declines relative to trend somewhat slowly and never recovers. What does this mean for some of our new experiences that we are having in this unprecedented new normal? So, here's a map that we put together in the week after Hurricane Maria struck Puerto Rico in the United States. I apologize for the units here. Uh, what happened during this storm was unprecedented in the Atlantic. The average wind speed of a randomly selected location anywhere in this territory was 200 kmh. So, to get a sense of scale of what that means, I tell people to imagine driving 200 kilometers per hour. Maybe you haven't done that. You stick your hand out the window of your car. You feel that pressure on your arm. Now imagine getting out and standing on the hood of your car. Okay, that is what happened to the entire territory on average. When we match those types of calculations to our estimates, what we think is that in the course of 12 hours, Puerto Rico basically reversed a quarter century of economic development. And sort of these projections which came out early on seem to have been borne out on the ground. One point we also make with this graph is that the scale of these disasters is comparable to other type of financial crises that we in this room often talk about maybe with a bit more attention. So now to think about other effects of climate change besides hurricanes. There's many of them. There's impacts on human health, on sea level rise, on people's sleep. Okay, I I'm not going to be able to talk through all of them today, but what I want to do is focus your attention on something that is very simple, but seems to be from the data to be extremely important for the world. So, you know, many things in the world change when the temperature changes. This is, you know, in the ' 40s, uh, Charles Mworth did a whole bunch of really interesting studies for the British military. He was a British military researcher. They were sending troops to to hot countries and he wanted to understand what the effect was on their productivity. So here's an experiment where he just took soldiers, sat them at a table, and they were forced to do arm curls until they collapsed on the floor. Okay? And so this is a graph what you see where the x-axis is the temperature of the room, which they experimentally manipulate, and the y-axis is how many arm curls they could do. Okay? And what you see is as the temperature increases, the soldiers are collapsing uh at an earlier and earlier moment in time. We see this in modern data when we look at different types of outcomes. And so on one side here you're looking at the productivity of an individual corn plant. You can think of that as a unit of capital or on the other side you can think of it as you can look at the productivity or whether or not people show up to work uh in the labor market. And what we see in a variety of contexts is that as temperatures increase productivity might increase somewhat slightly but at some critical threshold productivity of most units in the economy tanks and becomes much lower. Now when you have many different fundamental units of the economy that are all undergoing the similar process, what you end up with when you aggregate the data is that the productivity over the overall macroeconomy follows this type of curve. Okay? And so what you have here is on the x-axis the average temperature of a country and on the y-axis output in of GDP. What we see is that as temperatures increase, productivity tends to increase. Sometimes it's actually a little flatter in some newer studies. And then at around 15 to 13 degrees Celsius, it peaks and then begins to decline. And the slope of the decline here is about one to one and a half percent per degree Celsius. This curve, if you don't remember anything else from this talk, this curve probably after 15 years of research, I've decided that this curve probably has more to do with the structure of the future global economy than anything else we've looked at. What is the implication of this curve? So well, first of all, you can ask, are we adapting? You know, the world is like we have a lot of technology. It's very sophisticated. Have things changed? Are we figuring out how to cope with temperature more effectively? The answer is no. We find no evidence that the global economy is changing and how responsive it is to average temperatures. You can look over time and what we see today is the same thing we saw in the 60s. You can also look around the world at different types of data sets. Whether you look at a very wealthy country like the United States, whether you look at China, rapidly developing, whether you look at India, Brazil, hundreds of household surveys done by the World Bank, we see essentially the same shape over and over again. You can also ask, well, what happens if I were to just look within countries and do something that's almost like that first experiment I told you about and look at the parts of the countries that are heating up faster historically versus heating up less quickly. So here what I'm showing you is you know the 10th the top 10% of uh locations actually the bottom 10% of locations in India in terms of how quickly they are warming up. So they are warming up the most slowly. They're the coolest locations in India over the last couple decades. And if you compare them to the locations in India that have been warming more quickly what you see is a wedge is already emerging and that historically over the last couple decades the places that are warming quicker are now growing slower. This type of relationship shows up in other emerging economies around the world. So this is the last several decades we can see this type of experiment already unfolding. You can also ask what are the implications for wealthier economies that we've seen over the last couple decades. So here what we've done is we're looking at Europe and the United States and we're essentially trying to remove the effect of historical warming and simulate what the economies would have done had we not already experienced several decades of climate change. When you compare that to what has actually been the output of these economies over time, what you see is that there actually is a substantial wedge that's already occurring and the numbers are quite large because the scale of these economies are so significant. So we estimate that over the last several decades, we've already foregone several trillion dollars in income because of warming that has already occurred to date. Now, one idea that is baked into the Paris agreement is this notion of loss and damage, which is this idea that the economies that have been emitting carbon or other greenhouse gases might be held accountable for the damage it has imposed on other countries. So if you do the type of exercise I was just showing you and compute how much income a country like the United States has caused other countries to lose through the channel of its emissions, we estimate that for example the United States with a great degree of uncertainty might have imposed roughly 10 trillion dollars of losses around the world if you add it all up. Okay. Okay. So everything I've shown you so far is just about the past climate change that has already occurred. But what about the future? So here's a graph. where on the x- axis is temperature, the dots are countries, and the height of the dots is just the GDP growth projection and kind of a run-of-the-mill economic model. So, it's like 2% growth around the world on average over the next century. And if you were to impose climate change on these countries, what you see is a depression of growth rates. And the depression is larger for hotter countries because they're on that downward sloping side of that curve. uh if you were to roll that forward and ask what does that mean for what the structure of the global economy looks like in the future you over and over see maps that have this basic structure where throughout the tropics and the subtropics you have large economic impacts and then at higher latitudes you might have smaller impacts in some cases positive impacts and I realized just now that this is a slightly older figure that makes things look pretty good for Europe but once we've actually updated 10 more years of data it doesn't quite look so good anymore. When we take this and we think about what this means in terms of, you know, what are the implications, there's really three takeaways that you can kind of remember. So, first of all, when you add up global output and ask what are the implications for world GDP, we see a decline. And that there's a great deal of uncertainty, but it's to the tune of 20 to 40% of GDP depending on the different types of models people use. Now, that's a central estimate. The other thing you see is that there's a great deal of spread, tremendous uncertainty in what the effect of climate change will be on the global economy. And you know, I point out to folks that that should be thought of as an additional type of cost. We as a society do not like uncertainty. And by creating all this new uncertainty for ourselves, we are imposing a great deal of uh great a great cost on ourselves going forward. The third point is that because the tropical regions and that subtropical regions that have the greatest impact on their macroeconomy are today also the poorer regions of the world. We generate graphs that look like this where the poorer twothirds of the world are experiencing climate change with much more intensity, much greater macroeconomic impact. So that you have this divergence in the future that emerges as a result of warming. So in my last example, what I want to do is talk about some of the uh more subtle sorry some of the more extreme implications of what this might mean. So we have begun to start asking the question uh could this lead to the m material risk of so societies breaking down and to think about that what we've done is we've focused on in this case Africa and ask the question could this push countries sort of over a cliff beyond which it becomes extremely difficult to recover. So on this graph, what I'm showing you on the y-axis is GDP growth. Positive is good, negative is bad. And on the horizontal axis, we're looking at civil conflict risk. Could it be the case that declines in the macroeconomy lead to political instability, which in turn then feedback on the macroeconomy make growth more difficult, which then leads to sort of this downward spiral in which countries have difficulty recovering. So the concern is that some countries might move into a position where they have persistent negative growth, economic decline and much higher rates of political instability and conflict. So this is a heristic. When we look at the data and try to calibrate a model and make a projection going forward, what we see is that throughout Africa, there are some countries that will that have been extremely productive historically and warming will make them grow slower. But that is not enough to really push them over the edge. However, the the concern is that there are many countries in Africa that are sort of on the cusp where warming is expected to reduce output to the point where it might amplify conflict risk and then push them into this bad stable equilibrium where essentially conflict risk and macro bad macroeconomic performance lead to a persistent bad outcome that is hard to escape. Part of our work has been trying to understand the scale of this risk. And what we see is that for a substantial fraction of countries in Africa, the risk of persistent economic decline increases by roughly 25% due to sort of business asusual scenarios. We think that this is a major risk and a lot of our new work is trying to focus on this type of question. So to wrap up, I want to leave you with a few sort of straightforward take-home messages. The first is that the evidence is very clear that high temperatures and in tropical cyclones that I've shown you slow GDP growth. The effective temperature is highly nonlinear and this is very important for the structure of the global income distribution in the future. Historically we see no evidence of adaptation. Okay, we do probably all adapt in our personal lives but in aggregate that has not been enough to move the dial. And recent warming over the last several decades has already substantially slowed growth to the tune of tens of trillions of dollars worldwide. By 2100, we project that every one degree of warming will lead to a reduction of global GDP by roughly 10%. That's sort of like a benchmark number you can hold in your mind. And we have real concerns now that sort of the coupling of macroeconomic decline and political instability could be really disastrous for certain economies in the world that are at particularly high risk. Finally, the last point which I haven't talked too much about is that there's this idea of the social cost of carbon which is if we try to compute a single number that represents the overall economic harm to the global economy as a result of the emission of one ton of CO2, what would that number be? And based on these various new macroeconomic calculations and other work in the room here, uh, new estimates are suggesting that just through the channel of the effects on GDP, these costs amount to roughly 1,000 to 2,000 US per ton of CO2 with some substantial uncertainty. So with that, I want to just leave you with this sort of image like this is very similar to that experiment I laid out at the beginning. Here the colors are reflecting the temperatures in two different projections. one in which we have high mitigation, one in which it's sort of business as usual emissions. But what I've done to the image is I've taken the nightlights, which we tend to think reflect economic activity, and I've turned them up or down to reflect what our projections of global output might look like in those two different scenarios. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. What a presentation. Fast-paced and thick on content. And I think over and above the big numbers that speak to the importance of what could be gained fixing the issue, I will also take with me the distribution of those uh those bad outcomes and they speak to how difficult it is to actually cooperate on fixing it. Now um now that we have covered consequences uh of climate change globally, we will uh shift our focus and have a look at what happens closer to home. Are we seeing any impacts already here uh in Norway and we are fortunate to have uh Amelia Garcia Aendini here today. She's an associate professor at the University of St. Allen, faculty member at the Swiss Finance Institute and also an affiliated researcher uh with with us here at Nogisbunk for some years now. So together with uh other colleagues here at the bank, she has explored how extreme weather events uh already now affect Norwegian households and will present to us uh these findings. So Amelia, please take the floor. [Applause]
>> So thank you very much. Um so it's a great honor for me to be standing here on this stage to talk to you about the research that I've conducted together with my dear colleagues at Norgis Bank Carolyn Espigrin as well as Secret Galassan and Matis Melum. So um let me start the presentation with a personal note. So when I tell people that I'm working on a paper that is estimating the impacts of natural disasters on the Norwegian economy, the reaction that I often get is, "Oh, are there natural disasters in Norway? Uh especially from my friends from southern uh Europe, I get this reaction." So there seems to be this perception that Norway is pretty much shielded from the worst effects of climate change. Um, of course we know this is not true as shown by this image which was taken after extreme weather hands hit Norway. Now uh the projection from the IPCC suggests that such events are going to be much more likely in in the future as well as we can expect also having u sea level rise and other other things in Norway. So we started off this project um trying to figure out what the the recent trends have been. So have we started observing already now that such events like these are more frequent and um for this purpose we rely on detailed data on insurance payments insurance payouts from finance Norway and well you may know that actually insurance in in Norway is very particular. So every asset, so every home or also every machine that is insured against fire is going to be automatically insured also against extreme weather events. The premiums are very small. They are the same for everybody and if a person gets hit by a natural disaster um they will have to pay only a very small deductible. So um this this data provides very unbiased data very unbiased data on what the prevalence of natural disasters has been. So this is what we found. So these are uh in US dollars and deflated amounts. So we see that the payouts have increased enormously over the time. And if we think about the number of Norwegian municipalities that have been hit by especially strong uh events like this that has also increased over time. So we define strong events as those that cause that for which payouts insurance payouts are at least 5% of the local income. So that is uh that is a lot. So we next went to the main part of our analysis. So which is to ask a question what are the e economic impacts of these events on the Norwegian households. Now for this um we took the insurance payouts data which from which we got information about where these municipalities are that were hit at some point in time from an extreme weather event. So those are the red municipalities in this map. And then we combined this data with very detailed anonymized information on the characteristics of the households that are living in those municipalities. And then from other municipalities, similar municipalities in Norway, we try to find the most similar households in Norway um that are comparable to those households that were living in those uh affected areas. So through this comparison what we can do is to follow the trends on in households income their wealth and their consumption before and after the disaster. Now precisely because the insurance in Norway is universal people are going to be paid back for the direct damages of the extreme weather events. So what we are estimating and what I will show you the results are basically the indirect impacts of these extreme weather events um due to broader repercussions of the extreme weather on the Norwegian economy. So let me walk you through the results. So this is a graph um of the income. It shows the difference in the income of households and um that those that were affected relative that those to those that were not affected. So to the left of the vertical line you have the trends over the four years previous to the to the disaster. And as you can see the black line is pretty much oscillating around zero. And this is by design because we chose to compare income uh with very similar households that were not affected. Now of course after the disaster we found that there was a sharp decrease in the income. So cumulatively the decrease was about $720 US. Um then we zoomed in a little bit closer on these data and we found that this result which is for income after taxes was basically driven by income uh from labor labor income. Now the picture is similarly negative for wealth. So we we found that after the disaster, Norwegians that were affected by the by by the events, extreme events, saw a loss in their wealth in the two years after the disaster of about 13,000 US. We also found that this result comes from a decrease in the housing wealth of the Norwegians, which is most likely due to a drop in the housing prices in the local area. So neighborhoods that have been hit by a disaster are not very nice to live in anymore. So the prices go down. Finally, we also have transaction data from debit cards um of the Norwegians and we could also compare that the the consumption therefore of Norwegians that were affected versus those were not affected. And we see that the fall in consumption is um also notable and it's about twice as large as the fall in income. So 100461,460 US over the three years after the disaster. Okay. And this is probably an over an underestimate of the true impact of on consumption because at least one part of this consumption was used to repair and replace the assets that were that that were damaged and that were then reimbursed by the insurance company. So we then we next asked why do we find these results? Why if Norwegians are completely um insured against the direct effects why do we find these this fall in income in wealth and so on? So because we have such detailed data and so many events in our sample, we can actually compare those events for which firms in the local economy were particularly hard hit with events where the uh the natural disaster hit mostly households. And we found that the impacts on income um are much stronger as you can see on the left hand side uh of this graph for events where firms were particularly hit. So this seems to suggest that the drop in income that we observed was due to firms having to close maybe temporarily or people not being able to go to to work which affected their labor income. Then we explored um also differences across Norwegian households that own a home and those that do not. So renters. So on the left hand side of each of these graphs you see the impact on wealth on the middle and on the right on consumption for homeowners and on the right hand side you see that impacts for for renters. And as you can see the impact on wealth is much more negative and statistically significant only for homeowners as well as then the same is true for consumption. So this seems to suggest that the lower housing prices are amplifying these impacts on uh on consumption. So this leads me to the end of my presentation. So we I have I I have uh shown you three main takeaways uh from from our research. So the first one is that already today extreme weather events are becoming more frequent and more costly even in Norway. The second main result is that well despite the fact that Norwegians are fortunate enough to be uh insured against the worst impacts of climate change about the direct impacts of of such extreme weather events. Affected households are seeing a strong and also persistent uh decline in their income, their wealth and their consumption. So you saw from those graphs how these declines incomes did not recover even after 3 years after the event. And finally, given the richness of the administrative data that we uh can access in Norway, we also could shed some light on the mechanisms that drive these decreases in the income and wealth and consumption of the affected households. And we saw that when firms so the local economy is particularly hit that is going to hit the individual's income and through possibly through uh housing prices consumption of Norwegians is going to fall. So thank you very much. [Applause] Thank you and thank you very much for uh and thanks to all of you for your brilliant contributions. You have given us a lot to think about. Uh and now there will be a break that will allow you all not just to get a few refreshments as you can see they've been served over there but also to share your reflections uh together. So we will resume here at 10:30 sharp. [Applause] [Music] [Music] Welcome back everyone. I have the pleasure of guiding you through this second session. The first session covered climate change itself and the macroeconomic impacts. In this session, our focus shifts to the energy transition needed to mitigate climate change. And our first speaker will elaborate on the macroeconomic impacts of climate policies. It is my pleasure to introduce Diego Kenzich, a rising star in the fields of climate economics. Kenzich is an assistant professor at Northwestern University and a leading researcher in macroeconomics, climate economics, and monetary policy. Please join me in welcoming Diego Genses. [Applause] With all the things that are going on these days, it's sometimes easy to forget that climate change is still happening. So, I wanted to thank Noris Bank and the Sovereign Wealth Fund for giving this platform to talk about this important topic and thank you all in the audience and online for being here today uh and engaging with us. I'm very excited to be here to talk about the macroeconomic impacts of climate policies. Climate change is probably the defining problem of our time leading to devastating risks to our lives like livelihoods and also the global economy. And in the first session, Saul Amelia Dave illustrated the potentially devastating consequences that climate change may bring at the global and at the local level. So what can we do to confront this climate challenge? As economists, we know how to solve the problem in principle, right? We have to put a price on carbon. In this way, we make emitters internalize the costs that are associated with producing emissions. In practice, it has proven to be a little bit more difficult because especially at the global level, it's very hard to make progress because it requires coordination among many countries with very different interests. Much more progress has been made at the national or in some cases the regional level with a growing number of jurisdictions having implemented carbon pricing policies either in the form of carbon markets, carbon taxes or alternative policy instruments and this is illustrated in this map. So here you can see basically a map of the globe with the countries that have already implemented some form of car pricing instruments and you can see that to this day over a 100 such instruments have been implemented in 55 jurisdictions. So this is great. There is visible progress across the world. A key question is though how effective are these national policies at reducing emissions and also thinking about the economic consequences because the worry may be this is a national policy so maybe some of the emissions some of the economic activity may shift to other places in the world that have still less stringent climate policies in place. So these are the questions that are going to guide my talk here and I'm organizing them along these three guiding research questions. So the first one is are these national carbon pricing policies effective at reducing emissions? What are their impacts on the macroeconomy? How do they affect output, employment, and inflation? And lastly, what are the distributional consequences of these policies? because that's particularly important when we think about the sustainability of these policies in a democracy. We require public support to achieve a successful transition. The traditional approach to answer these questions is through the lens of computable general equilibrium models. Now that sounds a bit whimsical, but essentially it's just a set of assumptions on how markets work, on how firms and consumers behave. And if you calibrate this economy, we can do simulations to be able to answer these questions that I just laid out. So what do we learn from this more theoretical literature about these questions? Yes, these national policies, they can be effective at reducing emissions if leakage is prevented to a significant extent. Turning to the economic effects, there are some macroeconomic costs, but they tend to be small to moderate at best. And finally, regarding the distributional impacts, these policies can be somewhat regressive, but because the energy expenditure share of households and firms tends to be rather low, these distributional effects are not that large. Now, this is what the models say. With over 20 years worth of experience with carbon pricing policies in certain jurisdictions, we can also have a look at the data and ask, okay, what are the answers that the data provides to these questions? And today I'm going to provide you some evidence based on the experience with the European emissions trading scheme which is uh the largest carbon market in the world. And this is based uh some of my own based on some of my own research. Now answering the question of how carbon prices affect emissions affect the economy that's a very challenging task and that's because carbon prices are not set in a vacuum. Policy makers they respond to economic conditions when deciding on their climate policies. So if there is if there is a recession maybe they tune down their climate policy stance a little bit. Another issue is confounding factors. Right? At the same time where there is a change in carbon taxes, there may be another macroeconomic shock, an oil price shock, and we may misattribute the consequences of the policy of the shock to that policy. So, it's important to get that right empirically. In a carbon market, this is an even more daunting task because there we have market prices. It's not like a text that is maybe revised every other year. like every day traders trade these allowances and prices change in response to demand and supply factors and that's what I illustrate here in this chart. So here you can see the evolution of the carbon price in the European carbon market from 2005 when the market was established to 2019. And you can see large swings in this price. Some of which were driven by policy changes other were driven by demand. For instance, after the global financial crisis, this sharp fall in the price was largely driven by demand factors. Fortunately, at least that's what I've come to realize in my research. There is ways to approach this identification challenge and it exploits institutional features of this carbon market. So the European emissions trading scheme is a cap and trade system. So unlike a carbon tax which directly regulates the price, it regulates the quantity. So there is a cap on overall emissions covered by the market and within this cap allowances are allocated and then traded therefore effectively establishing a market price. At the same time there are financial markets. So there exist pretty liquid futures markets where these allowances are traded. So we have information on price development at a high frequency that we can exploit. The second factor that will come in handy is that establishing this carbon market this didn't happen overnight. It was more of a learning by doing process and the regulations in this market have changed considerably over time. This is exactly what's going to help me to address this identification problem. In particular, the idea is to isolate some variation in the current price that is plausibly exogenous by looking at price changes in a narrow window around policy events concerning the supply or allocation of emission allowances. And the idea is to the extent that the economic outlook is already priced in this market before the announcement, the change in the current price will basically reflect the policy news. So for those not that familiar with this markets, let me take a step back and let me tell you a bit more about this market work. So this European carbon market, it was established in 2005. It covers around 40% of total EU greenhouse gas emissions. Again, it's a tra cap and trade system. So there is a cap on total emissions that are covered by the system. And to ensure that emissions fall over time, this cap is reduced at a certain rate every year. Within this cap, emission allowances are allocated. And there are different ways of doing so. In particular, during the first years of this market, most of the allowances they were allocated for free. I guess this was just a politically feasible way to get this market going. Later on, auctioning became the default way of allocating these allowances. So firms has to purchase these allowances at an increasing rate in auctions. And finally there is also the option of international credits. So these are similar to offset that firms can use to a limited extent uh to cover for their emissions. And the idea is that maybe cheaper in other places to abate than in Europe and we want to make use of that companies at the end of every year that are covered by this market must surrender sufficient emission allowances to cover their yearly emissions. And this is enforced with heavy fines. So compliance is almost perfect in this market. And again as I mentioned these allowances are traded on secondary markets in particular spot and futures markets which we're going to focus on today. So in the next step I went to the books. I looked at the official journal of the European Union and European Commission's climate news archive and I collected a comprehensive list of regulatory update events in this market. So these can take the form of decisions of the European Commission, votes of the European Parliament or judgments by European courts. And of key interests in this research are regulatory news concerning the supply or allocation of emission allowances. And again, some of these may be related to the free allocation of allowances. So in the first years countries uh that are part of this market had to submit national allocation plans and sometimes the commission was not happy with them and and sometimes there were legal conflicts. So there are a lot of events concerning these national allocation plans. Later on when auctioning became the default way of allocating these allowances there are lots of events regarding the timing and quantities of allowances to be auctioned off and there are also some events regarding the use of international credits. So in the end going through um these documents online I was able to identify around 100 over like 114 relevant events from 2005 to 2019 and based on these events I then looked how prices changed around them and this is basically what comes out. So here you can see these these policy surprises around these regulatory policy events and you can see some of these events led to quite significant changes in carbon prices. So this is expressed relative to wholesale electricity prices. So assuming a full pass through which some of the literature has found to be pretty accurate. We see that some of these events moved wholesale electricity prices in excess of 1%. And let me just to like make this a bit more tangible give you maybe an example of of a series of events that was pretty important in this market and it was related to this fact that after the global financial crisis emissions fell by a lot because the economy was not doing well. But this was not reflected in the way the caps were set right the caps were kept sort of pretty constant and therefore over time an overupp of allowances emerged weighing down on prices but the commission didn't like that so they wanted to address this by postponing by backloading the auctioning of new allowances so this happened the end of 2012 and then in April 2013 the European Parliament voted against this proposal and this sent prices down significantly and the concerns were very similar to also what we observe today in the public debate. They were worried, politicians were worried that higher carbon prices may hurt the still fragile European economy that was still recovering from the crisis. Only later on they agreed to a modified version of this backloading proposal paving the way for higher carbon pricing in Europe as we also observe them today. So in the second step we then use this variation as an instrument to estimate the effects of a carbon policy induced energy price shock and these are the estimated effects. So here you can see the dynamic effects of a shock that increases consumer energy prices by 1% on impact. So you can see this is a pretty significant and persistent effect on energy prices and it also leads to a substantial fall in greenhouse gas emissions. So these are total greenhouse gas emissions in Europe, not only those covered by the market where you would expect mechanically some decrease. So this is great news, right? So the policy appears to work, emissions fall because the price of emitting actually increases. But there are also macroeconomic consequences and this is what you can see in the second line. So you can see consumer prices overall consumer prices also increase to some extent around 0.2% uh and real GDP falls by around 0.25%. So these are non-negligible macroeconomic costs and based on these responses we can estimate one of the key parameters uh in um that that goes into cost benefit analysis of climate policies and that's the so-called marginal abatement cost. So that that captures how expensive it is to abate one additional ton of emissions and based on these responses we arrive at an estimate for the marginal abatement cost of around 17 per ton of CO2. Obviously, there is uncertainty around that. It's an estimate. But what's interesting here is that this is much higher than engineering estimates of this marginal baitment cost. And it's also much higher than the average ETS price in this carbon market that firms internalize which was around 12 over our sample. What does this show? This shows that market prices in this market do not necessarily internalize indirect effects that occur via energy prices, via employment and ultimately consumption. And these indirect these general equilibrium effects are important uh to basically get at the aggregate the economywide costs of decarbonization which may be higher than the costs that firm internalize. And again that's an important insight if we think about costbenefit analysis of climate change mitigation policies. Okay. So we talked about the impacts of carbon prices on the economy on emissions. Now let's talk about the distributional impacts because I think that's also a very very crucial aspect. So how do we do this? We study how carbon price shocks affect different households. And we're going to measure the effects on living standards by tracking how these shocks move key parts of households budget. In particular, we're going to look at how prices that households pay change after these shocks, how the income changes that they earn, and how the value of their saving and transfers they receive changes. And we will combine this channel to get a simple moneymetric measure of welfare loss. So this is sort of the amount of euros that households would be willing to pay to not experience the increase in carbon prices. And this is what we find. So here we can see two charts that basically show you this welfare loss by income and age groups and by regions and age groups. And what stands out here, I mean this is expressed not in euros but as a share of households consumption. And what's what stands out here is that it's younger households, it's poorer households that experience the largest welfare losses while older households in particular and also richer households to some extent appear to be more shielded from these policies. And why is that the case? Before I told you these distributional effects through the lens of our models, they're sort of moderate. Why do we find here such big effects? Because we here we also take into account the indirect effects via income and employment because these policies, they not only make uh the goods that you consume more expensive. They also have effects on labor markets. So your wages may fall uh or you may lose your job. And these risks are concentrated among lower income households. We can also look at the regional heterogeneity. So here you can see the welfare effects by regions and we see they're particularly concentrated in southern European countries and then Eastern European countries but especially in the south these effects are pretty substantial. And that may also be related to labor market regulations because if you have like more rigid labor markets, these indirect effects via income may be even more pronounced. Okay. Now, let me take a bit more of a long-term perspective because we we have seen that these these current pricing policies they're associated with shortrun costs but they also have long run gains. I mean one we already discussed they reduce emissions which is great which because this will help us to avoid future climate damages that we have discussed in the first session. Uh but another key motivation to uh introduce these policies is green innovation because that's what's going to allow us to sustain these emission reductions without curbing economic growth. Right? And it's intuitive to think if you if you increase the cost of emitting maybe this will encourage green innovation. But does this actually hold up in the data as well? Obviously it's hard to measure innovation. There is no perfect measure of innovation. One metric that many people are interested in is patenting. And patents are nice because we can classify them into patents that are green. So sort of climate change mitigation or adaptation patterns or or non-green other types of patents. And here you can see the response um of patenting activity in green technologies to such a carbon price shock. And we can see that the overall share of green patenting increases increases significantly and in increases in particular in industries such as energy, transportation and buildings. So this is great. This really shows that this policy helps maybe to uh to foster this technical change that we need to to make this transition work. But it may be not enough because here I show you energy and transportation and buildings. In other categories in particular related to adaptation, you say you see much less of a response. So I think this shows that maybe carbon pricing alone is not enough. We have to complement these policies maybe with innovation subsidies targeted to these specific technologies that are hard uh to make progress just uh via the emissions trading emissions trading scheme. Another long-term challenge and we touched upon this before is that to be able to make this transition a success we need public support. I mean we live in a democracy so uh the voters also have to be in on board and we have seen that this is a challenge time and time again. For instance the yellow west movement in France which started as an opposition against higher fuel taxes in the US the efforts to legislate cap and trade policies which in the end ultimately failed or in Canada more recently right where Mark Carney essentially abolished the national carbon tax for political reasons. Uh so this is definitely a concern that we have to take seriously and this is also backed up by the data because here I show you some evidence that in response to these current pricing shocks there is an increase in extremist vote share. So this is based on on regional electoral data in Europe. So an increase in extremist vshare and in euroskeptic vote share. So I think these are concerns that we have to take seriously if we want to make this transition work. All right. So now let's revisit these research questions that we started with. So based on our experience with like 20 plus years of EUS we have learned the following. So our national carbon pricing policies effective at reducing emissions. Yes we have seen that these current prices led to a substantial reduction in emissions. But when we look at the macroeconomic effects, we also saw that these come with uh non-negligible macroeconomic costs and these costs turn out to be unequally distributed across society with poorer households with younger households uh shouldering a larger a much larger share of the burden. So let me end with some policy implications. Um so I think this really shows that it's important to address the economic and distributional effects of these carbon pricing policies and we can do so. So in fact I I have some work obviously for that maybe it's it's hard to just do this with the data then you need a model to do sort of these policy counterfactuals but I have some work that shows if you use targeted transfers so you target the households that are more affected by most affected by the policy you can mitigate both the aggregate effects of the policy and the economy and also the distributional impacts. If you do this though, you may be worried that by by doing so, emissions may increase again, right? Because you sort of compensate these households that that may be driving some of these emission reductions and then they still emits more. But at least in that model, that's not necessarily the case because if you do this in a targeted way, you compensate households whose energy demand is particularly inelastic. I mean that's what you find that poor households, younger households, they I mean you have you sort of have to heat your home, you have to go to work and uh it's hard to change these types of behaviors. So redistribution does not need to undermine the emission reductions that you achieve with these type of policies. It's just important to design them in a clever way. Now obviously in practice it's very hard to legislate targeted transfers, right? Because it also has distributional implications. So you always have to communicate this in a way that is palatable to the voter. Maybe it's not possible. Maybe you can do a second best. Um but I do think this evidence just shows that you want to do some redistribution here. Currently in the EUS, there are no direct redistributive measures that compensate households most affected. And that's because these policies, they're paid for by the firms. But firms don't just swallow these costs. they increase their product prices which eventually um leads to the fact that households end up shouldering most of these costs. So I do think it's important to think about that and incorporate these indirect impacts when evaluating these policies. Let me also say here I don't want to trash the EUS. I think uh it's it's it's been a great success in reducing emissions and like thinking about it even without these offsetting measures that could make it even a better policy. It is still optimal for Europe to decarbonize at least according to recent estimates of the other side of this costbenefit analysis of climate policy. That is the social or maybe more relevant the domestic cost of carbon. So we have talked about the social cost of carbon. That's that's sort of the metric that policy makers are interested in because it it captures sort of the current and future discounted damages of emitting one additional ton of CO2. But policy makers in a given country, they may not be worried about the worldwide costs of climate change necessarily. I mean some of them may be across of the Atlantic. They're almost surely not. uh they're concerned uh with the domestic cost of carbon right these are the damages that are occurring in your own jurisdiction in your own country but according to recent estimates so this is based on some of my own work with Adrien Bilal at Stanford we find that even the domestic cost of carbon when you try to estimate these effects more comprehensively accounting for extremes like very much building on the excellent work that Saul uh and co-authors have done we find a domestic cost of carbon of around 200 euros per ton of CO2 too. Now remember what I told you about this marginal abatement costs. According to my estimates, this was around 100. So this domestic cost of carbon is significantly larger than that. So this implies it's still optimal to decarbonize. What I'm trying to convey here, there is ways to improve the policy further and maybe this trade-off could look even uh much clearer. The last part that I want to touch upon is about this issue of losing public support and that's really an issue that I think is important. The political economy of this problem is something that we as economists have to think harder about. And in that light, I think it's really important to also focus on how we communicate these policies. We always say, okay, it's a carbon tax. It's a cost to the households. But maybe we should communicate the benefits of the policy more because a tax creates revenues. Revenues could create money for society as a whole, right? And I think that was an issue with with some of these policies. Uh and some examples of how to do this. Well, in Switzerland, where I'm from, people are really really concerned about uh health care costs. They have been increasing a lot over the last decades. And so one thing that Switzerland did is to introduce a rebate on these health insurance premiums. And the rebate is specifically from the carbon tax. So each time you see sort of your medical bill, your insurance, medical insurance bill, you see, okay, that would be my premium. This is what the carbon tax like reduces it and and you see that sort of directly every month. I think that's nice. It could be even better, right? Maybe we could also learn a bit from policy makers uh in the US, right? I think they're they're the experts on this. So if you think about it, you could send out checks to households and say this is your carbon rebate. This is what the EUTS provided for you. And I think this will go a long way of overcoming these issues uh with uh public support for these policies. And with that, thank you very much. Thank you so much. That was truly remarkable. Now we are very pleased to welcome home one of Norway's most distinguished economists, Professor Bour Hashtra, who holds prominent positions at Stanford. He is one of the world's leading scholars in environmental economics through his influential work on climate coordination and international bargaining mechanisms. His research provides essential insights into the political economy challenges that lie at heart of effective climate action. Today he will talk about climate policy and the challenges it can create for energy markets. Bard Hashtra, the floor is yours. Thank you so much Governor Sior. Um it's a great to be here. So I want to start out with a traditional way of thinking about um climate policies. Uh namely that we typically we think about it as a free rider problem or economists would call it a prisoner dilemma game. Meaning that uh if you have a home country, you can have the choice between continuing emitting with as you call business as usual or we could go further and cutting emissions. And outside there are foreign countries who can do the same. If we are both all all of us continuing with business as usual, we are relatively unhappy because GDP might decline as we have learned. But not only because of that or because uh even if the Amazon forest burns down and the Arctic ice melts, GDP will increase but we would still be unhappy. So GDP would capture only a fraction of the unhappiness. But we are here because it's even worse to cut emissions if the foreigners are continuing with business as usual. Then we are paying a cost and we not getting really the benefit. We would be better off if you all cooperated to cut emissions. But you know man, if the foreigners cut emissions and we could continue as business as usual, that would rock. So therefore, no matter whether foreigners are cutting emissions or deciding to do business as usual, our best response at home would be to continue with business as usual. That is why this is a unique equilibrium of this game. Unless you think about ways to change the game to make it possible that we have an agreement among countries where emissions are cut. And I can trust you that have thought a lot about how we can sustain equilibria here. And in a couple of uh papers I have with Francisco Lansia and Allesio, we conclude that um to sustain an equilibrium where low emissions, it might be necessary that countries are investing a lot maybe overinvesting in green technologies, renewable energy so on to reduce the temptation to defect and got back to business as usual. So that temptation can be reduced if countries are investing more in environmentally friendly technologies which reduces the benefit of continuing to rely on fossil fuels. But the role of technology also implies that the prison dilemma game or this free rider problem problem game is not all. Another perspective is that we should think about it as a is a as a coordination game where we will have investments in green capital, renewably energy, abatement technologies if those investors anticipate that there will be a very ambitious environmental policy in the future making those investments profitable and more profitable than investing in alternative traditional sectors. So that is then an equilibrium and if the investors are doing that it will also be easier for policy makers to introduce ambitious polic environmental policies because they have support from the investors uh um and it will be possible and manageable for industry to deal with ambitious policies. So that is a selfinforcing equilibrium. The problem is that we start here with a relatively much capital that is sunk in traditional sectors which are relatively much bullying on fossil fuel energy and because of that it's difficult for policy makers to introduce environmental policies and ambitious policies. uh um and because of that policies investments are uh relatively traditional. So um so we might then be in what we call a green uh catch 22 that the world has not been able and that is part of the reason why the world has not been able to address climate change is because we are stuck in this brown trap where the firms will not invest in green uh or disinvest in polluting sectors unless there is political support for ambitious climate change policies making the switch profitable and but as long as the capital is sunk in polluting industries and voters are employed by these industries there is no political support for necessary reform. So the many example of this type of uh brown traps. Okay, there are many examples. One of them and what I will talk about a little bit now is the possibility of a fossil fuel trap which can can arise because renewables and fossil fuels are to some extent substitutes in the following sense. Investments in renewables will pay off if and only if the production of energy from fossil fuel is reduced because only then will they be willingness to pay for alternative technologies and alternative energy be sufficiently high. The problem is that fossil fuel production will continue as long as investments in renewables have not taken place. So another catch 22 and in and we have seen this um also empirically in a recent paper by two novel rates and two other quarters they find that they stud the gas boom in the US. So when the shale gas boom in the US started that coincided with an investment fall in green uh innovation. So patenting in greenation fell uh and probably partly because they those investors anticipated that with the shale gas boom it will be difficult to profit but the this paper also show that not only did renewables fall but also coal fell. Coal fell too. So, so more gas replaced coal and that leads to uh a possible dilemma because more natural gas can replace coal and coal has a larger maybe approximately twice the carbon content of natural gas. And this effect seems to be most important in the short term because in the short term it's difficult to change the amount and the capacity to produce renewable energy. the capacity to produce a re renewable energy that takes time to develop because it's an up andcoming industry. So in the short term more gas will replace coal but when gas when more gas is anticipated when investors today think that in 20 30 years from now there will be more natural gas then investments in re renewables can fall and so in the long term gas can replace renewables instead of coal. So this is something this possibility is something we study in a paper called the gas trap joint with Katinka Holzmark and forthcoming in one of the top journals in economics and here's what we find okay so you fix everything in the world like fix war peace conflict anything okay you hold that constant for a little bit I'm not going to change those things there are many reasons for why what we doing what we are now and now I change one thing. I will change the harm from climate change. Okay. Suppose that for having fixing everything else we are become more concerned with climate change. Then in the first best in an ideal world if you maximize social welfare what what you would uh do is that you would increase the tax on all kind of fossil fuel coal especially but also natural gas. So you would increase that tax and the consequence would be that uh there would be more investments in renewables and emissions would fall. That would that would be in an ideal world with so-called green taxes or PO taxes. Uh in fact you will get something similar in the so-called second best in the second best there suppose there is no glo there are coal producers out there which are not facing this tax. There are countries who are not introducing this policy. Okay. So even in that case if you can commit now to a policy 50 years from now you would still prefer u u the following. If the climate if you hold everything else con constant but you change the harm from climate change that will motivate a larger tax on gas and it will motivate and it will lead to more more renewables and a lower emissions but emissions would not be quite that low of course because the tax on coal. So the second best is still larger emissions. So that is if you can commit today to a policy 15 years from now. But what if you cannot commit and that's what we call the equilibrium. If you cannot commit well after those 50 years have gone, you will then introd do exactly the opposite. Okay? You will then have an incentive to do the following. Fixing everything else. If the climate change harm is larger, the tax on gas will be smaller. Consequently, the emissions will be higher. Exactly the reverse when this policy is anticipated. Exactly the reverse of what you are trying to achieve. So, let me now um talk a little bit about explanation for this and and and this holds quite generally. So I will just use a very simple stylist example to illustrate the intuition for how this can this can be so counterproductive. And to do that we start out with the demand curve for energy. Uh meaning that the lower is the price of energy the higher is the demand. But demand now can come from three different sources. Um in the short term you have a fixed amount of renewables uh or or energy coming from windmill solar renewables that's fixed in the short term and then you decide on natural gas which is uh something you can influence with the tax on gas and then you have a lot of uh rebels out there who are producing coal and those they are producing more coal if the price of energy is higher and together those three sources will add up to the total supply to meet the total demand meaning that there will be an equilibrium price and equilibrium quantity with coal, gas and renewables. And in this setting, suppose that you change how much gas you produce. If you change and increase how much gas you produce, you will do the following. You will shift out the total the gas uh uh um uh you will increase how much gas you produce. That will shift out the supply curve. It will lead to a lower price of energy because you're producing a lot of gas. So the price of energy will be lower and the consequence of that is that the coal producers will go down. Coal production will go down. You're squeezing out coal. You are squeezing out coal. In the short term, the stock of renewables is more or less given by past investments. So more gas will crowd out coal. Okay. Um which is exactly why uh we want to uh do this if the harm is increasing isol isolated. But in the long term in the long term even the stock of renewables is endogenous. Even that is determined by investors. And here suppose it's the cost of windmills or solar or nuclear for that matter is given by some constant K. Then in the long term there will be an equilibrium price where the amount of gas coal and renewables will sum up to the total uh supply which should meet be met by total demand. So that is what will happen in the long term when investments in renewables have time to um major and develop. So then so and in if in this context if the if the market anticipate that no it's not going to look like this the marginal harm for some reason is isolated is it becomes a higher bigger cost of uh uh climate change then that can if that motivates the gas production to be larger then it will look like this anticipating this investments in renewables will fall coal production will not be squeezed out so much. So in the more long term more gas will crowd out renewables and not coal and therefore you get more emissions. So so so that is why we call it the gas trap. The higher so so remember what we did we fixing everything else. If you look at a small change in one isolated thing namely the effect of climate change that will motivate if you cannot tie your hands if you are temp if you cannot commit that will motivate you to produce more fossil fuel that will because that will squeeze out coal but the anticipation of this is that renewables will fall and you can end up with more emissions. That is what we call a gas drop. And that is exactly what the opposite of what you would have done if you could have committed. If you can commit now to a policy 50 years from now, then as I mentioned before, you if the marginal harm increases a little bit, you would like to reduce um um um uh production of all kind of fossil fuel to leave the room for renewables. Um um um and that is exactly what the opposite what will happen if you cannot commit. Um but so if you cannot commit, you might look for ways to uh to influence your future decision and and that leads to the possibility that if the marginal harm of climate change increases and you cannot commit to future policies, then there can be a role for regulating search and exploration because that can limit long-term production quantities. uh and that in turn will strengthen the expectations that renewables will pay off and be profitable because after all this is a coordination game. We are um it's a coordination game. Um and this this is just one example. There are many other example uh of why climate policies um and and decisions affecting technologies will end up being like a coordination game. So more gen quite generally it will be the case that if green policies and environmental ambitious policies are anticipated then investments in in green technologies abatement technologies uh renewables will pay off and when those investments have taken place it will also be easier to continue or introduce in the first place the environmental ambitious policies. So that's a self-sustaining equilibrium. The problem is that we start here. Um, we start here with not sufficiently ambitious environmental policies, not sufficiently global policies. That's on the on the global level at least. And that is uh partly because a lot of capital is sunk and we then have stranded assets in relatively um traditional sectors. and those investments uh are continuing to take place there because the policies are not sufficiently ambitious at the global level. So the solution um dear governor CEO and decision makers and policy makers the solutions [Laughter] the solutions is to pay attention to how you your important decisions will affect expectations because expectations are self-fulfilling in such a coordination game. If investors and other countries expect that the Paris agreement will fail, it will fail. If expectations change, investments will change. If investor investors trust that the green renewable investments, they will be profitable because of their ambitious environmental policies or and climate policies. While invest broad investments will not have the same support then green investments will accelerate and this is important and it's quite general. So in fact all public policies which affect the profitability of uh future different future industries and therefore all type of public investments they can be interpreted as signals. If I'm one not one of those investors I I will learn from things from that. If if I see governments, if I see big decision makers um make investments on a bet on which scenario they think will be likely, I learn I will take that as a signal if I'm an individual investors and I will also coordinate on the same expectation. So those decisions will reveal tensions and beliefs and they will affect invest expectations and investments. So therefore pay attention to how um the big decisions are affecting the expectations. Thank you. Thank you for your very important insights. Now to round off this session, we will again turn to Norway. It is my honor to introduce Hild de Bernlan, a prominent Norwegian economist and a leading voice of macroeconomics, energy economics, and applied econometrics. Hild delan is a professor at BI Norwegian Business School where she also serves as the provost for research and academic resources. In addition to her academic achievements, Professor Bernardan has served on several advisory boards and she provides valuable input to policy discussions both here in Norway and abroad. Today she will elaborate on the challenges of the energy transition for the Norwegian economy. Welcome to the stage Herna. [Applause] Thank you for inviting me here and thank you for arranging this wonderful conference. So talking about uh challenges with regard to the energy transition for Norway, I could give you two narratives. One could be like compared to other oil producing countries, we are extremely well equipped. We have the sovereign wealth fund you heard about this morning, largest wealth fund in the world. We have high growth rates, low unemployment rate and we have in general uh very low inequality. But I could also give you another narrative. A narrative which is a little bit more challenging. A narrative which is related to the fact that we are going to face a double challenge over petroleum resources are going to go down. At the same time as we as everybody else has to adapt to the climate change and on top of that I'm going to also talk about the fact that compared not to the oil producing countries but to other OCD countries we have put ourselves in a situation where we are world champion in using of resources public resources internally and I will take that second route in talking about the challenges this narrative because I think that's important. important to talk about. That is not to say that we are not well equipped like everybody else but it means that we have to take more pay more attention to these challenges. All right. So um we have heard about the effect of climate change uh how it affects country differently the distribution of countries related very much to location. We also heard about how it affects household income the distribution related to income. But climate change will push lead to push for renewables and it will mean that it will change exporters and importers differently. And Norway is an energy exporter of oil and gas, a large one, although petroleum resources have declined recently and will continue to decl independent of this climate change. But the push for climate change and renewable will speed up that transition. We know for uh energy importers, we know quite a lot about uh how um although there are uncertainty there also, but we know in particular that uh when you become less uh when you import less uh oil and gas, you will become less dependent on fossil fuels and of course less dependent on fossil fuel countries. For energy exporters, there is not much evidence actually. There is uncertainty there. So on top of the uncertainty about the climate change, there's also this uncertainty about what will happen to the energy exporters because there's little evidence ex describing exactly that. So uh to go through that route I need to step back a bit and that that means that for the Norwegian audience they will know understand what I talk about very well but for the international audience this will be something I think is important to understand where we're coming from. So there's a huge literature starting in the 70s about whether um oil and gas is a blessing or curse starting with Sax and Warner and Cordon and others uh discussing these topics. So Norway uh discovered oil in 1969 at Echoisk and you see Echoisk to the left there and the discovery of oil has generated a huge stream of income which is the foundation for the oil fund today. And this income uh is obviously something we will be challenged by that that will be declining going forward. But there's more to this picture than just income because this picture tells also that the discovery of oil and gas has been done in the North Sea in harsh in harsh conditions. Not only of course wind and coldness etc. But drilling in the North Sea offshore is drilling um many many meters below the sea level horizontally uh as well as vertically. And this process has generated as I said income but it has also generated technology spillovers to other industry and that spillover has been important for Norway because that has been the foundation also for a lot of other industries in Norway. So how does that square with the fact that we should expect something like a resource or maybe Dutch disease if you heard about that? Well, so picture to the right is an example of a uh kind of very stylish way of looking about oil exporter. It tells you that if you so on the vertical axis is growth rates and on the horizontal axis is export share uh oil and gas in your export share. So it tells you that the more oil and gas you have in your export going horizontal, the less your growth rate will be. So this is an average of the last 20 years done by USAD. So an adapt so an update of the sax estimation and that figure is sloping downward even more so in the in the early days but this is a snapshot it's a snapshot of the last 20 years it does so for us for economists this is correlational causation it doesn't tell you anything about where you're coming from what did we do the 30 years before that where how did that affect the economy and how are the cycles in this period So this curse description is not necessarily fitting for all countries. So you have to be more nuanced and that's what we have been trying to do in research for at last 10 15 years together with other colleagues and one of the things we have been looking at is exactly this hypothesis of the Dutch disease. So curse sounds very bad. Dutch disease is a little bit better. You're not cursed. You don't have negative growth rates. that after a oil boom you experience higher unemployment rate deficit uh and also uh lower growth rates but we didn't see that in Norway over the c over the time we have seen so uh together with here showing from one paper together with lefu we have examined uh by building models and analyzing data how the oil boom has affected the Norwegian economy and to the left there you see employment in manufacturing as a share of total employment and you see Norway in black and Sweden in gray both are trending downwards but Norway is trending more downwards so we know as a share of uh manufacturing as a share of employment has fallen in many industrial industrialized countries but it's fallen more in Norway so that's a sign of dust disease you are thinking and yes it is a sign of dust disease it's fallen more in Norway because oil has crowded out other industries like tech industry for instance. But on the right you see something which contradicted the disease because there you see that productivity here measured by labor productivity has increased more than in Sweden. So both in total Norway and Norway mainland which is a staple. So despite losing more of the manufacturing we have had higher productivity growth in Norway. And what we do in that paper and another paper is that we analyze why. And one of the reason is exactly for because of the harsh condition in the North Sea. It has generated productivity spillovers to other industries and it has made us develop a very profitable um oil service industry which has had spillovers to other industries and that is one of the reasons for this higher productivity growth in this period. Another reason is of course something I don't show here but related very much to the opening talk today namely that we have saved a lot of that revenue. We have we haven't inflated the economy by using a lot like other oil producing countries. We have saved for the future and we have gradually faced that money into the economy and that in that phasing in is one of the reason why we haven't seen skyrocking uh wages and skyrocking uh inflation. Another reason which I'm not going to talk about here but which uh I'm looking into and which but which is also an interesting fact that is that during this period female labor participation rate increased massively in Norway and much more compared to other oil producing countries and that is also one of the reason why we haven't seen the over the heating overheating of the Norwegian economy and that's something to look uh that's something we know narratively but it's also something we are looking into more quantitatively which is interesting to look at but okay I'm going to talk about my talk is about challenges so uh this is obviously about the narrative about what we have done well which I think is important to keep in your hands on but we do have some challenges and let me start by saying that despite the fact that we have saved a lot we have also used a lot and then we discussed that in Norway the typical argument is that yes we have used a lot but we were supposed to use a lot because we were facing in a lot over the But because the oil fund has grown so much, taking 3% out of the fund in spending has been a lot over the time. And to the left, you see the non fiscal deficit as a percent of mainland GDP in Norway. Today all more than 30% is fin 30% of GDP is financed by uh is is is due to spending coming from from um from the oil from the oil fund sorry uh in fact uh 25% to the right of uh fiscal budget expenditure is coming from uh the return of the fund and While this is of course something we will plan for, this is gives us also some challenges because now we are facing uh as we we are talking about climate change. We are facing energy transition and we are facing old age and the minister of finance in their budget last week pointed out that in a few years we're going to see costs exceed revenues uh in the government sector and that means that maybe going forward the 3% from the fund will not be sufficient to finance that. So we have put ourselves in a situation where compared to other OCD countries we have already used a lot of the resources the we are already depending a lot on the income from the fund and of course although the fund is doing well uh it is an source of income which is fluctuating in the market which gives for another uh which gives us another challenge in case that will happen. Okay. So we have saved a lot uh and uh Norway is in many way a good country but we have some other challenges which has been pointed out by uh economists in a couple of articles. So we came from a situation where we were um the rich cousin in the north. They did the Scandinavian comparison which I don't think was fair because we were just the rich cousin in north. We are much more than just the rich curs in north as I pointed out with with regard to uh our industries. But in 2015 oil prices fell drastically and then a lot of the oil exporting countries uh were facing higher unemployment rate, lower growth rate and a weakened currency. The Norwegian Blues, that's their graph, not mine, uh, put us in the same situation as Russia and Venezuela and others, which were really having a blow to their economy. The Norwegian economy didn't experience such a recession. But we did experience something which has gone a bit unnoticed, namely that growth rate since then has declined somewhat and the exchange rate most importantly has never recovered. So what I'm going to uh show you here is uh two challenges which I think they're there and which uh I think are important to address going forward in particular if we are to uh adapt and uh reduce our dependence on oil to build other industry. The first is that despite having high productivity levels and higher growth rates in the 80s, 90s, early 20s than many countries, growth rates of productivity now are declining in Norway relative to other top OCD countries. So we see that the last 10 years growth rates of productivity have flattened out and declined in Norway which is uh maybe not a concern since you're coming from high level but the concern when you are transitioned the economy into uh out of fossil fuels into renewable energy. Norway has a high labor supply, but we also have a high share um or so we have a high labor supply, but it has been stagnating and we also have we also work fewer hours than many OCD countries and most importantly we have an increase in share outside the labor force and that share uh which was also ped pointed out by the minister of finance last week in their budget that share uh has a proportionally is proportionally larger outside the labor force due to sickness and disability than other Nordic countries. And this figure shows the um recipiental disability benefit as a percent of population in Norway the last 10 15 years. So it has been increasing. So why do I focus on that? is because we need a flexible labor force going forward and we need high growth rates and pro a productive economy to transition out of oil and the productivity let me put it glut or uh stagnation or whatever is also affecting our external sectors. So in research I've done together with uh and this is the most challenging graph of my talk. uh in the research I've done together with colleagues in Norris Bank, Leubach and Nicolum Fati, we have examined exactly the effect of the oil boom on the exchange rate and we have done it now by building a theory model will take which take into account the sovereign belt fund which take into account the different industries which take into account the spillover and which takes into account exactly this transition. And what we show then both theoretically and empirically is that we can explain the depreciation. Depreciation is here going up of the real exchange rate the last 10 15 years by weakening productivity differential and also uh facing out the oil. So the graph to the left shows you the real exchange rate blue and the black is the trend of that go in the last since 1980. And to the right what you see there if you if you focus on the thing going down you see that and going down means appreciation from 80 from 1980 and up until 2010 the oil contributed to appreciate the real exchange rate because it takes it down both the oil production activities below but also the oil price typically as you would expect for an oil producer but since maybe since probably around the oil price decline in 2014 1415 the tides sorry have turned the other way. So uh lesser dependence of oil which is a good thing with regard to climate change but it has worked on the macro side to depreciate the real exchange rate. So it go takes it in that direction. At the same time the big yellow one is the uh weakening of the productivity differential relative to other country. It have worked also to depreciate the real exchange rate. You see on the left that the black is below the blue which means that it doesn't explain everything. Montrop poll explains something fiscal policy explains something and the fact that is below the blue tells you that exchange rate is weak more weak now than what our trend suggest. So for us going abroad it means that maybe it will go down and that will be a good thing but then again you don't know that. So um wrapping up um we have gone from being uh an oildriven exceptional country to what I would call at least a more normal country. The Norwegian economy is doing well. I mean low unemployment rate and growth rate are okay. But there are what I call not we are not facing what I call the Dutch disease but something I call the muted Dutch disease. There's a risk of the of a muted dust disease. We have used a lot of fiscal concussions in Norway. We have a great sovereign we have a great welfare system but we have also stretched amount of funding into the Norwegian economy. So that now we are vulnerable to changes in both the fund and to cost exceeding revenues going forward and in particular the physical cushion although they can solve a lot of things they can't solve the growth challenge and they can't solve the energy transition. For that we need other measures. uh but I think that I want to end on an optimistic note. So I think that ended end of the transition is not just a matter of cost to Norwegian economy. It's a lot of opportunity as well. New industries, new patents, new um new firms, new growth rates, new partners, new new discussions, etc. But um we need as um Nicl Tang said this morning, we need u to have ambitions to achieve those goals. So brushing our challenges under the carpet is not something I do. Instead, put them up and discuss what to do about them. And I think ultimately long-term prosperity depends on productivity, skills, and innovation. And the uh energy transition and the climate change is going to give you all of these opportunities. But for that we need to take care about what we use the fund for uh and what position we put ourselves in and in particular what kind of groceries are we going to have going forward and in particular how can we adapt so that we put oursel in that position and let me end on this humoristic whatever uh informal photo we are still exceptional man way but we are not shielded by all we can't be lazy going forward thank Thank you so much uh for your compelling presentation. Um now I suspect hunger is starting to set in. So let's do lunch. For those of you attending remotely, we will see you again after the break at 12:50 sharp. 12:50. For the rest of us, lunch will now be served in Spal, which means the hall of mirrors. And you will soon see why. We've kept the lunch climate friendly. And three dishes are available. Sustainable salmon and two vegan alternatives. So, please now follow our security staff that will usher you in the right direction. Bonapati. [Applause] [Music] [Music] Your Royal Highness Madame President, former Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to this third session of our conference. For this session, we are fortunate to have European Central Bank President Madame Christine Dagad and former US Vice President Al Gore as our keynote speakers. Their keynotes will be followed by a conversation between them and moderated by Christine Halveran, director of Cicero. And first, Madame Lagard, as president of the European Central Bank and also throughout your tenure as managing director of the IMF, you have maintained a strong commitment to bringing climate change considerations to the four in our profession. Madame Lagard, please. [Applause] Your Royal Highness Vore, Madame Governor of Olden. Sherida, Madame Laminist, dear Mrs. Whom, I'll switch to English. Rest assured. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great great pleasure to be back at Nor's Bank. I was here almost 10 years ago for the 200th anniversary and I'm delighted to be back particularly for the first conference organized by NES Bank and NOS's uh investment fund. So when I last visited the central bank back in the summer of 2016, the world and Europe was in a slightly different place. Backtrack a little bit. Remember about 10 years ago, the Paris Agreement, the international treaty to reduce greenhouse gas emission was hardly one year old and it enjoyed strong support from all major powers around the world. A benign geopolitical environment also blurred the risks of Europe's growing energy dependencies. Nordstream 2. A new gas pipeline project had recently been announced, promising to deliver plenty cheap Russian gas to the continent. Fast forward to today and see how many differences we are facing and how the world has dramatically changed in dramatic ways. We are witnessing a backlash against green initiatives. The war in Ukraine has further exposed Europe's energy dependencies as strategic vulnerabilities driving up gas prices after the cutoff of the Russian pipeline supply. And who knows what's happening under the water level. And as a result, energy prices have risen sharply since gas sets the marginal price in the EU energy market for most of the time. In this new environment, many countries face an increasingly difficult tradeoff between three energy goals that I will call my energy trilmna. My team argues that I should not really use trilmna because in a trilmna you can't really escape and I'm going to try to show you that we can escape the trilmna. So what are the three angles of the trilmna? We need energy that is secure because the geopolitical reality has changed dramatically. We need energy that is sustainable because the climate reality has not changed or some would argue that it has changed for the worse. And we need energy that is affordable because households and corporates need it. Ultimately only clean energy has the potential to deliver on all three goals of my trilmna. As Norway actually demonstrates the share of renewable in energy consumption here in this country ranks amongst the highest in the world. While household energy prices, I know highly debated on the subject of controversy during the political campaign, but remember they are still around 23 of the EU average. Norway can inspire the European Union and demonstrate that it is possible if we remain ambitious to move towards that green transition that would address the three angles of the trilmna. Because a successful transition to a renewable-based system comes with many benefits. It also requires a massive investment push. The faster policy makers can create an environment in which such investment can flourish, the easier and less costly the transition will be. Now I'm going to ask for your indulgence because I will quote Ulav Hoger who wrote Yeah, forgive me. I'll try. Ah, thank you. One person understood what I said. Thank you, Madame Minister. So for those of you who have not qualified yet in Norwegian, what it means is badly pronounced by me, this is your road and it is impossible to turn back. So today what I will do with you is explore from a central banker's point of view how Europe's road to renewable can deliver powerful benefits if we unlock the right conditions. So I will look in turn at the landscape as we have it at the moment, what the promises and the challenges are and what the financing needs are and how they can be addressed. I'll try to gallop through my remarks because I know that time is pressing and my friend colleague much admired vice president Al Gore needs to take the floor for longer than me. So before horrible Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Europe's de facto prioritized two elements of the trilmna, sustainability and affordability. We didn't really think very much about security, not in the terms that we're thinking about it now. So as part of its fit for 55 targets, the EU aimed to raise the share of renewables in its energy consumption to as much as 45% in 2030. At the same time, almost half of the gas imports came from Russia. The combination kept energy cost contained, facilitating as a result Europe competitiveness. Energy remained relatively cheap for energy intensive industries and those periods of intermittency, you know, when renewable output was low and gas served as a backup did not lead to significant price volatility. But we ultimately paid the price for neglecting the third goal, which is energy security. When the geopolitical context changed, the consequences for our economy were severe. Consequences that we as central bankers had to face and combat. First, we saw a surge of inflation. Energy inflation in the Euro area surged to 37 surged to 37% in 22 pushing headline inflation for a record of 8.4% that year. So in response what all central banks had to do was to significantly respond by implementing the fastest monetary tightening in the history of the ECB in order to bring inflation back under control. And I'm pleased to say that we have managed to do that and it is now under control at our medium-term target and it will stay there. Now, surging energy prices led to a second consequence. They have reduced Europe's competitiveness. Although the acute phase of the energy shock has passed, the new geopolitical reality has left a lasting imprint on Europe's energy cost, weakening its position relative to other regions of the world. Electricity prices in the EU remain about two and a half times higher than in the United States and gas prices almost four times higher than in the United States. This gap is is shaping how firms invest, how firms innovate, and even where they choose to locate their operations. Our research at the ECB shows that European firms significantly reduce their capital and research and development expenditure in response to energy shocks. Unlike their US counterparts, there are growing concerns that higher energy prices may also be contributing to the disindustrialization as European firm struggles struggle against foreign competition and higher energy prices make it harder for Europe to full to fully embrace the new technologies that will drive future productivity and by that I mean artificial intelligence. So it is essential to bring energy cost down if we are to safeguard Europe's industrial competitiveness, its high level of research and development and leverage artificial intelligence. And I'm confident that we can, but we cannot do so by trading off other goals. We must ensure that our energy sources are secure, that our energy is sustainable, and that it is affordable. the triilimar that I told you about. The only viable path for Europe to achieve these objectives is to rely more on locally clean energy. This path could help meet the three goals of the trilmna. First, renewables alongside other clean technologies for producing electricity are central to any credible plan to reduce the impact of climate change. Second, renewables offer level of energy independence that given our lack of natural resources, Europe would never reach with imported fossil fuel. And third, as a marginal as the marginal cost of renewable electricity is close to zero, a system based largely on renewables should ultimately bring down energy prices. But we all know that there is some skepticism about all that and skepticism as to whether such price reductions are really possible in Europe over the short to medium term. And the key issue is that building and operating a renewables-based system involves significant additional expenses that are known as the system costs which are based on the on which are passed onto the energy bills. So what are these costs? Those system costs they come from different sources. Some of those costs are unavoidable unavoidable, but others can be minimized if we are truly ambitious with the transition. The unavoidable costs include massive investment in new generation capacity and modernized grid. The European Commission estimates that these will require an annual investment of nearly 150 billion euros. And that number may even rise if restrictions on critical raw materials increase input cost or delay projects. But that's not the only cost. And there are other costs that can be minimized. For instance, the costs related to the inherent intermittency of renewables. Intermittency leads to higher price volatility which ultimately feeds into higher average bills which contributes to inflation which is a cause for concern for a central banker. We saw this in November last year when low wind output across much of Europe especially in Germany prompted a surge in gas fired generation to meet demand. Electricity prices jumped in several countries and the effects were felt across Europe including in uh some parts of Norway. There are also costs associated with curtailment when renewable output is deliberately reduced to keep the system balanced which often results in payment to providers. The European Commission estimates that by 2040 we could lose up to 10 times more renewable energy generation than we lose today owing to grid constraints. But this cost should not hold us back from staying the course. And there are three reasons why I'm optimistic that Europe can overcome these challenges. First, while we cannot eliminate the cost associated with intermittency, we cannot control the weather. We can substantially reduce them if we push through with the investment in generation capacity, grids and storage. I was at the IMF last week, annual meetings. I asked the head of European department, if you had to make one change, the first one that you would make, what is it? Invest in grids. Instant response. One of our studies estimates that if European countries meet their solar and wind targets, electricity prices could fall by more than a quarter by 2030 and become less volatile owing to a weaker link between electricity and gas prices. Curtailment costs that I have just mentioned would also fall as research finds that each euro invested in upgrading the electricity grid translates into over2 saved in systems costs. Second, infrastructure investment could be particularly effective in Europe owing to what? To our geographic diversity. Southern Europe performs strongly in solar power while northern and Atlantic coastal regions excel in wind energy. You have the second largest coastal treasure in Norway and wind energy seems particularly propitious to that. I know it's controversial as well. It's controversial in my country too. But deeper energy market integration, for example, through more crossber interconnectors would let countries share surplus electricity, smooth fluctuations from interminent intermittent sources and use generation and grid capacity more efficiently. Research underlines the benefits. Deeper crossber integration is found to cut overall systems cost by around 9% which is the equivalent of 26 billion annually and it reduces electricity prices more than isolated national approaches. So a collective approach and the interconnection into a grid system that is more efficient is part of the answer. Third element, the technology is moving in our favor. Not only are renewable solutions becoming much cheaper, but the ability to store renewable energy through periods of intermittency is also improving fast. The International Energy Agency finds that the cost of clean technologies has fallen more than half over the past decade and that battery pack costs are now roughly a tenth of what they were 15 years ago. So while there are costs that we have to reckon with, Europe is also well positioned to overcome some of them. And if we manage to quickly unlock the investment needed to build a world-class renewable infrastructures, Euro Europe can keep those other cost while maximizing the benefits of renewables. So what is missing as usual? Money. How can we unlock the investment? It's not that liquidity are short. It's not that investment are not directed to projects. But I think that we policy makers and I'm talking here about both fiscal authorities and monetary authorities. We must provide two things. First, the right environment for financing. If we factor in decarbonization, industry, transport and energy supply, the financing needs for the green transition are massive, the private sector will have to account for at least twothirds of this investment. But even though Europe has ample savings, current financing arrangements are not channeling supply towards demand. Nearly four in 10 European firms see the lack of investor willingness to finance green investment as a very significant obstacle. So the missing link in our view is a proper functioning capital market. Debt and more importantly equity financing currently rank lowest among the funding sources that firms expect to use for green investment. Deepening and integrating EU capital markets is critical to support the large-scale investments that we need. The good news from where I sit and what I can observe is that there is political momentum behind the capital market union and it has never been greater. Now the skeptics will say, "Hi, you've been talking about it for 10 years." Well, I can tell you for having witnessed this for 10 years, it has never been so high. It has never been so decisive in terms of we need to do it now. Those of you who follow Chancellor Mertz will have seen his comment from last week. One single market for capital union. He said one single stock market even and one single super supervision authority. Second policy makers need to create a predictable environment for investment. Investment will not step forward if the green transition is clouded by uncertainty especially if there are also growing push back against green initiatives in other parts of the world. So we must reduce uncertainty where it is possible. So creating the right environment begins with well three elements again credibility, speed and confidence. Following through on existing green targets and maintaining a stable carbon price very important for the credibility. Wavering on those commitments would risk chilling investment just when we need it the most. Credibility must be matched by speed. Across Europe, investment investors face slow and fragmented permitting procedures that delay progress. In some member states in Europe, completing the permitting process can take up to five years for utility scale solar photovoltaic projects and up to nine years for onshore wind. We must shorten these timelines if the EU is to meet its green goals. Finally, policy makers must build confidence in future electricity demand. For instance, in Europe, electricity still faces higher taxes than gas, discouraging electrification. And while this gap will narrow as carbon pricing is extended to heating fuels, governments can already act by lowering electricity taxes and moving it to other energy sources. Central banks can also contribute to this confidence because obviously for investors in green technology, in green projects, in transition measures, the predictability of price stability is vital. much more so in that sector of investment than in others to deliver on those policy makers have to be courageous and I hope this will not be in short supply because we need a lot of it so let me conclude Europe's recent energy crisis has revealed a hard truth our dependence on imported fossil fuels is no longer sustainable an accelerating climate crisis makes this lesson even clearer. But we're not a prisoner of the dilemma of the trilmna. We have the agency to shape our future here. Renewables offer the clearest path to minimize the trade-off between energy policy goals of security, sustainability, and affordability. And pushing ahead with renewable is also strongly supported by citizens. Listen to that number. Nearly nine in 10 Europeans want the EU to expand renewable energy. Some of the cost associated with the transition, such as the required investment, will be unavoidable. But if we create the ideal conditions in which that investment can flourish, we can ensure that the transition remains cost-effective. Our regreted anthropologist Jane Goodall, who sadly passed away this month, reminded us She said what you do makes a difference and you have to decide what difference you want to make. So Europe must now decide either we remain with that unsustainable and expensive static quo or we create an environment that can unlock the investment needed for sustainable, secure and affordable energy. I hope we have that courage and that determination. Thank you. Thank you so much, Madame President, for an outstanding speech. The future of European energy is green and renewable and perhaps helped a little bit along the way uh by us uh up here. And I'm not talking about Norwegian gas, which everyone knows, but about the investments that we recently did in European grid structure. Now, I would like to welcome former Vice President Al Gore to the stage. Mr. Gore has worked to raise awareness about climate issues for many, many years, for which he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007. And as co-founder and chairman of Generation Investment Management, you continue to be at the vanguard of efforts to inform the world about the dangers posed by climate change. So we are delighted to have you at our conference today. Please welcome to the floor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. um your royal highness crown prince Hulkon. Thank you very much. I look forward to meeting with you later. And thank you, by the way, for your own personal commitment on the climate issue. It's quite important to Eda Waldenbotch, the governor and chair of Nores Bank. Nikolai Tangen, thank you for inviting me, Nikolai. I am honored to be here. Especially, it is an honor to share the stage with Christine Lagard. That was a brilliant speech really and truly it was out outstanding and um Sher Christine we have become very very close friends over the years and it's an honor to be here with you and Kristen Halverson thank you very much look forward to the conversation after these remarks. It's a great pleasure to be back here in Oslo. I've been here for three days and one of the first questions I've received uh from friends that I meet here is about Donald Trump. I don't intend to talk about Donald Trump today, but I met with a friend who is a Norwegian businessman who does business in the United States, and I asked him how he felt about Trump's policies and decisions. And he said, "I feel fine." And there was something about the way he said it that reminded me of a story that I heard actually 40 years ago. I come from Nashville, Tennessee. the home of country music and the Grand Old Opry. And back in those days, they had a comedian named Cousin Mini Pearl who wore a calico dress and a straw hat with the price tag still hanging from the hat. And she she had homespun rural humor. And she told a story. I was driving back to my farm after a day of town hall meetings as a young congressman. and she told about a farmer who was involved in an accident and he sued the other driver for damages. And when the other driver's lawyer had the chance to cross-examine this farmer, he said, "Now, isn't it true that immediately after this accident, you said, "I feel fine." And the farmer said, "Well, it's not that simple. You see, I was driving my cow to town in the back of my truck, and this fell came driving across the center of the highway, and the lawyer said, "I object, your honor. We don't want to hear a long involved story. Just answer the question, yes or no. Did you or did you not say immediately after the accident, I feel fine." Farmer said, "Well, I was leading up to that. You see, I was driving my cow to town in the back of my truck and this fella came driving across the center line and ran right smack dab into my truck and knocked it over and threw me out and threw the cow out. I was on one side and the cow was on the other and the policeman came up and took one look at that cow and said, "She is suffering." Pulled out his gun and shot her right between the eyes. Came around to my side of the truck and said, "How do you feel?" And uh so there was something about the businessman's comment that reminded me of that story. Well, there's no doubt that we're at a a critical moment in the global sustainability transition and it's always faced significant headwinds. But as uh uh President Lagarde has very eloquently said, those headwinds have become stronger and everybody knows it. Uh at at my investment firm, Generation Investment Manager, we do an annual sustainability trends report. This is the ninth year. We couldn't find any place where it was all put together and so we've tried to do it each year. A and our our key findings uh this year are that um there is some pause but there's also reason for uh some good feelings. You know 10 years ago the projections were that we would um reach a 3.6 C increase in temperatures. That has now been cut down to 2.7. So we've shaved off nearly 1% but it's not nearly enough. And since 2001 we have more or less stalled out at that level. The estimated temperature rise under current national policies has not moved in four years. And we all know the reasons. There is a huge political push back that has made it harder and harder for countries to adopt new policies and improve their climate uh ambition. You know, uh, last week the Swedish Nobel Committee award I by the way much prefer the Norwegian Nobel Committee. Uh, but the Swedish committee awarded its economics prize this year to three distinguished economists. Half to Joel Moer and half to two of his colleagues. And I think it's worth reflecting because on what they are honored for finding because it's one of the more consequential awards uh in the last several decades in my opinion. Mocher who has had a narrative throughine for decades makes the point that innovation is the real key uh to economic uh prosperity and growth. But his two colleagues have pointed out that one of the factors that stifles innovation is when powerful incumbent industries that have a reason to fear the changes that come with innovation might have gathered too much political power uh and as a result are able to stop the introduction of innovations. And the fossil fuel industry is significantly more efficient at capturing politicians than capturing emissions. Uh and as a result, they have used the accumulated political power to push back and to blunt the progress that the world needs very seriously. We are continuing to put 175 million tons of man-made global warming pollution into the troposphere every day. And it accumulates to the point where it presently traps as much extra heat each day as would be released by 750,000 first generation atomic bombs exploding on the earth's surface every 24 hours. Uh this is causing a massive disruption of the water cycle. it is creating uh massive consequences that are getting worse by the day. And as we seek to restart the progress that stalled out um in 2021, we also confront a wave of right-wing populism that has at best complicated politics around the world. And we have seen a tumultuous few years with the sadistic invasion of Ukraine by Russia, with the interruption of gas supplies, as President Lagarde has eloquently described, the pandemic, which we want to forget quickly, but really royal politics in quite a significant number of ways. And lest we forget, we are still coping with the hyper globalization that followed China's admission to the WTO with the centrifugal redistribution of many higher wage jobs to low-wage venues around the world and an increase in hyper inequality that has caused a lot of dissatisfaction that infects the politics of every nation. So that lack of progress is why this year is so critical. And in less than a month, the nations of the world will meet in Brazil for COP 30, the annual UNled international climate negotiations. And 10 years ago in Paris, 195 countries agreed to get to net zero by 2050. Only one nation has withdrawn. I'm embarrassed to remind you that it's my nation. But I also want to note a significant mathematical equation that some people seem to forget episodically. 195 minus one does not equal zero. Other nations are stepping up and filling the gap. uh and the European European Union is playing a leadership role and no nation is providing as much leadership truly as Norway is providing. Uh and unfortunately uh the election of President Trump has complicated this quite uh significantly. But of course and his actions are influencing some other nations which have slowed down their own progress. But no other nation has withdrawn. We are seeing new national plans come out. So far they are much weaker than they need to be. And the weakness of these plans is worrisome but not entirely surprising because if the largest emitter of global warming pollution in history uh is not participating in solving this collective problem, then that can damage the motivation of other countries uh to tackle it themselves. But Norway is one of the nations poised to usher in a reversal of what I believe is destined to be a short-lived trend of backsliding. In submitting a new climate plan ahead of COP 30, Norway has indicated that action is still on the agenda. And of course, as always, the devil is in the details. But I want to applaud Norway's robust and ongoing commitment to helping developing nations adapt to the changes that can no longer be avoided. In fact, Norway's track record of overseas development assistance uh and other aid is truly remarkable. You've routinely committed more than 1% of your national income to these purposes. No other country I'm aware of can match that record. My own country is closer to a quarter of a percentage point. And that's before the current administration started slashing foreign aid. And Norway has committed to doubling its climate finance by 2026 compared with the 2020 figure and has already achieved this goal for the past two years. Norway has also played a stalwart role in saving helping to save the world's tropical forests contributing the equivalent of many billions of US dollars to that cause. It is important to recognize, however, that government-to-government aid, as essential as it is, uh, pales in comparison to the needed access to private capital in order to finance the energy transition. One of the most hopeful and optimistic trends of the last few years, last year for example, if you look at all of the new electricity generation installed worldwide everywhere in the world, many are surprised to hear that the percentage represented by renewable energy was 93%. And the International Energy Agency has projected that in the years ahead, it's going to exceed 95% renewable energy. But where did the money come from to install that 93% renewable energy? 85% of the money came from private capital, only 15% from government support. However, there is an unequal malistribution of access to capital. There is what the economists call a home bias. And there is also a reluctance on the part of investors and lenders to commit to capital in uh infusions into developing countries where there is a noticeable risk of currency valuation on a sudden basis which might cause them to lose their money. Of course, they're going to be concerned. uh access to courts for the enforcement of contracts, continuity of government, continuity of government u corruption in some areas. All of these factors have raised the interest rates for developing countries two to three times higher than what Norway or the United States would pay. Uh and as a result, they have been deprived of access to capital. Take Africa for example. Africa has 60% of the prime solar energy potential of the entire world. But Africa has fewer solar panels installed than the single US state of Florida. That is a disgraceful commentary on the current system for the allocation of capital around the world. Developing countries as a whole are getting a tiny share of the capital necessary to finance the energy transition and the larger sustainability transition. They are getting 43% of the new investment in fossil fuel development, virtually all of it for exporting fossil fuel resources from developing countries to the wealthy countries. My friends in the activist community in developing countries call it fossil fuel colonialism. And of course, the resource curse that countries like Nigeria have experienced is to be avoided, especially now that we have a superior source of energy in renewable energy, both solar uh and wind. and the cost of solar and wind uh continue to go down uh very very uh impressively. Now this nation has been as I've said a very impressive leader in all of these matters and Norway's power sector is already one of the cleanest in the world. 98% of Norway's electricity capacity is carbonf free and of course you have a lot of hydro power but you've made the right choices a and we are seeing an inflection point as the cost of solar in particular reaches unprecedented low levels take Pakistan for example they are installing cheap Chinese solar panels at a record rate in some areas of Pakistan it is now not uncommon for a bride's dowy to be three panels and an inverter. Uh and that's a true story and we are seeing this take off in so many uh countries. Uh imports of solar panels are rising very quickly not only in the developing countries of Africa uh but in Southeast Asia and elsewhere in the world. And when solar panels are coupled with batteries, then the transformation really begins to take hold. In my nation, the California grid is getting 20% of its power in the early evening from batteries charged with sunshine earlier in the day. I flew here from Australia and South Australia gets 30% of its power from batteries in the early evening. Their goal is to reach 100%. And the experts believe they definitely will reach that goal. So the second largest market for fossil fuels after electricity generation is transportation. Uh and worldwide the sales volume of electric cars is up more than 30% this year. Uh will likely be a quarter of all cars sold worldwide uh in 2025. And Norway once again is the global leader. Cars with plugs have been nor more than 90% of the market for years already. And the figures for the month of September just came in. 98.3% of all new car sales in Norway are electric. So I think you can check that box. Norway, thank you very much for your leadership. Your national fleet is already one-third electric on its way toward 100%. And the rest of us can look around Norway right now and begin to see the start of a post oil future. But there is a huge geopolitical challenge associated with both the solar boom, the battery boom, uh, and the electric transportation boom. China has made decisions that have allowed it to dominate the market in all of these sustainability focused industries uh in the future. During the month of May this year, China installed as much new solar electric capacity every day as would have been provided by opening three 1 gawatt nuclear plants every day, 30 days in a row. It's difficult to imagine any other country accomplishing that and in every one of the related fields they have made an in a decision to move aggressively to dominate those industries. So we must respond to that challenge. China seems to think that they really will make the 21st century a Chinese century and provide leadership for the entire world perhaps in the geopolitical sphere as well. I don't think they can. I don't think the world will follow China because the world does not generally speaking agree with the values of China. We value freedom even though it seems at times to be under assault. But uh let me also made make the point that suspicion of Chinese motives might well be warranted on many fronts including the security risks that they pose to NATO countries and European countries more generally. The Chinese economy is itself a long way from clean. But we have to recognize that what they have accomplished with the energy transition. Uh Norway uh is inspiring countries around the world. Uh we have to respond and ma to and manage China's dominance of these technologies. And yet we also need to recognize that since Paris, the direction of travel for the world economy has been clear. Companies that want to continue to compete for global markets will have to make sustainability central to their business operations. The United States uh is not participating in the way that it should. But I do believe that change is coming in my country uh as well. So despite the political difficulties of the moment, we cannot let the ambition for a better world wither away on our watch. So, let me close by citing Norway's celebrated playwright Henrik Ipsson. And I am not going to be brave enough as as Christine was to even attempt to say it in Norwegian. Oh jeez, Christine. At a time when we've seen institutions of all kinds, but particularly financial institutions, back away from their earlier climate commitments, I'm reminded of Ipsson's The Master Builder and the quote castles in the air. They are so easy to take refuge in and so easy to build, too. But I'd like to remind us of another passage which to me demonstrates our collective task from Mandon. He wrote, "A thousand words can't make the mark. A single deed will leave." So, the time has come for all of us to summon our strength and ignore our critics, uh, turn our words into deeds that will collectively safeguard the future of human civilization. We have everything we need. The International Energy Agency tells us the technologies are there for 65% of the way to reducing to net zero. Proven business models are already known. We have clear line of sight to the other 35%. Every morallybased challenge that humanity has faced has gone through periods when the advocates felt despair. the abolition of slavery, women's suffrage, ending apartheid in South Africa, it seemed at times impossible. As the late man Nelson Mandela once said, "It always seems impossible until it's done." And when the underbrush of argumentation is cleared away and the central issue is revealed to be a choice between right and wrong, then at a very deep level, the outcome becomes forordained. The only thing some people think we have in short supply is political will. But please always remember that political will is itself a renewable resource. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to stay here and then [Applause] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You have given us a lot to think about um both about the challenges in the world but also about the hopes uh the technologies moving forward and perhaps I will remember the most the will and the determination to get ahead. That is what's going to change make change. So now you are already taking the stage. Uh and to moderate this uh conversation I have the pleasure to introduce Kristen Halverin as director of uh CISO uh the climate resource center here uh in Oslo and Kristen has also as many of you will know served as Norway's minister of finance. So welcome to you Kristen and I just leave the word to you.
>> Thank you so much. Thank you so much and thank you to Madame Lagor and Madame Lag and Mr. Gore. Yeah. So, that was a mistake on the first U sentence. H I I've been really looking forward to this, but I didn't know that you were going to quote Ipsson and Olavo. That was really impressive to the audience and we know that you are well prepared. And I have a long list of questions, but I think I'll try to just boil it down to one main question because you've both um told us what is needed and we know what is needed and we know that we are going in the right direction both in Europe not that much in US but it is limited how much damage Trump can do.
>> But we need to speed up. So what should we do to speed up? Madame Lallet, first
>> allow me to look at it from my my limited angle which is that of a of a central banker and one concerned about the movement of capital in the in the in the European Union which was one of the four freedom of circulation that was agreed between all the European partners. We have to make sure that private sector money I mean Al was very eloquent in saying what is it 90% of 85% of the necessary investment was financed by the private sector. Private sector has to feel confident and encouraged in investing in those elements of the transition and they're not just you know narrowmindedly defined. There's a whole range of sectors that have to benefit from the transition. So policy makers have to facilitate that accelerate it as much as possible. I think that has sort of cherry on the cakes which would not be irrelevant is making sure that there is the right taxation in the place where you want to encourage or discourage. So I referred in my speech to you know taxing alternative sources rather than electricity sources. I would say that encouraging equity investment rather than debt would also be necessary in order to you know have stable and longerterm investment which is needed in in the green uh sector. So on in from my corner I think accelerating speeding up simplifying access to from private capital to a market where green investment are encouraged by uh the fiscal side would be would be first priority together with you know in terms of where the money is invested. I would repeat grids, grids, grids in order to address the cost that can be reduced.
>> Let let me uh endorse uh uh President Lagard's comment about the priority that should be assigned to improving the grids. Um this is true in almost every country. When the millennium turned uh a few years ago, the National Academy of Engineering in the United States conducted a survey to identify the number one engineering achievement of the 20th century. And the answer was America's electricity grid. But only a few years later, it became apparent that the key part of that phrase was in the 20th century because it's no longer a one-way transmission. It is a a two-way and multi-way transition with grid storage uh widely distributed throughout the grid. Requires a lot of software. It requires a lot of innovation. I think this is going on in in the United States in spite of Trump. There's a boom in renewable energy investment right now in the United States. Some of it is driven by the prospective uh retirement of certain incentives at the end of the year, but it's mainly driven by the economic superiority of these sources. And may I remind you that when Donald Trump was president for four years, the first time around, what happened during those four years? Um, solar energy doubled, electric car sales doubled, clean energy investment tripled, coal use declined by more than 20%. Why? Because the economic realities are favoring this energy transition. If I could give you a visual metaphor that to me describes what's going on in the world and in the US, there's a big wheel turning in the right direction and little wheels within it turning in the opposite direction. But even those little wheels are being moved inexraably toward where we're going. We're not moving fast enough. We have to accelerate. How do we do it? In order to solve the climate crisis, we have to pay attention to the democracy crisis. Christine mentioned that nine out of 10 Europeans are in favor of ramping up investments in renewable energy. I don't think the percentage is quite that high in the US, but it's close to that in the US. Uh a and yet the political power and the legacy political and economic networks of the fossil fuel industry have been used very skillfully to slow this transition down. Uh and at the I mentioned the big changes with the pandemic and and and with the China WTO the invasion of Ukraine and all of that. There's another transition that's we've been wrestling with and that is a radical transition in the information ecosystem within which we make collective decisions. Norway and the United States formed our institutions during the era of the printing press and we cycled through broadcasting which is totalitarian friendly to the internet and now social media with an overlay of AI coming rapidly and as a result the the norms and practices of representative democracy have been turned upside down and they're not working as well as they should. I do believe that change is coming and I believe in the elections one year from next month we will see almost certainly we will see a dramatic change in the direction of the Congress in the United States.
>> Yes, let's hope so. I dare to say. Uh Madame, uh
>> can you allow me to make a suggestion here?
>> Absolutely. because I I don't know how many of you in this room have seen a film called The Inconvenient Truth.
>> Raise hands.
>> Okay. Point made. At times when films were actually very powerful,
>> one person sitting next to me was the agent for change. And I don't know what it was for you. For me, it was a dramatic understanding of what was going to happen. And I would suggest that with that same person sitting next to me, we should encourage him and maybe fund him. There's a bit of money around here to produce on the media of the future something that could be called I don't know the inconvenient comfort zone that we are in and or something like that in order to encourage as many young people because we're all a little bit over the edge of the 20s uh in this room but encourage them to appreciate what is needed how much money will be required and how they should prepare for that.
>> Wouldn't you agree? Yes. Yeah. Well, is that okay?
>> As I often say, if it hadn't been for me, we might have a big problem right now.
>> Yes.
>> But I'm not done yet.
>> You're not done yet. But should we move back to to the European country? No. No, please. Uh and uh because um climate initiatives are competing with many other uh important tasks. For instance, we have to increase our defense budget. We have a lot of other challenges. Uh how should we how should we try to to combine climate initiatives with all the other tasks that we have to address?
>> I hope it was clear in my in my remarks that we have to act together and the togetherness for me is Europe and the European friends around us. And I think that when there is a threat as obvious, as imminent, and as longlasting as climate change, it really warrants a joint approach. So fiscal space is limited for some countries as we know. Other countries have a larger balance sheets and are are putting the balance sheet uh in the equation. But it's really one of those areas. The two or three that I think my perspective are unquestionable. Defense is one, climate change is the other one that warrant joint commitment, joint initiative, joint funding in order to respond to the urgency of the matter. And as Gore was saying earlier on, 85% is private sector, 15% was the incentive or the environment within which policy makers could make a difference. So we're not talking about the entire financing needs being supported by governments because number one, they cannot do it. Number two, private sector must play its part as well and will bring a level of discipline and scrutiny to the projects which is which are which are needed. So that would be my response to you. It's a joint effort massively from the private sector in a smaller proportion by the public sector but one where joint effort is completely warranted and necessary. But we will be dependent on a lot of import from China and we try to be more independent of Russia. So are we just swapping the the dependence of Russia with dependence on China?
>> Look, if there is one lesson that we learned in the last few years is to be more s more security, sustainability, affordability, all of that applies as well to the uh the supply chain and the sourcing of the components. It's obvious at the moment that about 95% of the solar uh generation um various components including rare earth by the way that are needed for for some of that are in the hands of China. But we have to respond to that and there is a strategy that has been developed by the European Commission which addresses precisely the issue of rare earth in order to reach certain targets of independence. is going to take a while uh just as it will in relation to defense but we we have to to take that path and to and to travel that journey.
>> Let me offer two pathways to consider. Uh you ran the IMF brilliantly Christine uh and you study started then and Cristina Georgva has recently released a new version of the study. What would happen if governments eliminated the subsidies for fossil fuels? Many people are surprised to dig down into the realities and realize that taxpayers around the world are forced to subsidize the destruction of humanity's future. It's literally insane. The IMF study shows that if we eliminated subsidies for fossil fuel, governments around the world would have an extra 4.4 trillion dollars to spend. that happens to be just about exactly the amount that the IEA says is needed to finance the energy transition. So when people say where's the money going to come from? Well, if we stop spending it subsidizing the destruction of our future and used it for good results instead, we'd be done where the money I is concerned. a second pathway forward if I could. President Lula, who is hosting, of course, COP 30 next month, uh has recently ventured this proposal for a an alliance of countries that support the carbon border adjustment mechanisms, the C-bams, if China and the European Union, including Norway, Singapore, Australia, all combined with a border adjustment to reflect the carbon content, then that might even match uh President Trump's fondness for tariffs uh such as it is uh and we could finally in in that indirect way put a price on carbon.
>> Thank you so much. They tell me we have to stop. I can see that the audience is more optimistic now than when we met this morning and that is because of you. You are very experienced people. you have been working on this for decades and uh we knew it wouldn't be easy to uh you know form that such a big transformation but we just have to
>> carry on
>> carry on.
>> Can I make one more comment? I I know that you're in Norway you're much more punctual than we are in the United States. I know you're getting the signal. Yeah,
>> I had a I had a teacher when I was young who said frequently that we all face the same choice in life over and over again. And it's a choice between the hard right and the easy wrong. We have now reached a point in the evolution of human society where we face that choice between the hard right and the easy wrong. People say we face a poly crisis. We have a poly solution. We need to make the hard right decision to vastly accelerate the transition away from fossil fuels and build confidence that we can control our own destiny. I want young people to have the same hopefulness in looking at the future that I had when I was young. How dare we not give that to them when we know that we can. We have the ability to do it. Norway has been leading the way in the right making the right decisions. We can choose the hard right and save our future.
>> Thank you so much. Thank you so much.
>> It only remains for me to thank you so much to thank you so much for taking the time to come here. It's been an honor to have you on stage. Thank you very much. [Applause]
>> There is now going to be there's now going to be another break with coffee and some other refreshments over here and we will reconvene at 2:30. [Music] [Music] Welcome back. I hope you had a nice coffee break and that you enjoyed your ice cream. As we have heard today, a changing climate will affect the economy in many ways. This involves risks that investors need to understand. But risks also imply opportunities. And in this session, we will further explore how to approach these risks and how investors are integrating these factors into their investment decisions. We are honored to host Professor Tim Lenton as our first speaker. He's a pioneering researcher and his work identifying climate tipping points has informed the setting of the 1.5 degree climate target. As director of the global systems institute and lead author of the global tipping point report, Professor Lenton brings crucial insights on both the risks we face and the opportunities that can accelerate our transition to net zero. Please give a warm welcome to Tim. Thank you Carolene. Thanks to the governor, the deputy governor and all of the team who've been looking after me for the invite. It's great to be here. Yeah, I've been asked to talk about the risks and opportunities of both the negative and the positive tipping points. So the bad tipping points in the climate and what I call the positive tipping points in the energy transition. But if you're not sure what a tipping point is, maybe I could invite you to lean back on your chair and remind yourself, right? Because we all know, we all know that you can get to a certain balance point where a small nudge one way or the other, it might take you back into one stable state, um, the preferable one for you and the chair, but a tiny nudge in the other direction could send you in a self-propelling transition into a very different stable state of the system, you and the chair. Well, this could be, as we'll see, uh, Greenland ice sheet, no Greenland ice sheet, or it could be economy powered by fossil fuels or economy powered by renewables. These are different stable states of a system. Now, it's a bit more subtle in the complex systems of the climate and the economy. And what I'm doing in this little movie is uh we see the system the ball rolling around in the valley in the left hand stable state but the system's being forced in a way that that initial state with the incumbents is getting less stable over time. So some damping feedbacks that maintain the status quo are getting weaker and some amplifying feedbacks within this system are getting stronger until when it reaches the tipping point they're strong enough to support a self-propelling change. and I could stop forcing the system. The change would continue. It's self-propelling. It's supported by internal amplifiers. It's abrupt. It's hard to reverse. The actual time scale of transition is going to depend on the system in question. Some systems are very fast by human time scales, like tipping monsoons. Some are very slow, like tipping ice sheets. But nevertheless, you can get into an irreversible transition. Yeah. So, let's start with the bad news. the tipping points, some of the tipping points in the climate system. A little summary here from several years ago now, where in the black with the white writing, you see a little short summary of some of what I called the tipping elements in the climate system and some of the evidence that change was accelerating in a in the wrong direction, in a bad direction in these systems. And they mark the kind of targets on the map. But you also see the arrows connecting these key parts of the climate system. And they're they're to convey the knowledge that we had even then that there are causal interactions in the climate. And tipping one thing unfortunately tends to make tipping another more likely in the climate system. There's a few cases where it would go the other way around, but overwhelmingly I'm I'm afraid tipping one thing would make tipping another more likely. And I won't try to walk you through all the science of what I sketched there, but hopefully you're already aware that the Arctic is warming at an extraordinary rate, four times faster than the planetary average, largely because we're what's a very reflective white surface of sea ice is being replaced by a very dark ocean surface that absorbs a lot more sunlight. That warming Arctic is, of course, a key reason why the Greenland ice sheets melting at an accelerating rate and pouring fresh water into the North Atlantic. That warmer Arctic means more rain and snowfall actually another source of fresh water. And all that addition of fresh water into the North Atlantic is interfering with the thing in the middle here which is just called Atlantic circulation. And later on I'll talk about it as the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation or AOK. But but you'll see why you want to care about that because that is a crucial connector of the climate system. And it currently moves an enormous amount of heat from the southern hemisphere to the norm northern hemisphere particularly to northwest Europe. And in so doing it sets the position of the monsoons or the around the tropics. Losing that circulation would severely disrupt monsoons in West Africa and India uh and and in North and South America for example. And losing this circulation would leave heat behind in the southern ocean which would be the threat add to the threat of tipping the loss of major ice sheets there. I won't give you all the details of the impacts of each of these tipping elements, but if I was to just focus on the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets, between them, they contain enough ice to raise the world's sea levels by more than 10 meters. And as you'll see, we find it hard to rule out that they couldn't be past a tipping point already. Okay, so this is what our summary of 20 25 years of intergovernmental panel on climate change reports has to say about where does tipping where does crossing these major tipping points become more likely. Well, it sort of goes from yellow to red where it becomes as likely as not. So we used to think these were high impact, you might say low likelihood events because we thought it would take four or five degrees of global warming centigrade to cross major tipping points in the climate. Uh unfortunately over time as we look harder as we learn more that that temperature level comes down so that now we've been agreeing for over five years that we're already in the danger zone uh effectively where these are no longer high impact low likelihood events we're talking about they're starting to become high impact well as likely as not events shall we say and meanwhile we've been pushing the temperature up. So any risk manager should look at this information with great alarm um and be moved to act because crucially the the threats I'm talking about here as I tried to convey with the chair once they're underway they're very difficult to reser reverse and carry major damages as we'll see. So just last week we launched our global tipping points report 2025 and we're saying to the world for the first time we've crossed a climate tipping point. This is the one for widespread dieback of coral reefs in the tropics in warm warm waters. Why should I care? You might be thinking. Apart from this is a beautiful biodiverse ecosystem but it does support the livelihoods of an estimated more than 500 million people, many rich fisheries and of course coral reefs provide really important coastal protection in a world of rising sea levels and storm surges to all of the real estate behind the reefs around many coastlines of the tropics. So this is a big deal for humans as well as the fact that this is a quarter of marine species hosted on the world's coral reefs. So, here's a little summary from last week's report of some of the tipping points and the and their sort of uncertain where is the tipping point in temperature. We're never quite sure, but we know the risk goes up with the temperature. I just talked about the reefs already now we think committed to a widespread loss because after all in the last two years when global temperatures have been we hope temporarily at 1.5 degrees C uh we've seen more than 80% of the reefs suffering severe bleaching events dieback with marine heat waves. But there's a few other things on here. I've mentioned that the ice sheet on West Antarctica and on Greenland, we can't rule out that both are actually close to or possibly past a tipping point. making a commitment to a very large magnitude of long-term sea level rise. We also know now that the Amazon rainforest could be at risk both from the combined effects of global warming and of people continuing to deforest it at a lower level of warming than we thought before. Essentially, when we get into the 1 and a half to two degrees range and we're all going to sail past 1.5 degrees centigrade of global warming in the next five or so years, best estimate in 2030. So, we're heading into a danger zone of these tipping more of these tipping points becoming more likely. I just want to talk briefly about a couple of coupled tipping points in the Atlantic Ocean circulation which is kind of the Atlantic bit of this. Right. So here's a little movie of the great sort of thermma halaline circulation of the ocean and we want to concentrate on these are the surface currents heading northwards the Gulf Stream as we call it giving us a relatively equable climate over here in Oslo especially in the UK there's two places where deep water forms up in the North Atlantic either side of Greenland so waters are heading north in the Atlantic in the Gulfream heat is being lost to the atmosphere as they head North fresh water is being evaporated to the atmosphere as they get go north. The waters are therefore getting colder and they're getting saltier which means they're getting denser either side of Greenland. They get dense enough to we call it deep convect to sink from the top of the ocean to thousands of meters down and to drive this great overturning circulation which then has this blue cold flow thousands of meters down coming back south down the Atlantic. We know that this thing can be tipped off. It's switched on and off 25 times during the last ice age and the end of the last ice age. Why? What happens? We So, we know there's an alternative stable state just like the chair. What happens if we tip the collapse of the Atlantic overturning circulation? Well, it happens in some of the state-of-the-art climate models at 2 C of global warming. It actually happens at less than two degrees C in some of the models. Here's an example of a highresolution climate model. There's quite a lot going on on the slide, but um it's highlighting what's happening to the winters over much of Europe because what the the take-home message here is although the summers remain beset by heat waves worse than today, suddenly the seasonality of our climate in northwest Europe changes radically. And the winters, well, let's start on the right. What happens is we lose this major transport of heat. So in the winters, the se the Arctic sea ice makes a stunning recovery. uh by December it's down to here. By January it's uh cover it's covering the seas where we are in Oslo. By February it's almost reached the tempames and is covering most of the North Sea. That's why the decadal climate extremes in this after this tipping point include temperatures well where are we about -40 C is the decadal extreme in Oslo in this climate in the winter. In Edinburgh, it's minus30 degrees C and 5 and a half months of the year are frozen solid. In Edinburgh, in London, it's what is it? Minus 20 degrees C, but three months of the year are frozen. I don't know about Norway. I mean, you're used to snow, but in the UK, this will be an absolute infrastructure catastrophe. Uh we we're hopeless when it snows. So, that's a big impact on Northwest Europe after this tipping point. This is a crude estimate of what it does to the global viable area for growing two major staple crops. Purple means loss of viable area. Dark purple means almost complete loss. Uh there's a lot of widespread um drying and this winter cooling that severely impairs um the potential to grow these crops reducing the global viable area by more than a half in by our estimation. So in simple terms, a food security crisis underllay by a water security crisis. So that was the bad news. That should give you enough to ponder to make you think we really should be doing everything in our power to try and avoid that risk. And are we doing in everything in our power to decarbonize the economy and get to zero emissions? Obviously, we aren't. How much faster do we need to be going in decarboning decarbonizing the economy do you think to have a reasonable odds of limiting warming now below 2 C? Well, my friend Simon Sharp wrote a book about it. He said we need to go five times faster. Unfortunately, I've had to redo the calculations because we haven't been going five times faster since he wrote the book and now we need to be going probably seven times faster. We need a spectacular acceleration of the action that is happening in decarbonizing the economy. But we're looking at needing to go an order of magnitude faster. Which is why I spent a couple of years trying to convince myself and write a book here on positive tipping points about the evidence that in some sectors and in some markets we have seen a spectacular positive tipping points to clean technology and also some changes in behavior that we need. So let's just quickly land the idea here. It's the same concept. There are alternative stable states of the economy. There's the fossilfueled economy propped up by lots of damping feedbacks. Vice President Gore mentioned those, the subsidies for example. There's an alternative state of the economy powered by renewable energy, battery storage, all the rest of it. That that that's for many of us will be a more profitable as well as a much cleaner and healthier one to live in. There's a barrier between them. But there's some evidence that actions can affect the balance of feedbacks in the system and have done as we'll see for key markets and sectors in a way that needs to happen. We need the kind of actions that are going to destabilize the current state of the system and propel the change into the alternative state is a simple argument. So can I convince you that we could change really fast in key technologies? Let's start with a historical example. This is Fifth Avenue um in Manhattan, New York. Uh Easter Day Parade in the year 1900. And your job is to spot as everybody parades on the street uh and drives around also in the road. Everyone in the road is uh parading around in their horsedrawn carriage by by one person in an early automobile. Can you see them in the photograph? Yes. Well done. Well done. There they are. Let's fast forward 13 years to another photograph of Easter Day Parade in New York City uh in 1913. And you have to spot the one person left in a horsedrawn carriage. Everybody else is in an early automobile. Can you see them? Same place on the street. Aha. Now there's a tipping point in personal mobility that unfolded pretty quick. Um in tipping points, it's all about amplifying feedback. So what were the amplifiers here? Well, there was a bit of a fashion craze going on. You know, when some people got a car, other people thought, "Oh, I want one of those." And we just we have a habit and researchers call it social contagion. But we have a habit just for simply imitating each other's uptake decisions sometimes. And that can that can snowball. But of course, there are really powerful amplifiers in technology innovation. The more early cars that got built, the better they got and the cheaper they got. Um the Model T being the famous example when it first comes on the market in the mid1900s costs about $900 and something dollars for the standard model with within less than a decade the price had fallen to less than $300. And this is because of economies of scale. The famous model Henry Ford's famous production line the more cars you built um the cheaper the unit cost. But also that as a rule with technology the more we make it the better we get at making it. and the more attractive the product becomes. With the early um gasoline cars, uh that was clearly the case. But there's also a thing I'd call technology reinforcement. We tend to in innovation, we tend to put technologies together to make when a new technology arises, put it together with other technologies, make it more useful. For early gasoline cars, the crucial thing was arguably the electric starter motor which took away the pain of cranks starting them. But also, of course, gas stations and roads got built. So a lot of complimentary technology. Well, that was history. Now, as you've seen here, you are leading the world in the tipping point we need in this sector from internal combustion engine vehicles to electric vehicles. Norway can be rightly proud of having led the world in a very abrupt transition in the market from one to the other. And as an aside, yes, some crucial policy support um enabled this. But that policy support in camea in turn came from social activists. And I think you you the audience should know this story. So I won't tell it to you because I'll use up all my time. that members of the pop band ahaar and their architect friend Harold Rossik for example um they in pictured here in 1989 uh publicized a set of I think it was nine policy demands that they wanted the Norwegian government to adopt to incentivize the transition to EVs. It was a decade long battle to get those adopted but it's it's a key part of the reason for Norway tipping first. However, we need to be thinking about the global picture here and we got to remind ourselves again of amplifying feedbacks because whilst it took the policy support to tip the Norwegian market in a global sense, the more electric vehicles that uh get adopted and there they are, that's the total fleet worldwide growing exponentially with a doubling time of a year and a half. um the better and the cheaper they get because all the dotted lines in the left axis is the price of the batteries plummeting and it's continued to plummet down here 20 or 30% decline in price just last year and the range you can get out of a given m mass of battery has gone up a factor of roughly three in this time phenomenal so those are crucial amplifiers it means you know we don't we're not going to need at some point the supportive policies that we needed initially here in Norway and in other markets to get to the point where this is just the most it's ob it's the obvious choice for the consumer. It's both the cheapest and the best technology and then as it as it snowballs what that means is batteries are getting cheaper and cheaper all the time and that has some other collateral benefits. So first you tip the global car market but then you tip the other part of road transport which together make up like 14% of greenhouse gas emissions which is electrifying trucking goods transport passes its own tipping point. And then of course uh when you calculate the fact that the market is already tipping to EVs as we've done you find that there's a lot of stranded oil asset already out there that's mispriced. And we can debate in the coffee break or whatever how how many trillions of dollars worth of asset is already stranded. But uh but with the tipping there's a lot of oil that companies thought they were going to be able to sell in the future which there won't be demand for. But the a really important connection to my final point is around the connection to the positive tipping point for renewable energy because cheap batteries as vice president Gore told us are a key part of balancing renewable electricity supply and demand and they're coming flooding in from the transition in the power sector. So I just wanted to show you that tipping points can happen in the power sector. And this is my parochial example from the UK, how we've turned away from 40% coal powered uh electricity in 2012 to zero today and it fell off a cliff thanks, by the way, to a very modest price on carbon, a floor price that was stepped up over time, but was at a very low level that made coal burning unprofitable. And contrary to what you heard this morning, gas did not in the long run replace coal burning in the UK. The 40% of power we got from coal that was temporarily for a stock grat replaced with gas is now thoroughly replaced by renewables because the offshore wind is just getting cheaper and cheaper and cheaper the more we deploy it. And so we're happy we're energy secure or more than we were. But of course in the glo and this is irreversible now in the UK. It's led to utility companies re realize they're sitting on a an asset they're not using and it's expensive just to keep it there. So they destroy the coal burning power stations. But in the global picture, we obviously want to think about these fantastic amplifiers. The more solar panels we make, the cheaper as well as the better they get. And then this is the famous curve for solar panels, the learning curve. They come down in price a quarter for every doubling of installed capacity. And the installed capacity is doubling about every two years at the moment. So this is a phenomenal amplifier in the system. Our modeling suggests that it's now we're now in an inevitable or tipping to solar p becoming the dominant source of electricity by midcentury. We pro we can all agree we need still need to go faster. Um but yeah the calculations from the team at exter 23 solar or wind was the cheapest source of power factoring the price of battery storage in much of the world. They're both getting cheaper, but solar's getting cheaper faster, which is why it's set to dominate. So, there's one more thing to say. There's a good news story. I told you about bad tipping cascades in the climate, but there's a good news story that positive tipping points in different sectors of the economy can start to reinforce one another. So I told you that those batteries that are coming overwhelmingly out of the car sector um are really helpful in supporting the transition to renewables depressing the price of electricity storage. But obviously as renewable electricity gets cheaper that incentivize even more driving around in an electric vehicle it's even cheaper to move around than it was. Same for electrifying uh trucks and for residential heating. So without going into all the details we model this stuff out. We model uh in 71 world regions um with the best data we can to calibrate the model. Um what would what would happen to the power sector, heating, uh cars and trucks under the current policies heading out to 2050? Well, the power sector is tipping anyway. Um but I'm afraid trucking certainly isn't. Cars is um and are we getting heat pumps? We can look at the effects of carbon pricing at 200 euros per ton of CO2 from 2025 onwards. It does something but not a great deal. Uh the simple take-home message from looking at different policy options is in in our work, the way to stimulate the innovation that activates the amplifying feedbacks of learning by doing and in economies of scale is for leaders, policy makers to have the courage to mandate the phasing out of the fossil fuel technologies and the phasing in of the clean technologies. So ban the sale of petrol and diesel cars in your market, banning gas boilers at some point in the future, banning diesel trucks and so on. that is overwhelmingly the most powerful policy lever to activate the feedbacks that can positively tip the system. So to summarize, I tried to tell you that we sadly we've already crossed an important climate tipping point and every fraction of a degree of warming and every year over one and a half degrees of warming is going to increase the risk of crossing more of those. I've tried to show you that uh the big bad one, the amo collapse could happen below two degrees C of warming. it gets more likely the more it gets warmer. And I've been polite in saying it would make Northwest Europe less habitable. I was tempted to say uninhabitable. It was and could cause global food insecurity. So that's the kind of risk we have to do everything in our power to avoid. But unfortunately, we can't change we can't get out of trouble by changing incrementally. The numbers just do not stack up. The only way now to meet the Paris agreement to limit warming, whatever you mean by well below two degrees C, is to activate some positive tipping points that accelerate the change we need. But I tried to show you that already that's happening in some key markets and sectors and we know something about the policies, the actions that can be most effective in bringing those tipping points forward. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you so much. It was very interesting to hear your presentation. Our next speaker is Professor Laura Starks. She is professor of finance at the University of Texas and one of the world's leading authorities on sustainable finance and ESG investing. Professor Starks has had a long and distinguished collaboration with Norusbank Investment Management. For more than a decade, she has contributed to the fund's responsible investment strategy. She will talk about the role climate information has in investment decisions.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much. This has been just a fascinating day and we've learned so much about climate change and policy and I want to talk about um the the how climate information is used in investment decisions and and and what we know about this from academic research. So before talking about that, I think we have to think about the motivations because the motivations for incorporating climate information vary across investors in fact can vary quite a bit and um and we have evidence on this from both surveys as well as um uh what investors have done. So their actions um so the motivations depend on the perspective of the investor. So it can be a values perspective, it can be a value perspective and and when we when we think about the values perspective that has to do with non-puniary, non-financial, it's it's people's it's it's what they value. And so if we think about the um the actually the council on ethics is an example of this where decisions are being made based on values. The value perspective is what we think about with investors. What they make their decisions based on is looking at the financial information thinking about how this the risk and return opportunities that come from using the climate information. So we have these two differences and I think I think this is understood in Norway. I think there are a lot of people in my country that do not understand these differences. Um but it's it's important when we're looking at how they're how these decisions are being made. So I want to use a survey of um large institutional investors to point out some of the differences in their motivations. So we surveyed um 439 large institutional investors around the world asking them why they incorporated climate risk information into their investment decisions. And this shows the top um six, seven of these. Uh and and actually we had expected that we would find one that would would be more than the others, but they could choose more than one. But even with that, we found quite a bit of variety in what they chose. And we can separate these into values versus value perspectives. So if we think about the value perspective, it's um uh you know what are what are the uh return opportunities? It's it's beneficial to investment return. Um it reduces overall portfolio risk. It reduces tail risk. These are clearly financial value motivations. On the other hand, there are values motivations where they're looking at um is you know what are the asset owner's preferences? Is it a moral ethical obligation? Um and so those two, you know, would be would be um the value and then there are two that I think are a blend. It's it's it's both values and value that protects our reputation and it's a legal obligation fiduciary duty. So when we think about the motivations, we need to think about this variety of motivations across institutional investors. We also can see evidence from investor actions. In other words, you know, what what are the portfolios that they're holding? Um and and again, we can see the motivations from these and then how do they change their portfolio. So I'm going to give you a couple of examples just to just to show this. uh one is some research that I've done that we wanted to test the hypothesis that long-term institutional investors should be the ones most interested in the environmental, social and governance policies of their uh invest investy firms. And so again, the the fund is um a real example of this long-term investor that is is looking at the ESNG uh aspects of their portfolios. So what this graph shows is um along here, this is measuring the average portfolio ESG score. So taking all of the firms that are in their portfolio and measuring the ESG score and then uh and then we used their portfolios to determine well what were their horizons? How long were they holding the the firms? And as you can see, it was really clear that it's those with the long-term horizon that that are are um holding the high ESG firms and you know the E one of the big things in there is climate change and then um and then the shortterm horizon and it you know it was very monotonic um in terms of how this how this came out. So that's some evidence of how uh information is being used by the investors. Another one is more directly related and this comes from the bond market. So what happened when the Paris agreement was signed? The the regulatory risk would be expected to go up because um the the firms that that were most exposed to climate change exposure are going to are going to have face more regulations in order for countries to be able to meet what they promised they would do. So we looked at price changes uh for those bonds and we also looked at at the credit rating analyst changes in uh credit ratings and we found that and and here I'm showing we did very sophisticated analysis. This one I think it just shows through so clearly. So we So if you look um this has the largest carbon emission industries uh and and what their credit ratings look like before and after uh the Paris agreement uh and I'm I'm sorry this is their spreads what their yield spreads on the bonds look like what return was being required um and and so like electric gas and sanitary petrol petroleum and coal oil gas extraction and so forth. Uh and the blue is the average spread before the Paris agreement. The red is the average spare spread after the Paris agreement. And if we look at a couple of industries, the oil and gas extraction, not surprisingly, it it the the yield spread went up. In other words, people had to be uh compensated. The bond investors needed to be compensated for the greater risk that they were taking on. And then if we look at um the metal mining industry, you can see that before the um the Paris agreement uh uh it was it was uh the spreads were lower than after. Again, more risk was being taken on. This is looking at the credit ratings and looking what happened at the credit rating. So this is taking it on a monthly basis using other um other firms as control. And so this blue line shows what happened to the credit ratings where this red line in the middle is the uh the month of the of the Paris agreement. And as you can see there there was basically no difference before the Paris agreement in terms of um the the um the credit ratings and then after the Paris agreement there was a big drop in credit ratings for those firms that were most exposed to carbon emissions. And we used a number of different uh we used carbon intensity, those that had the top carbon intensity, those that had the top absolute carbon emissions, and those that had below uh median environmental score. And all of the pictures look the same. Okay. So if we if we one of the things that we ask in the survey is what what approaches do you use to incorporate climate risk information into your investment decision making and the top one was analyzing the carbon footprint of portfolio firms. 38% did that and then out of out of the total 29% use that information to reduce the carbon footprint of their portfolio firm. So they're using um carbon emissions data to understand the the risk that these firms are facing because of um the carbon emissions and also the values investors are going to be using this in order to understand the impact that these firms are having on the environment. Uh and then another one was uh uh Tim was talking about the the stranded asset risk. Well, they analyzed their stranded 35% analyze their stranded asset risk and um 23% took efforts to reduce that stranded asset risk. Uh we also found they had they had others you know just diversifying their portfolio or or using ESG integration which would which would take into account um the environmental part of it. Um and and but one of the things that was somewhat striking about this was devestment that not many were using devestment as a tool for um for incorporating climate risk. Okay. So, I want to talk about climate risk disclosure because in order to get the information that's needed on the the the climate information about a company, there needs to be adequate disclosure. So, if you think about the disclosure, you know, the financial market efficiency depends on having enough information. And not only does there need to be enough information, but it needs to be high quality information um and and for us to to be able to to incorporate that information and for the the market to correctly price um the the carbon risk and then it's also being uh in a central bank. We need sound disclosure on climate risk which is as I would argue is essential for regulatory efforts to protect um financial stability. So so so there's a need for this climate risk disclosure uh which is varies around the world and how much there there needs to be. Um so we asked the investors what they thought about the need for climate risk disclosure compared to regular financial reporting. Um so this is so so we ask how important do you think climate risk disclosure is compared to reporting on financial information? 51% said it was equal. 18% said it was more important and 10% said it was much more important. Uh so 79% believed that it was at least as important as financial reporting. Now I do have to caution you that our our survey people were more likely to respond to this survey if they were interested in climate risk. So we do have a little bias in this survey. But I would also argue that these are the investors who are going to be incorporating climate risk the most. So they're the ones we wanted to understand the most. Okay. So if you think about mandatory climate risk disclosure there there can be two goals again we have we can have we can have mixed um goals from the investors who want this. The first goal is often called single materiality and it's you know it's to get the information in order to understand how climate risk is affecting the firm and its risk. Um so this I would argue is a value perspective. The second goal which is can be called double materiality is not only how does it affect the firm and its risk but how is this impacting um the firm's actions are affecting society and the environment. So, you know, this I would argue includes the values perspective. Um, so, so these are these are two important goals for having mandatory climate risk disclosure. But there are challenges in this climate risk information and people don't always think about these challenges. The first one is what do you use if you're trying to compare firms in terms of their emissions? Um do you use uh an environmental score? Do you use um absolute carbon emissions? Do you use carbon intensity? And one thing that's very important about this is there's a debate in the academic finance literature over which is the appropriate thing to use because if you think about the absolute carbon emissions that's well how far do you have to go to to to get to net zero. So it tells you something about about the risk. Whereas if you use carbon intensity, then your your um uh you've got either sales or um assets underneath. So so you may be lowering how much this company is doing because you're not looking at their absolute emissions. There's also availability and biases in the data. Um bec based on these we have um the voluntary disclosure. you're so for example with um CDP you're going to have fewer firms and as I'm going to show you some potential selection bias if um there's other sources for estimation estimated emissions but then the problem with that is well what's being used to estimate the emissions and if we have this bias from the voluntary disclosure then what kind of bias do we have in the estimation proced procedure. So it's an important question that needs to be considered. If we had mandatory climate risk disclosure then we would not have this issue. Um and so let me give you an example. This is um from um the CDP and you can see the the pink here is um uh climate, the blue is water, the green is forest and then they've just started uh getting the let me get this biodiversity and um and plastics. And so you can see let's just take the climate one. there has been this increase over time um this on a worldwide basis but it's obvious there are a lot of firms that have not been reporting and so we are missing those firms and which firms are the ones that are less likely to report they're going to be the ones that we probably really want to know their information um and and to give you another example of This uh this is from the CDP's uh website and it shows um this is the most recent data on their carbon emissions coverage and it shows you know for the for the Footsie Euro first 300 91% of the firms are reporting to CDP S&P 500 it's still just 86%. Um if we look at the world index from MSCI it's only 61%. If we look at Australia it's 27%. And then if we look at at Shanghai it's 18%. So we're missing the reporting from a number of firms. Um, it's also if the EPA in the US uh tells firms they don't have to report their emissions anymore to the EPA, we're going to have even less information which makes it more difficult for investors. Okay. So, so one other thing that investors do is engagement. um they the investors are are um using the climate information to engage with the firms to try to to get the firms to be more responsible when it comes to climate change. Um and it it's one thing that the fund does and has for many years. So, so we ask well what are you doing in terms of engagement and um and we found that 43% are holding discussions with management uh about the financial implications of of climate risk. 32% are proposing specific actions to management on climate risk issues. Um and then 30% um vote against management on on proposals at the annual meeting. Um and 30% also were submitting shareholder proposals on climate risk issues. And then uh 30% were questioning management on a conference call about climate risk issues. And there's evidence that those questions uh were really ramping up over time uh showing the the interest in that. Um we found that only 16% did nothing. So 84% of the um investors that we surveyed are engaging the firms in various ways to try to get more climate information and to get them to be more responsible. when it came to climate uh we also found that it can make a difference when it becomes mandatory to release the information. So when the um French article 173 was passed in 2015 um went into effect in 2016. It's really an interesting article because what it said was or law what it said was that the um the institutional investors had to report on on the climate risk of their portfolios. There was no law about the firms doing this only the investors but the investors would have to get the information from the firms in order to be able to report correctly. Um and so what we found was the climate risk disclosure of firms that were held more by French institutions um uh went up significantly. They disclose much more. So so there is this again this is shows that there can be an indirect effect from um uh from uh um mandatory climate change. Okay. So another thing about engagement is does it work? So we looked at the engagement of one big um uh company and um investor and and whether they were successful and we looked at the downside risk of whether they were successful. Um and um what we found was that their engagements that had to do with sustainability and particularly climate change uh reduced the downside risk which we measured in various ways and the risk reduction effects were stronger for the more successful engagements and they were also stronger uh when when it was environmental particularly climate change. Okay. So overall the um uh in terms of what we know about about climate risk information, investors care about climate risk. They um they use and value climate risk information. Um their motivations for doing so varies between the value and values perspective and I think that's an important thing to keep in mind. Um they employ a number of different approaches um in their use of the climate risk information. We still have challenges that exist with the lack of information and investor engagement on climate risk has been successful. So, thank you very much. Thank you so much for your very informative insights. We are now close to the end of this conference and the final speaker will enlighten us on the risk and return of climate investments. It is my privilege to introduce Professor Harrison Hong from Columbia University. His honors include the Fiser Black Prize awarded to the most outstanding American finance economist under the age of 40. His contributions have been fundamental to behavioral finance and stock market efficiency and have shaped how we understand financial markets. Professors Hong's collaboration with Nisbank Investment Management and his pioneering work in climate finance stretch back nearly a decade. Please give a warm welcome to Harrison Hong.
>> Great. Thanks so much. Uh thanks so much for having me. Um so I'm going to uh wrap up and uh I think I was given the uh the mandate of uh just you know say something about everybody's talk basically and just wrap up so we can all leave. Uh so uh I'm going to l luckily luckily I and this was like purely by coincidence. I'm going to pick up on Christine Lagard's speech which I thought was really amazing and I think it really kind of highlights uh really just so perfectly uh of the key issues we we face you know in Europe I think in the US and globally uh regarding kind of the types of climate investments that um that that that we have to kind of think about making and and and how should we think about making these investments. Um all right so let me just start with so you know I think the conventional wisdom uh at least sort of as as as as sort of um a more novice climate economics uh finance researcher is that look you know concerns about global warming uh about climate disasters is going to kind of push societies uh toward embracing renewables. Okay, moving away from fossil fuels and and going to uh kind of wind and solar. uh this you know is primarily going to happen uh at least you know historically through governments you know fiscalizing and subsidizing uh this transition. So like I think for instance in in in Europe you know feed and tariffs particularly in Germany have been a huge tool towards getting the German economy to to to embrace renewables. Uh in the US uh it's been more like renewable portfolio standards especially in liberal states in the US that really powered uh uh the transition. So that if you look at the power sector, you know, the news is not sort of horrible, right? I mean, even in the United States, absent like a sort of this antipathy towards climate concerns, you know, we're still getting about close to now almost maybe 30 40% of the power in the US is is is renewable power. And you know, I think kind of the second layer of the story is that I think, you know, people recognize that this is probably kind of not enough. And so we're going to lean on other stuff. So, so in the medium term before we get all these amazing uh carbon sucking machines from Bill Gates, uh we're going to have to lean on mother nature to provide some solutions, right? This is sort of NBS, these naturebased solutions. And you know, that's going to fill in some of the gap. And I think a lot of that is driving you know this this uh a lot of uh practical research on how do we measure the capture of uh the sequestration of carbon uh by by restoring uh ecosystems and also uh the extent to which uh um we can kind of develop voluntary credit uh carbon markets to kind of facilitate essentially uh uh this this this type of solution. and and and you know kind of in the background uh there's some sense that we're going to need adaptation uh right uh and I think as Saul mentioned earlier you know we don't see a lot of evidence of of kind of adaptation yet but but we know that this stuff exists right so you know ultimately you know we're going to need some seaw walls if the sea levels keep rising uh maybe we put some you know houses on stilts uh you know obviously we can come up with more ways of doing uh air conditioning etc etc okay but but typically adaptation is not I think front and center relative to mitigation, you know, because there's a lot of private incentives to adapt, right? You know, so you don't think about it in kind of this this this kind of real uh it's not front and center in climate economics because there's just a lot of incentives at a private level to do some adaptation. Okay. Uh so, so let me show you this picture uh kind of you know this this morning I I had to submit new slides because after I saw these other people's slides, I felt very jealous that I did not have enough figures. So I quickly I quickly got chachi to kind of make a figure for me which probably caused a huge amount of global warming with the amount of energy that is spent uh to do it in 15 minutes. Uh but so so here here's kind of what I want to kind of talk about which is you know all of this kind of conventional wisdom translates into a notion of a green investment thesis right that we're going to go from owning a bunch of smoke stacks. So remember all of this assets are owned by us meaning like society and you know in aggregate some smoke stacks you know we own a bunch of these uh uh um you know uh oil drilling rigs you know and we've got a bunch of gu you know car guzzlers and and and we have very you know uh uh lots of you know cement uh infrastructure okay so so that's a portfolio and I put some kind of tick ticker symbols you know this represents uh the assets that society has owned and that's been kind of the thing of this generated so much uh uh wealth for us right during the indust you know following the industrial revolution now with kind of the climate crisis you know we're going to have to sort of start converting right so we're going to not we're not going to have the smoke stacks we're going to now just own a bunch of these windmills right you know we're going to have windmills everywhere uh typically kind of off the coast but uh in the US for instance you know you should put a lot of windmills in Malibu but of course a lot of people who live in Malibu don't want windmills in Malibu because they pay millions of dollars uh for their homes so that a bunch of windmills can be like blocking their sides of the ocean, right? Uh so we have to have this transition into sort of owning and developing all of these other assets. Uh because the assets might also be for instance of course we've done a much better job with owning we now have more uh uh electric vehicles and that would be some set of investments and also uh we're doing a lot more with like you know forest and reforestation etc. Okay. So somewhere along the way we kind of have to ask ourselves what is the optimal portfolio from the point of view of society of all of these assets. Now I'm a finance economist. And so as finance economists everything basically you know no matter how what I look at always comes back to my finance economist training which is of course risk right when we own these assets right um you know it's great all and well all these issues about climate that's what you know governments are supposed to kind of help us deal with but from the point of view of households and what's our preference for the allocation of assets typically what you want is you want some diversification Right? You don't want to be too loaded on one set of assets because who knows, right? There's always some types of risk that might kind of happen. Okay? And and I want you to think a little bit about that because ultimately uh uh uh the problem that Christine Lagard talked about was was res, you know, she framed it as, you know, impediments, right, to owning like a 100% of our our portfolio being green assets. like why aren't investors embracing more charging a lower cost of capital to embrace these kind of green assets? What's what's causing this? And I think she kind of mentioned appropriately uh there might be kind of like a lack of capital market integration might in Europe might be causing it. But the other explanation is just just risk, right? uh you know, maybe we're not meant to go to 100% green assets is because even with the externalities and all this other stuff just from a portfolio diversification perspective, maybe we're 50/50, right? Maybe these economies are going to just basically our economy is going to have to have a mix of these different assets. So that is to say, you know, when we were all brown economy, you know, going into some initial green was actually you didn't even really need to have the government deal with that. You want to have some diversification anyways, right, as an investor. But as we get to sort of more 5050 uh or whatever 6040 you know these issues of portfolio diversification of how much of our risk budget we want to allocate to green assets becomes much more critical and that's what I'm going to touch on okay is to try to think about uh these issues from a kind of a real portfolio allocation lens a portfolio lens and thinking about uh diversification okay so let me kind of talk about the first set in features so why has the transition been so so successful of course the cost of renewables have dropped a lot. You know, this is kind of the China thing. This is kind of a bunch of different things, but but essentially this is a plot of uh the cost of brown capacity, wind capacity, and solar capacity. So, solar is in green, wind is in uh uh blue, and brown is um uh at the bottom in black. And you know you can see like in 2012 right uh capacity for Brown you know we're talking about you know uh twice as expensive uh in in in terms of uh solar and you know for for wind I think uh it was just you know it was crazy it was like kind of five times more expensive three times more expensive but of course for a variety of different reasons you know uh technological progress uh we've basically kind of come down a lot so so now first of all I'll call this is like the sillion first moment effects right that you know from a first moment perspective, these assets are are kind of pretty close to each other, right? But I think what hasn't been discussed as much uh is really kind of these second moment effects. And I think Christine nailed it on the head. You know, she spent an enormous amount of time talking about second moment effects, right? You know, I mean like like was amazing. I was like shocked actually like when I heard the speech. I was like wow, right? uh because I I think this is exactly kind of a front and center the transparent issues that we need to kind of confront which is the second moment effects which I think has been mostly like neglected uh but hopefully with Christine's speech is going to be more front and center which is that you know and this was kind of a headline uh uh in Germany right uh there was this kind of historic lack of wind and you know their economy was a lot of was kind of built on this wind power done by these feeding tariffs for like almost like a couple of decades So during this episode where year on year there was this massive drop in in in in wind in in Germany um a substantial fraction of their renewable companies kind of basically teetered on a bankruptcy. Okay. um right not surprisingly because you know that's that's kind of this intermittency risk basically uh uh kind of manifests and I think that investors actually have recognize this more so than I think kind of climate researchers and more so than probably even I think uh climate policy makers. Okay. Um so I'm going to take this portfolio diversification lens but I'm going to ask kind of a broader question. I'm going to ask look you know for these different types of assets like renewables, nature-based solutions and adaptation capital right I'm going to focus on second moments right what do we think are the risk characteristics of these different types of capital right on the basic idea that societyy's going to want some portfolio diversification and the more risky it is the less you're going to want to tilt towards it or the other way of saying is government has to do more to fiscalize right uh to incentivize then society to kind of adopt these assets okay so the kind of the higher the risk, the more the government has to kind of step in and and give lots of kind of incentives which typically means some fiscalization of these costs. Okay. Um and it's I'm not going to kind of attribute the work because you know I kind of did this talk just kind of for this for this kind of thing but but this is kind of drawing from from different work I'm doing with different uh authors on on kind of sort of related issues. Um so let me talk about naturebased solutions. So you know uh there's a lot of interest for instance in naturebased solutions but again I would say that and and and there's been kind of lots of developments in terms of trying to like improve the efficiency of these sequestration methods but again let's talk about the second moments right so for naturebased solutions you know think about the asset class right that would basically mean forest is is one big part of the naturebased solutions compared to let's say farmland compared to let's say infrastructure right infrastructure would be more along the lines of what one would think would be adaptation capital. Now, if you look at the first moments, you know, the returns to forest have not been great, right? It's been kind of 7 to 9% historically. Uh, when you think about kind of these these these these for forest assets, you know, farmlands 10 to 11%, infrastructure is 8 to 10%. But, you know, I think first moments are always very deceptive. So, I'm not going to pay too much attention. As economists, as finance economists, what we know we can measure very well is volatility. We know we can measure volatility very, very well. Okay. And what you see with forest is that uh uh the volatility of forest assets are historically substantially higher. So that is to say, you know, if we think that we're suddenly going to have all these voluntary carbon markets and then people are going to turn forest into these like carbon credits, one big issue will be that 10 to 12% ball compared to let's say infrastructure which is only 7 to 9%. Right? Okay. And so what's causing a lot of the 10 to 10 fall of course is that you know forests are very susceptible to fires right you know you can kind of have a forest to try to do all of this uh hh sequestration but then what if you get kind of this fire and then the whole thing burns down okay so not so simple right so these types of risk investing in mother nature that is to say also has its own risk okay uh and and that's something we should kind of factor in when thinking about, you know, the the the kind of the optimal social allocation in terms of uh what we would want to address the the these these climate issues. And so if you kind of think about an economy, uh the way to think about it is, you know, there's like two different types of capital. You've got your brown capital, you've got your green capital. And critically, uh in this kind of this is a kind of a a mockup of a a typical integrated specimen model that Nord won, uh his Nobel Prize for. And and of course there's a there's a sort of a connection between you know climate and the nature of the different types of capital and then in terms of the economy being output but ultimately it's also what the investors really want to own right what's their risk preferences and how does that basically get respected in terms of the allocation of green and and and and brown capital and and I think kind of the point is that you know in these models even if you had equal productivity of with fossil fuels meaning with brown capital and green capital. Uh and if green capital itself had less climate disasters because uh it's is is more friendly. You know, you could still have the case that you could have significant impediments or headwinds toward a 100% green economy purely because of diversification. Yeah, it's very expensive to get the investor to go the last mile. If the person's already owning 30% green assets in his portfolio, making that investor go to 50% 60% is very expensive. And I would argue that that's some of the headwinds that I think Christine Lagard, I think, instinctively kind of understands. Yeah. And I think that's why she's calling for, you know, better quote unquote integration of these markets, which is exactly that. Are there things that are keeping us from kind of sharing or spreading these types of risk in terms of like uh diversifying away these risk? So, so I view the issue of uh diversification uh uh as kind of probably really kind the critical one at this point in terms of the the the green energy transition and in terms of just generally the transition towards uh uh the various types of investments that we think we're going to need uh to address the uh uh climate crisis. So, I'm going to show you some some numbers that I've kind of calculated myself uh that that kind of gives you some causal evidence that this volatility channel is pretty important uh and that is pretty important for investors. Okay. So this is a a kind of a uh you know two charts on the left uh the dotted line kind of indicates uh from the US the implementation of renewable portfolio standards. So, so the way that the US uh converted its power sector to be green is to mandate that investorowned companies, right? Produce electricity with a certain fraction of it has to be produced with uh uh uh renewable energy. Okay? So, typically a number would be like 30% or something like that. Now, what's interesting about this causal experiment is that in a number of US states, they exempted the municipal producers. Okay? So we can use the implementation of this renewable portfolio standard to understand what happens to the risk profile of power companies that were forced to own a bunch of renewable assets. Okay? And we have two sets of states. So one set of states gave municipal exemptions. So we can kind of look at the differences in terms of here in this case I showed you what happens to the volatility of electricity prices. Right? So we all know electricity prices go up. Now that's not so much of an issue in the US from the investors perspective because um the higher cost of electricity prices are just passed on to consumers. Okay. Here what I'm talking about is the second moment which is when you're forcing these companies now to suddenly produce their power with 20% 30% using renewables. What you see is that the volatility of electricity prices goes up. Okay. So that is these green assets are generating cash flows that are more volatile, right? Because that their product is basically more volatile. Okay? And and so in these in these in these uh uh states that that implemented this this renewable portfolio standard, you know, you see this increase in electricity price volatility and there's no differences of course without exemptions. In the states without exemptions, you don't see any you don't see any effect because everyone had to produce uh uh uh you know there was no exemptions that were granted and and so this is some causal evidence that says that you know uh which we attribute to intermittency risk but also could be kind of other types of risk in studenting like you know regulatory risk, political risk in other when you're embracing when you're forced to kind of own these assets you're going to have this kind of more volatile cash flow and then the credit markets. So when these firms then go and try to raise debt to make these investments into this these green assets uh they basically face like a higher cost of capital. So they're charged uh by capital markets uh a 2% uh extra uh uh credit spread which is a very big number if you kind of imply it out. It basically means that investors view renewables as something on the order of 1.5 times more volatile than fossil fuels. Okay? So that 1.5 times essentially is kind of a number I want you to keep in your head. That's kind of the drag or the impediment essentially toward going into kind of a corner solution visav uh uh green investments. Right? In other words, when you listen to kind of policy makers and which I understand there's a sort of amount of like evangelism that's kind of important, you know, there's a sense into we want to get to 100% renewables, right? All the fossil fuel assets are going to get stranded and we're going to be at 100% renewables. But if you take a and perhaps a dismal view, if you take a finance economist view, a portfolio lens, right, there's all kinds of risk in assets, right? you're always going to want some interior solution in terms of a diversification. Now, the question is kind of where you land in the interior. I mean, is it like 8020? Is it a 5050, you know, etc. Uh but but I think it's a more productive lens to think about uh uh uh uh the these these issues. At least one lens has not been I think kind of adapted as much adopted as much uh in terms of uh really I think you know research or also kind of in terms of policym. Uh so that's going to lead me to the last point. Right. So the last five minutes I'll talk about this which is that I think much underd discussed is is then of course you know adaptation capital right uh but as I think our first the very first talk uh um in the very morning right uh uh mentioned on kind of the nature of extreme weather or disaster risk is that you know no matter kind of what's happening in the decarbonization space we are going to be basically confronted with more extreme weather over of the next century, right? Okay. So, of course, you know, that's going to lead to some discussions of adaptation capital. So, as Saul mentioned, you know, you're not seeing much of this at least historically. But the question is like prospectively, right? Um given that infrastructure is only a 7 to 9% ball annual, we should also discuss not only renewables brown, but really adaptation capital as the third source of capital allocation, right? In other words, like how much adaptation capital do we want to own in our portfolio? Okay. Uh and I'll kind of show you some numbers that I think that um at least kind of going forward, right? I'm going to give you kind of an argument why going forward uh the returns of adaptation capital actually can be kind of quite high, especially kind of in this uh a kind of uncertain climate risk environment. Okay, which is if you think about adaptation capital really it's kind of insurance, right? uh kind of the way to think about adaptation capital is that look you know I'm building my house on stilts not because I love stilts but basically it's it's kind of a hedge against you know bad draws of nature right you know I'm building a seaw wall you know off of Venice not because I particularly love a seaw wall but it's there simply against like high tide right these are hedge assets right in the economy and the question is how much of these hedge assets do we want to own uh globally okay and and of course now historically Right. We've always had extreme weather and and of course, you know, we are at kind of a point where we have adapted to a certain extreme weather profile. Okay. But as we kind of go into the next hundred years, right, uh reality is going to set in because you know, like for instance, I live in New York. Uh and I most of you guys have been to New York. you know that place is not really meant for like rain and global warming you know like it's like really really bad you know summers are really really bad winters are really really lots of rain you know basically subways don't walk don't don't work you know everything basically stops just because of like two days of rain right and you know you know in the horror stories even in uh the New York Post you'll see you know people can just die you know basically the the right of passage in New York is you get to live in the basement right but you know living in the basement may not really be a feasible strategy anymore if you're going to get these flash floods. Okay, so this adaptation capital um I would argue kind of over a long horizon, right, u is probably going to have pretty high returns if the climate science is right. Okay. And so marry that with the fact that infrastructure spending typically uh has a pretty low vault, right? um you know uh that would basically predict that kind of in some longer run adaptation capital may be a pretty significant portion also of our overall uh global portfolio allocation. Okay. Um so I'm just going to leave it there. Uh but but but you know thanks for organizing the conference. It was really amazing and and I learned a lot. Excellent presentation. Thank you so much. What a great day it has been. Do you agree?
>> It's now time to wrap up. Please welcome Norisbank Investment Management's Chief Governance and Compliance Officer Karina Smith for concluding remarks. Thank you, Karolina. And I agree, what an extraordinary day this has been. Uh Harrison, I think you said you had been asked to do a wrap-up, but uh so am I. So now I'm wondering if I need to use your wrap-up in my wrap-up, but uh anyway, um I'll go back to this morning and remind you of what Nikolai showed us. the two sculpture of the capilline wolf. The famous one from Rome, the original uh a symbol of nurture and survival, mother earth. And then the lesser known outside of Oslo, a warning of what can happen if we take more than nature can give. And we are living that warning. The choices we make now, hard rights or easy wrongs as we heard today, will shape our world for decades and beyond. So, I recently became a grandmother. Um, and when my granddaughter turns 25, it will be 2050, the year we aim to achieve net zero. What world will she inherit? How will climate change affect the global economy and her future? We heard from uh the governor, our governor this morning that climate change affect everything, all our core missions at Nordisbank. For the central bank, it impacts financial stability and inflation. And for us in the fund, it's a systematic financial risk that's already affecting the markets. So we are a fund for current and future generations. A sustainable fund is this depend on a sustainable economy but also a living planet and the three are inseparable and the conference today have made that evident. So, what are my key takeaways from today's speakers? Well, one, the science is clear. Last year was the warmest year on record and the physical impacts of climate change are intensifying. Then two, the economics are concerning. Global GDP per capita has already fallen significantly due to climate impacts. Then three, the path forward is complex. The transition to net zero is neither simple, linear nor uniform. And this means operating in an environment of extreme uncertainty. Then four, change can happen faster than we think. Tipping points, both negative but also positive, shows that the um transformation can accelerate rapidly. And then five, markets are already responding. The transition to net zero represents one of the largest capital reallocation in history. The big wheel is turning and the transformation is happening. So the conversation between President Lagard and former Vice President Gore drew these threads together and they also reminded us of the urgency. 10 years have passed since Paris. We are now in the decisive decade for achieving an orderly transition. Now how is this connected with the work we do at the farm? So we have worked with climate risk for nearly two decades. Our current climate action plan which concludes this year set the bold ambition for our portfolio companies to reach net zero emissions at the latest by 2050. And it's great to see the companies have made progress. Climate targets now cover around three quarters of our portfolio emissions and that's up from just over half in 2022. And also our portfolio emissions are slowly reducing. But as today has shown no single institution can meet this challenge alone. Climate change transcend boundaries between science, economics, policy and finance, and so must our response. We need coordinated action. And we will do our part as a long-term investor. We will continue to support the transition to net zero. And tomorrow, another big day. We launch our new 2030 climate action plan. Nikolai said he wouldn't give any spoilers, but at least I could say this. The plan reflects 20 years of learning and the research and the insight we have heard today. We are translating the science, the economic analysis and the investment evidence into action for managing one of the world's largest portfolios. So if you want more excitement, we invite you to join us tomorrow to learn more. So when I think about my granddaughter's future, I am reminded of why we do this work. The challenges are immense, but so are the opportunities. Thank you. With that, thank you so much for joining us today, both here at the bank and remotely. [Music]