This video series is for tech professionals already living and working in the US, Canada, the UK, or the European Union. If you're based outside these regions or in an outsourcing heavy market, the data in this video will not apply to your situation. I do not cover immigration, international job hunting, or topics like how to break into tech without a college degree. If that's what you're here for, this probably isn't the right channel, and that's okay. But if you are operating within these markets, keep watching. There's a lot ahead for various seniority levels and career tracks in tech. If you're hoping this is one of those videos where I tell you how to pivot into data science in 3 months with a boot camp and a dream, it's not. I will not be selling you the 90-day data science fantasy. This is a very real and unfiltered experience of learning data science as a non-engineer while juggling a full-time job and running a YouTube channel. I've been doing this for 5 months now and spoiler, no, not everybody can do it. And I'll tell you exactly why some people make it, why most don't. Under the last few videos, I got multiple comments from people asking whether it's possible to switch to data science after a non-technical background. The most popular request was whether it's possible to do it completely for free. The insights in this video are based exclusively on my own experience for a couple of reasons. Number one, there is no research or data set that shows reliable outcomes for people making this transition. And if you interview a h 100 people who did it, you will get a 100 different results. Secondly, I have personally invested close to $200,000 into my own education. Not scholarships, not from my parents. I earned all of that money in my 20s and I spent all of it on my education. I've done a college, I've done two universities, and I've done a lot of professional education. So, trust me when I say that. I know a lot about educational models and I've seen pretty much all of them. Third, I've dealt with a crippling imposttor syndrome for most of my life. I've overstudied more subjects that I needed to just to feel a little bit of confidence in myself. So the whole how to go from a non-technical non-engineering background to technical that question hits very close to home. To level set, I am a product manager and I have been working in the tech industry building technical systems and software. my entire life since age 19, professional life. I am not a data scientist and I'm not planning on switching careers, at least for now. But right now, I'm going through a proper training in data science, the exact same curriculum that I would be following if I were to change careers. The reason I'm going through it is because a lot of active PMs are trying to jump that AI train right now and qualify as AI or machine learning product managers. I'm not chasing that route as I have worked on machine learning applications and smart devices in the past, but I do want to stay up to speed with the pace of the innovation and the change. And no, I do not want to do a 3-day AI for product management boot camp that is not even scratching the surface of what machine learning product development really looks like. If anything, it gives people inflated confidence thinking that they're now qualified AIPMs and then they start slapping those new badges on their LinkedIn. And then when it's time to actually contribute and execute, that badge disappears in a day. I'm a big believer that if you want to get into AI, data science, or machine learning, even as a non-developer, it is essential to go through technical training because you will be guiding people who do build this technology. And why would any of them respect you if you don't really know what you're doing? This is what I preach in my channel. Most people don't lack the ability to learn technical skills. They just have a mental block that stops them from starting. And the solution I'm offering is to get over the mental block and do hard things. I'm probably the exact kind of person you would call non-technical picking up data science. And if I wanted to do a full career pivot, I would be doing it in the exact same way that I'm doing it right now, just with more focus on the interview prep. So, let's dive into it. Where am I learning? How it's going? And who I think can realistically make the jump. Hi, this is Daria and this is TechBake It Real. Please subscribe and give us a thumbs up. We're putting a lot of work into this channel trying to deliver the most honest and real results about the tech world and the tech scene in 2025. So, where am I learning data science? I am using a learning platform called DataQuest and I'm doing their course called Data Scientist in Python. This video is not sponsored by anybody. The only reason I'm sharing it is because I actually like the program. I picked it after comparing it to a few other options and Data Quest made the most sense to me. I think it's very reasonably priced and the content is very solid. It's an 11-monthlong program and if you want to follow the pace, I'd say you would need to spend about an hour to an hour and a half every single day. What I do is I usually study three times a week for about two and a half to three hours per session and I'm still on track to finish within the 11 months. I picked this program because it covers pretty much everything you would need to be able to land a junior role as a data analyst or even as a junior machine learning engineer. It covers coding, math, stats, SQL, data operations, machine learning models, deep learning training, and at the end of each chapter, you have a project to complete, which can be uploaded and added to your portfolio on GitHub. You also get access to a community that can review and comment on your work. You can also look at what others are doing, and there is also a big question bank that you can leverage when prepping for interviews. How it's going? Honestly, I'm doing great. I'm enjoying the course. I'm learning a lot, and I'm practicing a lot. I love how structured it is. I love that it has a very healthy amount of adult gamification. And by that, I mean that I'm not collecting any stars or magic coins. It's just the courses are broken into small lessons and you feel good about completing them one after another. Another game changer for me is the integration of AI assistance into the modern learning platforms because you can ask all the questions you have always been too embarrassed to ask in class. I remember that feeling way before AI technology became so ubiquitous back when I was in middle school or high school or even university. Every time you got stuck when solving a problem, unless you could figure it out on your own, you had to go to a prof to a teaching assistant or to a tutor and you had to be very vulnerable in front of other people. You would get a limited amount of time and you don't want to sound stupid. And then the prof leaves and you have even more questions that you want to ask. And then you come home and you have a choice. Either you invest your time into understanding every aspect of it and going through numerous links and resources to find your answers and get behind on other subjects or you move past it but deep inside you know that you will have gaps in understanding. So for me their AI assistant Chandra AI is a gamecher. I can ask the stupidest questions. I can write my code in five different variations and get feedback on every single one. I can look at the trade-offs. I can see what's working. I can see what's not working. I can ask question about every single line of code. Honestly, it's great. The learning has definitely become much easier. That I can tell you for sure. After a few months, I developed a much stronger understanding of how machine learning systems are built, how they're trained, how the data is structured, and how algorithmic outputs are generated. I'm also rebuilding my fluency in Python after not using it for a really long time since university. Now what I'm not doing, I am not preparing for interviews. I'm learning to be a more competent product manager in the machine learning domain, but I'm not trying to land a data science job tomorrow. With that said, if your goal is to land a job in data science, just be aware, this course has extra practice problems after every chapter, and I usually skip them. You'll want to do them, especially if you're gearing up for interviews. And I think after doing this course for several months, I'm able to describe the profile of a non-technical or a non-engineer person who in my humble opinion would be capable of making a career pivot and really doing this for a living. If there is anything you listen to in this video, please listen to this part. This is the most important part that I think is crucial for understanding if you're exploring data science as a field and coming from non-technical background. who can actually make this career switch. First, let's define what non-technical means. Non-technical can be, hey, I'm a journalist and I studied English literature at uni and I want to become a data scientist. A non-technical can be, hey, I'm a customer success rep and I really want more money and I'm exploring data science. Non-technical can be I'm a UX designer and I want to get into tech field and I want to switch to data analytics. And non-technical can be my situation where I'm a product manager. I build technical systems, but I don't code on a daily basis. Can I become a data scientist? So, all four seemingly non-technical, but are they all equal? Let's look at the structure of the course. You're going to need to become proficient in data science languages such as Python. You're going to be studying data operations. You're going to brush up on statistics and probability theory. You're going to be studying machine learning models. you're going to be working with a lot of data data cleaning and data visualization. Depending on the area of data science that you're going to go to, you're going to need to upskill in industry specific knowledge later on. All of these require a certain level of understanding of technical logic as well as experience with data sets and data analysis, probability and statistics, system architecture, etc. It's fine if you learned it before or had prior experience and need a refresher. But I can definitely see how one may get discouraged if you have never touched a line of code in your entire life. Never performed any statistical analysis, never had practice of applying systematic thinking or quantitative reasoning on a regular basis. A few words on the mental block. I strongly believe that there are far more people capable of technical or technically adjacent careers than it seems. But many don't even try. Not necessarily because they cannot grasp technical concepts, but because of a mental block. If deep inside you, you look at this curriculum and you're like, "Well, I think this is quite doable." But in the past, every time you tried and got stuck, you lost faith in yourself. Let me tell you a story from my own example. Until I was about 22, I thought that I would never be able to code because the stereotype that I grew up around was that if you want to code, you must be exceptionally good at math. And the interesting thing is that I have always been perfectly fine with math and perfectly comfortable. I could do stats, I could do algebra, calculus, geometry, but I was always a kid who wouldn't finish the last two hardest problems on exam. Like for example, if I had an exam and there were 40 problems to go through, I'd be able to do 36 38 max, but I would never get to those two or four extra hard ones at the very end that require more abstract thinking. And because of that, I always thought I was dumb and I was convinced that programming wasn't for me. And that was until I actually went to university. And I will always be grateful to my professors and frankly to myself for picking a life science degree. So I majored in biochemistry, biochemical engineering when I got into uni. And my self-esteem went up because finally I saw how the math that I had been studying for years applies to something very real and very important. I realized that it's not that I was too dumb to do difficult math. It's that I do much better at it when I can see the impact of my own calculations. At universities, math classes that I had within my degree were taught in the context of chemistry. It's one thing to solve a bunch of equations and having zero context of where it applies and it's a totally different thing when you're being given a problem and all of a sudden you go, "Oh my god, I actually understand how this formula or how this entire concept helps me calculate let's say a half-life of a reaction or something along those lines. This is the mental block I'm talking about. For years, I was convinced I was too dumb for it when objectively I wasn't. But it took me 20 years to find the right learning style for myself to realize that I can be good enough for this. The reason I think that data science is now more accessible to people than it was before is because of AI integration into those learning platforms and the availability of LLM apps in general because you can take any educational information and restructure it to suit your learning style. You can ask for examples that you understand. You can ask for analogies that you understand and you don't have to stick to a standard script and if there's something that's not making sense, you just go, "Okay, well then this is just not for me." However, once you're past that mental block, you have to be real with yourself and assess your chances. The reality check. When you're asking yourself, is it possible for me to switch to data science? You have to be looking at two factors. Your work experience and your primary education. You got to have some prior experience or some foundation in math or science or work experience in tech rules at least. If you have no educational foundation and no experience working with data or systems, you're signing up for a brutal uphill battle. Even if you land a role somehow, you will be surrounded by people who have spent years training in this field and you might not be able to keep up. Plus, if the industry changes, you won't have that mindset to adapt because your skill will be very much limited to exactly what you learned. The reason why my profile is a candidate for a career pivot is because of the following. I have two undergrad degrees, one in business, one in biochemical engineering. My master's is in product management and system design. I have worked in the tech industry for the past nine years and I have built very technical systems already. I have studied calculus, stats and programming in the past. No, I don't code on a daily basis but I do have a pretty good understanding of how to read code. In university I worked on chemistry adjacent coding problems like lab data analysis and reaction prediction. I've already used many of the core data science tools just not in a job title. So to all the people who did science and engineering degrees at school just not computer science guys you've already done a lot of data science training and you have a very good shot at it. This is more than doable for you. So while I feel non-technical sometimes objectively I'm not starting from scratch. Do matter? Yes. This field has a high barrier to entry. If you studied mathematical sciences or life sciences such as physics, chemistry or biology or if you studied any kind of engineering, mechanical, chemical, biological, medical, you will be miles ahead of someone with a communications degree and no technical exposure. Who has a realistic shot? Who can realistically get into data science from a non-engineer background? So it is possible if you work in tech already or in a tech adjacent or a data adjacent role. So roles such as product management, technical support, finance and risk analysts. If you're building technical products, systems, applications, and you deal with technical problems every single day, databases, APIs, all of that, you're very tech-savvy and you're capable of reading the code. Or if you studied hard science or engineering discipline and you did that at an accredited university where you were constantly tested and assessed on your knowledge and you're comfortable with numbers, logic and systems. Maybe you haven't coded in years, but you know how to learn it. Who in my opinion is going to have a very hard time, almost impossible chance at getting into data science unless you go back to school full-time. If you have never worked in tech, if you have never studied anything scientific and you're chasing quick money, if you believe a 3-month boot camp is going to get you a machine learning job, if you want the title but not the hard work that comes with it. Now, if you want to come at me and tell me about that one friend of yours who was a hairdresser yesterday, did a 3-month boot camp in data science, and became a machine learning engineer, by all means, go ahead. You could comment, but let's be honest, that is not representative, first of all. And secondly, let's see how long that person will last in that job. You're free to leave the comment. I just want to say that this channel isn't Willy Wonka's factory. I am not handing out golden tickets to people who believe in Santa Claus, the tooth fairy, or the six-figure salaries after a boot camp. It's not going to happen. It is impossible. Do not expect a miracle after a 3month boot camp. Conclusion: Can you do it without a degree? No. Not in the way people mean it. You need some sort of formal training. If it's not a full degree, then previous training in science or engineering or years of work experience in tech. Can you get into data science from any background? No. Is it easy? No. But is it possible if you work your ass off and have some prerequisites under your belt? Yes, very much so. How long is it going to take you if you do have the relevant background? One to one and a half years of active studying plus interview prep while having a full-time job. I want to say that the amount of effort it's going to take will be equal to doing a part-time masters while having a 9 toive job. And that's a wrap. That was my opinion on the realistic path to data science for non-engineers. I would love to hear your thoughts, especially if you're currently transitioning and can share feedback on how it's going. I would also love to hear the success and failure stories about your transition into data science. Let's talk about that. I hope this was helpful. Till next time. Bye.