Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today I want to talk to you about "The Courage to Be Disliked"
This is a real bestseller.
The author is Japanese psychologist Ichiro Kishimi
Since first publication in 2013
It has sold millions of copies in Asia.
In China
It has also long been on the psychology bestseller list.
Many psychology book clubs
I really like to discuss this book.
Some of you may not have read it.
But this won't affect your viewing of this video.
Because the ideas in this book are really universal.
It is also very representative
You haven't read this book
You must have heard these views.
And it can become popular in China
And Chinese culture
There is a deep connection between the
It can be said that
When we understand the way of thinking of this book
We can also understand
The underlying logic of various popular psychology in Chinese society
So today's video
I would like to analyze the viewpoints of this book with you.
And why I don’t agree with this book
Before the video starts, let me say
This video
It will be placed in the list of "Psychology and Education"
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
First of all, the structure of this book is very simple
The book adopts the form of debate between young people and philosophers.
The subtitle of the book is "Adler's Philosophy Lesson"
That is, philosophers use Adler's psychology
To guide and educate young people
Improving psychological problems among young people
Of course I think
This book and Adler's own thoughts
There is still a big gap
On the contrary, it has closer ties with Chinese and Japanese culture.
We will discuss this in detail later.
A youth is a person who lacks self-confidence since childhood.
He is very concerned about his background, education, appearance
Have a strong sense of inferiority
He cares a lot about other people's opinions
Often falls into a state of self-loathing
The philosophers believe
The world is extremely simple
People can get happiness at any time
Of course the young people will refute the philosopher.
In the Introduction section
Young people say that the world is complicated
Isn't chaos obvious?
The philosopher said:
"That's because you see the world as complicated.
Because people do not live in an objective world.
They live in a subjective world of their own creation."
The philosopher gave an example.
If you look at the world through sunglasses
Then the world is gray.
You need to take off your sunglasses
Instead of lamenting the darkness of the world
The philosopher asked the young man:
"If the world you see after taking off your sunglasses is too dazzling
Maybe you will miss sunglasses again
even so
Would you still choose to take off your sunglasses?
Do you have the courage?"
This passage can be said to be the core of the whole book.
The word "courage" is the core of this passage.
The author believes
Everyone lives in their own subjective world.
So people can rely on courage
Change the way you look at the world
Then change the real world
then
The author puts forward the most important methodology of the entire book
teleology
This is reflected in such a dialogue
The young man said that he had a friend
Hiding in his room all year round
He really wants to go outside
I also want to have a job in society
But he was very scared
My hands and feet start shaking when I go out
Young people think
This may be because he has a bad relationship with his parents.
At school or at work
Left psychological trauma
The philosopher or the author himself
I strongly disagree with this
This is also one of the core ideas of the whole book.
Psychological trauma does not exist.
If we only focus on the reasons in the past
Explain things based on causes
Then we will fall into determinism
That is, to believe that the present is entirely determined by the past.
There's no way to change that.
Philosophers believe
This man is not because of the strong fear
I can't go out.
Quite the opposite
It's because he doesn't want to go outside.
I created these fears.
To rationalize your choices
That is to say
He first had the deep purpose of "staying at home"
This is called teleology
The philosopher further explained
It is not “experience itself” that determines who we are.
It is the meaning we give to our experiences.
This directly determines our lives.
Life is not given by others.
It is chosen by oneself
It's up to you to choose how you live your life
If this man thinks
I am unable to adapt to society because of psychological trauma.
That's also because he chose these traumatic experiences
As an excuse to escape from social life
As for why he didn't really want to go out
Philosophers believe
This may be because he longs for his parents' attention.
If you don't go out
His parents will always pay attention to him and take care of him.
If you leave home
You will become the majority that no one cares about.
No one will take themselves seriously
So, he didn't really want to go out.
OK
Now let’s briefly evaluate the above views.
I think
The author's point of view is only superficially profound.
It's actually very indifferent.
Many people are used to taking indifference as profound and rational.
certainly
The first half of this point does make sense.
That is, everyone is indeed living in
By your own beliefs
In the world constructed and reflected
But this does not mean
This world can be changed at will.
Although it is not absolutely objective
But not
With courage, you can turn things around
The author is here
Obvious confusion with "belongs to me"
The difference between "under my control"
It's like saying
All the organs in your body belong to you.
But do you have complete control over your body?
You can walk, run, talk
But the autonomic nervous system
You can't control it at will.
for example
You can't just tell your heart to speed up.
Or start digestion
At least
It cannot be changed by your will.
Even though it is part of your body
This is even more true of people’s inner world.
Although the psychological world belongs to you
But it doesn't mean you can control it at will.
People's belief system
Influenced by culture, history,
The encoding and shaping of language and customs
It will also be affected by interpersonal relationships
The impact of the evolving “implicit relational knowledge”
As we mentioned in our February 16 issue
The video about implicit memory mentioned
Implicit relational knowledge
Often shaped by non-verbal context
It doesn't mean that you can change once you realize it.
Even if you realize
I have poor implicit relational knowledge
But to change it
It often takes a long time to perceive and integrate
Safer relationships
and some kind of external support system
But in short, it is definitely not just about "mustering up courage"
By being aware of the purpose of one's actions
It can be solved
This is also the core question of this book.
It is the one that combines all the complex emotions,
Social structure and psychological process
It all comes down to the question of "Do you have the courage to take off your sunglasses?"
Or
Do you dare to face the bleak life?
Have you shirked your responsibilities?
It looks very philosophical.
It's actually very simple and rough.
Just using Adler's language
for example
The author believes
This man's social phobia
To achieve the purpose of escaping reality
Deliberately created
Because I don't go out
You can continue to receive the care and concern of your parents.
Once you go out, you may be ignored by society.
Become the ordinary majority
The author believes
As long as this purpose is revealed
Make a person aware
All this misfortune
In fact, it is the result of his free and voluntary choice.
His illness is cured.
He gained the courage to choose again.
However, is it really his free choice not to go out?
We can also ask
Why does he crave his parents' attention so much?
This stay at home
Living conditions that gain parental attention
Does it really make him feel happy and blessed?
Does it really serve his purpose?
I think no one really likes hiding in the house.
Being taken care of by parents for a lifetime
The state of being unable to live independently
This inability to separate from parents
It's the result of long-term trauma.
The person concerned may indeed be unable to bear the consequences of entering society.
The potential for isolation and frustration
But this is by no means equivalent to
He purposely wanted to stay home.
When we have to
Of the two very bad options
Choose a time
You can't say I chose freely.
I can't say that all this was for my own purpose.
This involves a
The difference between negative freedom and positive freedom
In this issue of 2023
Discussing real interests in videos
I mentioned
Free choice under scarcity
They're all suspicious.
although
The parties' choices were not forced by external forces.
But due to trauma and internalized authority
His free choice is not truly free.
For example
A robber asks you, do you want money or your life?
You choose to die
He said: Look
You freely choose to give up money
For example
A girl in the company
Suffered from the cold violence of a bad boss
Being belittled every day
But she didn't quit
So the philosopher said, if you don't leave
It means you still don't want to give up this job.
Although you are afraid, painful, depressed every day
But in the final analysis
This is all made by you
You are afraid of change
Fear of falling into new uncertainty after leaving the job
Although I am suffering now
But at least it's safe and controllable.
This explanation does have some reasonable parts.
However, the parties did not resign
The bottom line
Or because she lacks choice?
For example, she doesn't have enough income
Or the current employment environment is getting worse and worse
Put aside these external conditions
To talk about abstract freedom
It's like humiliating the other person.
For example
Many people who experience domestic violence
To outsiders
It's like "I can leave
But I chose to stay.”
A philosopher might say:
"You stay in this family
Because you have the intention of not leaving
For example, if you want to gain the love of the abuser
I want to maintain the image of a complete family."
But the fact is
Many people stay in violent relationships
Because they don't have the financial independence
Fear of being criticized by society
I am afraid that if I escape, I might be retaliated against.
Inability to find better relationships
These are very real difficulties.
At this time, I said, "It was you who chose not to leave."
Essentially, it is putting the victim in a situation
It's entirely their own responsibility
It is systemic oppression
Blame it on the failure of individual will
It forces a person to
Falling into deeper self-condemnation
It does not inspire the other person to change.
This is actually the core question of this book.
The author thinks that "you are not happy
Because you chose to be unhappy."
for example
Chapter 1 has three sections:
"Your misfortune is your own choice"
“People often make up their minds not to change”
and “Your life depends on the present moment”
This all expresses the same meaning
In the section on misfortune
The young man said that some people have wealthy and kind parents.
Some people have poor and vicious parents
This world is indeed unfair.
The philosopher asked: "What is given to us?"
Will reality change?
The reason why you are unfortunate now
It is because you chose misfortune yourself.
Not because I was born unlucky.
The reason why you can't change
Because I made the decision not to change.
This confused the young man.
The young man asked, why do I choose misfortune?
Not willing to change?
The philosopher said: If you choose a new way of life
Then you don't know the new self
What problems will you encounter?
I don't know how to deal with what's happening.
The future is hard to predict
There may be more pain,
A more miserable life is waiting for me
That is to say
Even if people have various dissatisfactions
But I still think it is easier to keep the status quo.
More peace of mind
so
The authors conclude:
Adlerian Psychology is the Psychology of Courage
The reason why you are unfortunate
Not because of the past or the environment
It's not because of lack of ability.
You just lack the courage
It can be said that it is a lack of "the courage to obtain happiness"
No matter what happened in your life before
It has no impact on how you live your life in the future.
Decide your own life
It’s you who lives in the “present moment”
We say
This does sound like a very radical philosophy.
It combines social structures, psychological trauma,
Class and cultural differences
All with "the courage of freedom"
The words "responsible for oneself" were wiped out.
On the bright side
It can actually be considered a kind of loneliness.
A noble and awe-inspiring philosophy
However
It is by no means a philosophy of love and humanity.
A person who believes in such a philosophy
Is it more free?
Or is it heading towards a deeper split?
What about self-blame and alienation?
Indeed, the author theoretically
All external authority is abolished.
Potential for suppression of individual freedoms
That is, no one in the world really restricts you.
Only you limit yourself
Parents, society, history, trauma don't matter
On the surface, this is the ultimate praise for free will.
However, since the author presupposes that people
There is a more hidden purpose
or the inner self
Therefore, people always live in division and confrontation.
Man becomes a slave to his own inner authority.
But this kind of internal authority is actually very important to the parties involved.
It is like an external and alien force.
It is a kind of PUA for oneself
Therefore, to some extent
The philosophy of The Courage to Be Disliked
A little Jewish ethics
And the shadow of Kant's moral philosophy
But it is much more simplified, harsh and radical than these philosophies
Both Judaism and Kantian philosophy emphasize subjective responsibility
Emphasize the sublimity of moral laws
Although Kant said
Man must obey the laws set by his own reason
Judaism emphasizes the law of God
But the commonality is
They all stressed that responsibility cannot be attributed to external
Must be internally responsible
At this point
They all emphasized
Internal causes are more fundamental than external causes.
However, Kant's free will
It is a rational assumption
Rather than a ready-made fact
On a practical level
Kant never denied human weakness
Never free
Relying on a kind of accidental courage
therefore
Kant advocates relying on institutions, education and ethical communities
Only in this way can people gradually move towards a state of goodness
Because even if everyone "
Their intentions are all good.”
But if there is a lack of unity and communication between
Because of mutual defense and competition
And "pushing each other into evil"
The reason why humans can become moral beings
Not by taking on everything in isolation
But in a mutual trust,
In a mutually reinforcing ethical space
This is what we are going to do next
Another point I want to criticize about this book
That's all for today's video
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!