今天要說的問題是我們兩個人有經歷在經歷的一個問題就是英文學了十幾年還是不敢開口或者一開口就非常非常的緊張要怎麼樣解決這個問題呢我覺得並不完全是英文能力的問題更多的是一個心理障礙 所以今天想跟大家分享兩個故事,一條公事希望能夠幫大家真正開始去克服這種不敢開口,開口就緊張的焦慮問題嗯我最近看到一個Ted Talk,簡直是我自己個人的一個寫照 就是那Ted Talk主人公她要買一個Omega 3然後Omega 3有各種不同類型DHA、EPA她不理解DHA跟EPA到底什麼意思就想找一個店員然後有一個很專業的穿那種正裝的道具 over to her and I see this look as she sees me this sort of it's a look I recognize very well her eyes go all wide it's sort of that panic oh my god I got to speak to a native speaker and she's gonna judge me and notice my mistakes I go up to her and I explain my situation, which Omega do I get? And she starts explaining to me everything about DHA and EPA you could possibly imagine. She speaks very quickly, goes all around in circles, and when she finishes... 後來呢,她就走到前台,一個女生 There's no fear. In fact, she's just looking at me. You know that look? Like, "Yeah, okay, so, how?" Yeah, I've been in Malaysia a long time. So I go up to her and I explain the problem, EPA DHA. She looks at me, she says, "Okay, uh, EPA for heart. DHA for brain. Your heart okay or not? So I said, "Yeah, yeah, I said my heart is really, I think it's pretty good." She says. 這兩種不同類型的人 English is not that good, but it's very easy to express. But some are very very slow. I think most of my time is actually a very nervous professional guide. I have a story to share with you. When I was in Australia, I had a presentation. I wrote down all the drafts and I wrote them all down. 一上台之後我就跟那個導構一樣機關槍咬非常非常非常快我現在記得當時我的那個professor聽完之後大概的意思是I can feel that you are very passionate about your presentationand everything that you talked about But you spoke so fast你是點fast什麼樣啊好多我講的東西他可能其實都沒有聽懂但他就很禮貌的然後問了我一些問題整個狀態就跟那個導購一樣很緊張就完全沒有在講英文了就想趕緊把這個事情解決我要擺脫這件事情 You are not enjoying the game at all. I think everyone can put your name in the game. Which type of player do you belong to? It's not fixed that you must be left or right. It's a curve. Yes, what I just said may be two extremes. And then I myself will be more biased against that kind of situation. Why is it like this? Let's talk about the second story first. The second story is about you. When you mentioned your experience in Koyas yesterday, you said that stage was you. Because there was a very dense music that was being tested. I am anxious, but think a lot about it I was so scared to say it Because I had so many things in my head that I would be kidnapped when I wanted to say it For example, my grammar And I had to use that kind of "Oh, beautiful" kind of expression Yes, yes, yes I was really kidnapped by that test  But I didn't have much ego I didn't have any idol burden I didn't think I would have anything wrong I thought that if I said something wrong abroad, no one would be happy I was very sincere at that time Although there were some rules I remember that after I finished talking, there was an old lady He liked the part I talked about, and then he gave me a card of Masashi He said, "Thank you for what you said, and I recommend you to..." Coupang Yeah, yeah, and I was like, "Oh, so this is it" I gave up my ego and sincerely expressed my charm I feel like you've already heard the solution 我提前先講了,因為其實我有一個類似的經歷當時也是出去旅遊在塔斯曼加那邊然後去到一間義大利的餐廳真的非常非常好吃然後整個的kitchen的vibe也很好就想要跟那個廚師因為能看到他在那邊整理做飯就想要去跟他聊知道他怎麼樣做出來這個東西所以就很暢快地跟他聊了很多沒有任何想說魚法有沒有問題用的詞對不對 I feel that travelling can help people to let go of their burden Because in your daily life, you will often encounter these people You will think, what will these people think of me? Because I feel that when we are afraid to speak English Actually, there is a voice in our minds telling you Proper English should sound like this You should use like a fancy big words and your accent should be as authentic and as native like as possible What what if I don't I'm not grammatically correct? What if I say this wrong? Will people judge me and think I'm making a fool of myself, right? You often have a conversation like this in your mind. I think this is a deeper reason than nervousness. You should have a high expectation for the way you speak English. And this expectation, as your ability grows, it is also constantly rising. Its rising speed is higher than our ability. So no matter how much you improve your English, you will never be satisfied with your English. You will never feel that you did not do well enough. When you feel that you did not do well enough, you will worry that you will not say anything. You will think that you did something wrong, and you will wait for your brain to fix it. And then you will say "Oh, I'm ready. It has already changed." 就變成這樣子的情況所以這個不是說我們能力變得越來越差或是沒有提升我們一直在提升,只是我們的期望也在不斷不斷地隨著能力的提升拔高而它的提升速度太快了,對不對? So, next I want to share with you this formula, which we heard in a previous vlog And apply that to anything. 那你就会以这个要求去要求自己然后你参加了一场对话你对这场表现的perception只有10分那10-100你得到的这个分数就是-90所以你整个的这个开心程度对于英文的体验就是-90分而这种不合理的预期、expectation它会带来很大的影响首先第一点就是当你在脑子里一直打草稿的时候你其实就没有办法全身心地去听人家到底在讲什么的话 有三個東西會跑掉第一是你的聽話聽話是第一你腦子裡面又在打糙狗你講的時候就會非常非常的緊張你嘴巴就會咄嗦在打結講不定情所以第二是你的說話然後你的信心是第一這個是最致命的 You will lose confidence. Next time you will think about the bad experience you had last time. You will experience all the bad things. You will be depressed and learn painfully until you can't take it anymore. You will give up. And then you will remember this thing for a while, and then you will start learning again, and then you will repeat the same process over and over again. But here we may also fall into a misunderstanding. There is also a saying in the dream that you have to distinguish between ambition and expectation. This is right. I was just about to say this. I'm done. You can continue. After I finished, I had a word in my head. I know the reason. I know how to do it. There are actually a lot of things you can do. First of all, 重新要去定義這個 expectationMo裡面有一句話說Have as many ambitions as you want, right?But understand expectation and ambition, they are two very different things你想要實現,我要變成 native like,ok fine, no problem但是你要有合理的預期,我現在會是怎樣的一種成果 Expectation and ambition cannot equal each other. When they do, there will be many unhappy things. I feel that there is a way to judge. When you feel that your ambition gives you something that you can't bear the pressure, At that time, it may become your expectation. But if your ambition gives you the motivation, then it's the truth. But these are all...ah, I understand the reason. So, because I'm facing the same problem, I want to ask how I can really solve this problem. I think the first step to really solve the problem should be to resolve it. 这些情绪,就你脑子当中不断批评你,judge你的这个声音给你带来的冲击与自我怀疑你没有办法克服这个自我怀疑的话,那你永远在讲英文的这个过程当中,你想想想想到的联系到了都是之前不好的体验这个声音它会不断不断的出现,你就没有办法有自信所以我觉得这种自如的感觉其实一定程度上是你对这件事情是否存在好感 So we have to change this. This is the first step of the actual practice. I'll give you three steps to help you. The first one is also a help from the blogger. The sound we hear in our mind is not the same as ours. 但是好些時候我們會混淆,覺得我們腦子裡的聲音就是我們自己的聲音你如果這麼想的話就會產生非常多的問題因為你覺得這個聲音就等於是你那他說的什麼東西他都是對的你就會相信他就是你英文講很爛,這段語法好多問題 大家都覺得你是個...這個時候誰會讓他閉嘴?但這個學會讓他閉嘴的第一步我覺得真的是要意識到The voice inside your head is not youIt's your brain trying to bring you downBut it's actually not youYou really need to understand that如果你腦這個聲音就等同於是你的話那你就不會有這個聲音了 You can do it directly if you think of it. Why do you need a time frame for a sound? Let it tell you that this is what you want, and then you do it. I really encourage everyone to watch this episode. You can use logic very, very much. Or use the perspective of logic. 很簡單就能明白這個道理所以主持人就給自己的腦子起了一個名字叫 Becky我叫我的腦子 Becky你叫你的腦子 Becky?對,對你叫我的腦子 Becky?Becky 是第三個派對Becky 不是我每次他說話是 Becky 閉嘴對,Becky 那是不正確的或者怎樣 Becky 你懂的,證明它我感覺我們其實也可以借借Henry給自己帶來一個名字叫我給自己帶來一個名字叫動離因為我們的那隻狗它55個都在忙,閑不下來然後那個動離就是我們那隻狗的名字除透是我們的名字 But his lips are very long. His cheekbones are like this. It's quite effective. When my mind tells me any things. It's like a jellyfish. Jellyfish... Jellyfish is a... My brain has something wrong. So don't believe it. Yes. Okay. I'm going to make it clear first. The voice of your brain is not like you. So it's probably wrong. You have to doubt it. You can't believe everything he says. Otherwise, you'll be bad if you don't perform well. You're a loser然後你就buy into that好,有了這個之後就有了基礎了就可以開始第二步那就是對話有三個步驟,三個問題一就是Is it true?比方說我當時在做那個presentation的時候然後回來之後我就感覺英文好爛啊,為什麼啊,什麼東西都講不清楚啊老師都聽不明白我講的東西是什麼我就好失敗啊 就要問自己這個問題就是那個動力在跟我說不是我講的不是我講的,是動力這麼認為OK, you say true那我其實講的內容是OK的只是我講的語氣有點快我太緊張了那我就能看到這件事情並不完全是動力想的這個樣子對然後第二個事情是Can I do something about it? 我做什麼都做不到,因為已經發生了如果我還在想,我會持續多年把這個石頭真的放下因為如果現在還記得這個東西的話 那我之後講英文的時候也會受到這個東西影響所以你真的要放下這個東西因為它已經發生了什麼都做不了第三個問題是Can I accept and commit?它裡面說的accept就很簡單只要接受這個因為你真的做不了什麼然後commit說的是那你做一些其他的事情能夠改善這個情況那我就知道了那現在這個東西沒有辦法接下來就可以練習以後講的時候盡量要講慢一點沒關係先把這個東西講清楚 or practice other skills to help me improve my English. This way I can know that motivation is wrong. I shouldn't listen to him. I should do something else to help me.现在在小屋睡觉的动力 I might have to flip your eyes 300 times. So after this process, I won't create a bad relationship with English. But I think that in this whole process, if you have been learning English for so many years, you need to do a lot of things. You need to break down the negative and negative things. You need to try to build more positive things to cover up the bad things. Because the things that already exist may not disappear. I think it's not about getting rid of the mistakes you made before Yeah, rewire your brain It reminds me of when we started raising dogs If dogs had some bad social experiences, like with people or dogs They would be scared Like that day, we met an owner He hates grass 覺得這個草坪好髒,狗狗去的話回家就生了好多細菌他不讓那個狗狗上草坪所以那個狗狗在上草坪的時候,四條腿都在抖你知道嗎這樣走鋼絲一樣我覺得這個就是一個跟草坪的一個native association所以他如果想要改變這個狗狗的時候,讓牠願意在草坪上玩耍的話 其實非常非常的困難我覺得就跟我們以前講英文有很多不好的經歷然後現在要讓自己鼓足勇氣繼續去開口去講是同樣的一個過程我一直去挖掘我的自己去改變它可能能夠起到一定的幫助但這件事情我覺得太困難了 I think it's better to start to build a better relationship with others. I'll visit the grassland next time, I have a good experience. I'll improve it. I think we may change. I think we may be the same in English. So the third step is to find a safe environment. It can bring positive impact to your life. I think the internet is very negative. You talk about English and there are a bunch of "this person, this grammar, this one is wrong, that one is wrong" Maybe that person is not as good as you. Yes, there is a problem with pronunciation, there is a problem with this place, why is he teaching English? If you... If you connect with these sounds, and then the sound confirms the sound in your brain, and you believe in the sound, then it becomes negative contact. Then these sounds will come out again. So we really need to find a positive environment. It will encourage you to push you up, not step on you down. If you hear negative comments, you should tell yourself that they are not completely true. Some things may have another side. And I think the biggest damage to these haters is to themselves. You are actually using the same standard to demand yourself. You judge that person not only as someone else but also as yourself. When you speak English, you will have the same voice to tell you. This is actually a subconscious voice. Double-edged. Yes, it's very, very bad. So, you see more good things from others. You don't learn from others. You can see what things are worth learning. I think this will help us to establish more positive connections. So, I dare not speak English or I am very nervous when I speak. This problem is really not a problem of ability. This can be said to be a psychological barrier. I have a big feeling about this. I've been practicing English and other things recently. In the end, people will think that I'm talking about a fake and empty psychological chicken soup. I just can't overcome this. This is the reason why I'm not good at English. 但是我觉得大家一定要先去试一下这个方法有没有用对自己一定是你知道了这个道理可能你觉得这是个大道理但是你要先去试你要去验证它这是不是又是一个大道理我觉得这几天我去实践下来真的还是对我方方面面挺管用的它不是一个那种假大空的鸡汤我希望这三个公式eat it true就这三个能帮助我也是走出那个给自己设下的一个这种 It's a difficult dilemma in English. But from my perspective, I feel like it's a big deal, a fake. If you listen to it, it's really like this. Everything, no matter how big of a wisdom, You just sit here and listen, it's all fake. Because you have to go back to the original. Only if you do it, it will be useful. If you think about it, it will be useless. And you don't just say I want to do it once, you have to keep doing it. Every time you don't use it, it's all useless. It's all become a reason, I understand. But I don't know how to do it. 你最難的那一刻,你記不記得有一次我們這6狗的時候他,我們家那個大狗狗超級煩,完全不聽話就一直要這裡聞那裡聞,管不住他就有情緒那次失敗了對,那時候失敗我就說,你想那個公式他說這次我不行那次就是沒有用因為那次你沒有做,對不對所以一定會有好多失敗那些時候 我感覺這個更多是一次投票這個投票是多數者勝有些時候你會輸但只要多數是你贏的那你絕大這個連線還是正向的所以一定是要做所以回頭去看學英文的這整個過程其實它有很多很多的困難的我也是覺得整個學英文的旅程對我來說是非常靈性的 Because you have to confront so many fears. A lot of times you have to look into the mirror and confront the person who might stop you from continuing what you're doing or what you're trying to do. A lot of fears, the fear of being judged by other people, fear of not being good enough. You have to overcome all of that. So sometimes you start doubting yourself and completely lose your confidence. I think that's bigger than learning English.水 If you watch my content, whether it's YouTube videos or my own courses, I will talk about things outside of learning English. Because I think these things are the real difficult part. Because that's not the hardest part. It's the whole process of doing it. And this process is actually a bit like talking to yourself. 你只是需要克服很多的東西從這個當中學到的這些東西獲得了成長它是可以轉移到你生活的方方面面的嗯好,那這講得有點太太形容上了,不講了OK,那就到這我們下期會做一個關於莫內希播客的分享因為真的太棒太棒了幫助到我們非常多 那我們就進入共同體,下期視頻見Cheers! Okay, cheers.