Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Tuesday, November 18th. Thank you everybody for being here. Uh not only are the pre-markets down, but Cloudflare is down. Not just the stock, the stock is down, but also the entire uh company's services. And as a result, a lot of different websites have not been working today. Uh X, for example, which is a big place that I get my news. I know a lot of people get their news from X. That's just not working at all. I mean, it was working for a little bit and then it stopped working. Now it's not working again. If it ever starts working for people, let me know. But um I cannot log on and see anything. Nothing is loading. And I was worried that Streamyard, which also runs on Cloudflare, would be off today. But so far so good. So if the stream stops randomly, um it most likely is a Streamyard thing. Hopefully that doesn't happen. But definitely Forex Cloud Player uh is not working. Nonetheless, we got a red pre-markets once again. Nvidia down 1%. Meta, lowest it's been in the past five weeks, 592 in the pre-markets, that's down 1.5%. BMR is down 1%. S&P 500 down half a percent. S&P got to 660.5. We were at 662.2. We are very close to violating the lows of yesterday, which was basically at these levels. So, when the market opens, we're going to see uh how low it goes. But we are down. Google somehow green with the Bergkshire news. Google up 1.4%. Tesla's red. Palenteer is down 2%. Robin Hood's down another 2%. Amazon's down 3%. Weeble's down 2%. IN's down 2%. Rocket Lab down 2%. Zeta down 1.3. Oaklo down three. PayPal down half. Dualingo down one. AMD down 2%. Microsoft uh down half a percent. Micron down 2%. It's ugly. It is once again an ugly day. We talked a lot last night on the market close of what's going on and kind of my thoughts and my opinions on it. I talked to a bunch of different people yesterday and tried to get some analysis on what's going on. Um, I did some research last night. I have some perspectives. I have some ideas. And look, ultimately it's boiling down to a simple question in my opinion. And that simple question is nothing to do with Nvidia, even though I think Nvidia is going to crush it. By the way, we got some jobs data from the ADP. It's kind of a nothing burger. Um, two things. uh 2500 jobs uh down ADP said for last week 2500 jobs down is um like a negative 2500 report that's very consistent what we saw over the past couple weeks I mean a capac in October they said it was 11,000 jobs per week so negative 2500 is fine the other piece of data we got yesterday that was also really important uh and it just randomly showed up on the BLS website there was like no scheduled release or anything anything was the jobless claims that we're supposed to get every Thursday we got them for the month or for the week of October 18th I don't know if anyone else saw this uh 200 32,000 jobless claims. 232,000 jobless claims. So that came out last night. And um that's not recessionary. Recessionary is upwards of 350,000 jobs. So that was actually a relatively decent jobs number. And you I actually saw stocks like start to move higher as soon as that number came out. I think it was at like 12 a.m. because markets were like, "Oh, it's not that bad." But I think the actual October uh jobs report we are not going to be getting. We're remember we're getting September's uh job report on Thursday which is estimated to be like 50,000 jobs which is whatever. Um you know that's going to be fine but that's September. We're we we need like the worst of the worst which was October and we're not getting that. So we're going to have wait till we get November. I don't know what that job report is going to look like but um as of now you know you just don't have a lot of the data and that's another reason I think that the market is struggling. The most important thing right here is the rate cut. I keep coming back to the rate cut to try to understand what is happening. Why the hell are we not getting this rate cut and how much is it affecting the economy and why do I, you know, keep going back to that? Well, let's get started with this topic. Mike Wilson, who is uh one of Morgan Stanley's top equity research analysts and top portfolio strategist, he came out with a statement yesterday and Mike Wilson is saying um dude 7,800 7,800. He's saying 78 freaking 100red next year. And I'm reading his report last night and I'm like, why is he so confident? How is he making this argument? And and I pulled up a video of him from two weeks ago that I want to watch with everybody because I do think it really gives a lot of context. Um his argument is not that crazy. Now, maybe he's wrong. Again, he's one of Morgan Stanley's top guys. He was wrong in 2023 to be too bearish. Maybe he's being a bit too bullish in 2025. But all of it rests on the rate cut and the pivot that we got from the Fed to not cutting rates is really in my opinion substantially hurting the the way equity prices are being perceived because if we are behind the curve or if the Fed is steeply behind the curve which you know Mike Wilson thinks we need 150 bips of cuts at minimum to get even to neutral then you know you're going to have some issues and as a result it's kind of hard for the equity markets to kind of go higher if we are dealing with those rate cuts. Ethereum right there 3,000 and then Bitcoin 91,000. Bitcoin did fall below 90,000. I am still trying to figure out to the best of my ability what is going on with Bitcoin. Again, it does feel like Tom Lee is right. There is this structured margin calls that are being placed across the industry and as a result there's some institution that is selling. However, I feel like, you know, it's been about a month since we had that $20 billion liquidation. If that was going to happen, that should have happened by now. I think now it's more retail that's just saying screw it, I'm out of this thing. And that selling pressure is also starting to take place. We did lose 90,000 last night. We'll see if it ever revisits that. But um you know that along with lack of rate cuts I think is also a big concern and as a result it's kind of messing up a lot of different portfolios. X is working now. Let me see. Is X working? X is working for me too. Correct. Awesome. Okay, cool. We got Twitter back so we'll be able to go through some of the stuff. All right, let me play Mike Wilson. I think this will give a little bit of context for at least how he thinks the market is revolving and why he thinks the rate cut is one of the most important things that the Fed needs to give us. Uh and maybe we'll get it if we actually get the jobs data over the coming weeks.
>> Consumption, increase investment. Okay, it's a totally different economy. And what that is, it's a it's a higher velocity economy for all the companies that haven't been doing well for the last I would say three years. We've been sort of in a recession. I I would argue strong. We've we've done the work on this and you know we we've done the analysis with respect to the rolling recession that has been in place for I would say three years most of the private economy kind of suffering government kind of carrying the water and then we basically saw all of that come to uh fruition at the end in April April capitulation day as I call it was basically the government recession that was the final piece of the rolling recession and if you actually look at the challenger job cuts and you look at the revision data now on the on the NF on the payroll data it it it looks to me like a rate of change low okay in payrolls and a rate of change high in challenger job cuts came in April. So the market's figured all this out. That's why revision breath has gone straight up.
>> So rolling recovery where are we in those stages?
>> So we we we deemed it the rolling recovery in April and we're now seeing that like these areas of the market are not everything's going to recover at once because it's it's an unorthodox recession. It's not like everything flushed at once and everything recovers at once. So it is going to be staged and we've seen that in the market. We're still narrow quite frankly. AI capex is still is is kind of one of early recoveries here. Semiconductors being an early cycle group, but we're not seeing the other quote unquote early cycle groups recover the way they typically do in a new economic cycle. Why? Because the Fed is behind the curve. The Fed is way behind the curve on rates. They need rates much lower. If you really want to get the private economy moving, rates are too high.
>> Much lower. How much lower do you think that really is required to get that broadening out?
>> Well, let's just start with the two-year Treasury yield. Okay. So my barometer is always the Fed is behind the curve if they if Fed funds is above two-year Treasury yields. And in order to stimulate the private economy, I would say they need to be well below that. So that's 50 basis points just to get to neutral and maybe another hundred plus to get to something that's more stimulative for the average company and the average consumer. Are you right now betting
>> the argument Mike Wilson is making right there is that the economy has shifted in the Trump administration from consumption to investing and the big beautiful bill has really prioritized companies to invest. That's why you have all these data center investments being rewarded in a variety of different ways from a regulatory perspective. For example, zoning laws for data centers have been very accretive. So his argument is that if we are in an investing part of this economy which for the past 15 years American companies have not really been incentivized to invest then we need to stimulate by lowering rates because one of the easiest ways to invest is that if you can borrow capital borrowing capital means lower rate lower borrowing costs which means rates needs to come down in order to be able to build all those jobs and factories construction sites for data centers etc. Uh so his argument is you have 10 companies in the S&P 500 that have done well and that are carrying the bulk of the load. The other 490 have been essentially in a rolling recession. That recession bottomed in April during liberation day. And his argument is now we are on a rolling recovery with a 7,800 S&P 500 target by the end of next year. But in order for that to realistically happen, his argument is you got to get rates to come down
>> on that broadening out and expecting maybe AI to underperform going forward as they invest more in some of these uh debt sales and the infrastructure side and the rest of the economy plays catch-up.
>> Absolutely. Think about the trickle down effect of this capital spending. I mean, it's not just going to be semiconductor companies. There's there's a lot of infrastructure. There's a lot of job creation. there's a lot of velocity in the real economy and the lending channel starts getting going perhaps for small medium businesses that job creation deregulation is another part of that story. Okay, so absolutely that's what should happen if things play out the way they they could. Now there's risk to that. Let's say the Fed continues to say, "Hey, you know, we still think there's inflation risk. We we don't like the, you know, inflation rate at 3%. We're not going to raise our our targets there and and we just kind of drag their feet." It's going to stay narrowed then. It's going to stay up the quality curve. And that's where we are right now, Lisa, is that people basically are are are trying to choose between those two outcomes. And I would say right now, most of the institutional community is still huddled into the high quality stocks. They haven't really made the transition yet.
>> Well, we we have in some of our guidance. Yeah, absolutely.
>> In order for that transition to work, the Fed has to cut though. That's what it's contingent on.
>> It's it's one of the main things. Now, Dereg is a big part of that. Okay. The capital spending is a part of that. Those can happen without the Fed cutting significantly, but it would really it would really solidify it for And if you go back and look at all these different economic cycles, small caps and mid, you know, lower quality stocks typically don't outperform until the Fed gets below two-year Treasury yields. We we've documented this. So, by the way, it doesn't mean these stocks can't work in absolute terms. It just means that relative outperformance you typically get in that early cycle rotation needs Fed funds to be much lower.
>> If you look at the Fed,
>> so Mike Wilson actually making the argument that we are early cycle. I mean, it's definitely a contrarian perspective from a lot of the other people. Then again, it's not as contrarian because all of his colleagues on the street have a lot of the same targets on the S&P, right around that 7,7500 range if you go out into 2026. So, um, his argument is just we need rate cuts and in order to get those rate cuts, the Fed has to acknowledge that they're behind the curve. And part of the reason over the past three weeks why things have been so ugly is because we've not we've completely pivoted or the Fed has completely pivoted on the idea of us in in any sense of the imagination actually getting those rate cuts in December. probabilities have continued to go down and that has also led to a lot of pain in the equity markets. Well, we're at 50% right here. We were at 41% yesterday. So maybe some of that jobs data by ADP negative 2500 jobs for last week got these probabilities go up. Here's where the optimism comes in and and I think it's actually quite simple. If we get a bad jobs report in November and that jobs report tells the Fed very obviously guys like stop messing around. The labor market is not okay. like inflation is not the concern, right? It really is not the thing you should be worried about. I think that probability jumps closer to 90% and we get a rate cut. I don't know what the stock market does, but I definitely don't think the stock market has to take a dump. If we don't get the rate cut, I think it's more obvious than not that the stock market's going to get hit. And you can see the choppiness in the past couple weeks. It's almost like the market's teetering and tottering on the idea of if we get a rate cut or not. And at the same time, the the most hilarious thing about this is um when I look at analyst upgrades on stocks and I have tip ranks, so I you know, I get a lot of these notifications. All of these are upgrades and buys. All of them. Robin Hood got a buy for 160 today. Yesterday, Barkclay's upgraded Robin Hood 168. Google got an upgrade by Oppenheimer yesterday to 320 from 290. I mean, if you guys remember 2022, like a lot of it was downgrades. sell, get out of the market, reducing our price target because stocks are untouchable in a world in which the Fed is hiking and then in a world in which earnings growth is not there, which is what we had in 2022. I mean, maybe that's going to come in 2026, you know, maybe these analysts are just uh trying to keep the hope alive, but nonetheless, nothing fundamental has changed for Robin Hood. Nothing has changed for Google. Nothing has changed for Cororeweave. I mean Cororey getting slapped from 150 to 75. It's like I get it they have a lot of debt but my goodness like taking it down 50% seems a bit aggressive. And so the question simply then becomes you know is there something structurally that has changed in the economy that has led to this type of selloff and as of now the answer might be no but the answer might be yes it's just we need a little bit more data to kind of solidify that and you know hopefully we get that data soon. Yeah. What changed for Google is that Birkshshire bought more Google, which is why it's been holding up. But otherwise, what what actually changed in Google's core business? Fear and greed, by the way, is at 13. We were at four on April 8th. The lowest we were was at four. And um you know, now we're at 13. So, I don't know. I mean, if you look at the history of this thing as well, look at the timeline again at at we were at three actually on April 8th. We jumped all the way up to 70. Then came all the way down by June to 57. Jumped up to 74. Came all the way down to 50. Then we jumped to 66. Then we came all the way down to 23. That was a buying opportunity. Came up. I mean, every time we bounced technically, we went from extreme fear to fear. So theoretically, you would imagine that maybe this is a buying opportunity. The question is just do people believe it's a buying opportunity? Not to mention, um, I I don't know if this has been showing up in people's algorithm, whether it's on YouTube or or Twitter, but my goodness, the amount of bubble bearishness, it's all fake, it's all going to collapse stuff that has been popping up for me, and I'm not necessarily the most bearish person ever. So, the fact that it's popping up on mainstream channels, it's kind of crazy. I mean, you had an entire 57 minute podcast yesterday with Jeffrey Gunlock, who is pretty respected in the finance world on Bloomberg, basically saying everything's overvalued. You got to get the hell out of everything. Uh, private credit is a massive bubble. He compares it to 2006 and he's saying we're going to collapse. And then look at the video on my recommended. Jesse Felder, the AI bubble of all bubbles is about to hit. It's just like it's becoming aggressive, bro. It's almost like sentiment is shifting rapidly. Uh Gunlock is a bonds guy, correct? And that's why he hates what's going on in the private credit market and he's starting to really get afraid that it's going to affect the stock market. Crossroads says AI dumerism is rampant. It is definitely rampant. And and and it's it's AI dumerism connected with everything that we've known as a society and the financial institutions of like the global economy are fake. Like you're getting to the point where people are going to the point where it's not just AI, it's everything is fake and like don't even buy gold. Just put your cash under your mattress to be able to sleep well at night. That is also what it kind of felt like in April, right? You had the the the uh the the the catalyst of um the liberation day tariffs obviously to kind of get things in motion, but that's also what it felt like. And what did retail do? Retail bought the dip. question is going to be is that going to be a solution that can you know continue to hold on. Is X not working again? No, X is working. Okay, it's starting to work. Now again, in terms of buying the dip, institutions have been buying. I've been showing a lot of that data and we have more and more charts that show that institutions have continued to buy. Hedge funds have been selling. Retail investors have actually been selling. But institutional money managers have been meaningfully buying the dip as per Bloomberg, as per Reuters. I'm looking at a variety of different charts and they continue to say Bank of America ETF inflows continue to say that institutions are buying. So it also then begs the question of like okay I mean is this a fake out? Is this a lot is this uh market makers trying to get people scared? Has something fundamentally changed to such an extent that you know Robin Hood at 125 seemed reasonable and now it looks like the street wants to take Robin Hood below 100. like what realistically changed? I think the first thing that changes crypto took a hit, right? So, obviously Robin Hood deserves to get hit a bit off that and that's fair, but are we going back to 90 bucks? Are we, you know, is Nebius going back to 50 bucks? Is SoFi going back to 15? Like, are we are we getting to that part of the cycle where everything that we had this year, all of those gains just collapse? I don't think so. I mean, that feels a bit aggressive. And the reason I'm saying that is not because of like like like like flowers and rainbows. It's because of earnings growth and like the earnings growth on a SoFi is amazing. The earnings growth on a hood is amazing. Now maybe Hood's multiple aggressive. That's why I understand I've been saying that for months. I'm like I understand it doesn't need to go to 150, but I don't think it needs to go back to $95. Like I think we're discounting a lot at that point. And it seems like those end up those hopefully will end up just becoming good buying opportunities. But I think it really is all up to the Fed and what they want to do with rate cuts. Pound right there. That's down about 2.2%. Tesla's down about half a percent. Google still holding grain. Amazon down 2% back to 228 after the guidance for AWS growth uh after the open AI deal. I mean a lot of that stuff just fundamentally being discounted. I ran back down 2% and then Rockol down 2% as well. A bubble never burst in panic. I agree. That's another thing like when you have this type of dude Bitcoin below like so you have two different perspectives, right? One perspective at least I was seeing from the crypto community yesterday is that Bitcoin is topped. it's over and we're all getting hit and as a result like get ready to see all the pain uh for the crypto bare market that has started. You have other perspectives from people saying uh you can't top with Bitcoin barely getting above 100,000 and then falling to like 89,000 and then rebounding. It's like that's not what the top looks like. Now, who knows exactly what the top looks like? You have various different perspectives here on the idea of how this is going to play out. And you know, now we're seeing it happen in real time. Um Chris says, "Did you see about the video of Sundar?" Chris, I saw that video, but I did not save it. If you have the link, please send me the link. I would love to see it. Um I'll play this video in the meantime. This was Jeffrey uh Gunlock yesterday talking about bonds. But yeah, there is a video of Sundar addressing this kind of AI bubble thing and I'll pull that up in a second.
>> One thing that you also referenced a little bit is the quality of the public corporate credit market is better than
>> Okay, you guys can barely hear that. Hold on. Let me get the YouTube version of this. Uh let's pull this up. Okay. But one thing that you also uh referenced a little bit is the quality of the public uh corporate credit market is better than it's been historically. It's way better than it was prior to the global financial crisis where you've had all kinds of garbage lending going on. But in recent years, the garbage lending has not gone to the public markets. The garbage lending has gone to these private markets. And private credit has been very popular and is now increasingly been overallocated to by large asset pools. I remember Harvard University for example, they've got like a 50 odd billion dollar endowment and their donors pulled back when they had uprisings on campus and the donors didn't like what was going on. So they stopped donating for a while and Harvard had no money, a 50 odd billion dollar endowment and they couldn't pay salaries. They couldn't pay the light bills. They couldn't pay basic maintenance. They had to go to the bond market to borrow. They tried to borrow about four billion dollars. I think I I think they got away with about $2 and a half billion dollars. But it's fascinating that you have a huge asset pool that doesn't have liquidity to pay the bills. And I've also
>> that's one example of many that Jeffrey mentioned of private credit and these bad loans being given out and the idea that Harvard, you know, couldn't pay their bills when with a $50 billion endowment them that them feeling that the credit markets were so easy to tap into just to be able to pay their own salaries, which is kind of crazy because they're Harvard. You would think they have the money for that. Uh that goes to his point about why things are relatively frothy in the private credit market. This is Sundar on AI bubble concerns. of this technology the excitement is very rational. Um it's also true when we go through these investment cycles uh you know there are moments we overshoot right collectively as an industry uh we can look back at the internet right now there was clearly a lot of uh excess investment but none of us would question whether the internet was profound or did it drive a lot of impact it's fundamentally changed how we work digitally uh as a society I expect AI to be the same so I think It's both rational and there.
>> Okay, you got the video struggling to play a little bit because X is down. X is still down for those that are asking. I mean, some of it's working for me, some of it's not. But I mean, Sundar is not saying anything that controversial, right? He thinks there's going to be some excess investments in AI and like I think that's pretty obvious. We're probably going to have some overinvestment and some companies, you know, are not going to be able to pan out the way we think they are. But nonetheless, saying that on a day like this when the market's already so concerned about the AI trade, you know, it just adds more fuel to the fire of pain for what the market is thinking about. And that also could be a concern. By the way, if the stream randomly ends, it's because Streamyard runs on Cloudflare. So, if it's somehow just taps out in the middle of the day, uh it's probably a Cloudflare situation. By the way, if if uh if you're on your um if you're on your desktop, don't type in twitter.com. Type in x.com because when I type in Twitter, it it doesn't work. When I type in x.com, it works. It's kind of weird because usually twitter.com just redirects to X, but for some reason X works instead. Uh Microsoft did get a downgrade today as well. Trying to see from what firm and what price. Um huh. Rothschild. uh Rostsh Redburn downgrades to neutral cuts price target to 500. They said the challenge for the stock is twofold. Firstly, value creation from generative AI related revenues is far lower than under traditional cloud one economics as detailed in the report and now takes roughly six times more capex to generate the same level of value making the business structurally more capital intensive. Secondly, we see value leakage within Office 365 as the integration of thirdparty models such as OpenAI and Anthropic shifts value away from Microsoft. Huh. Okay, so that's one of your first downgrades of the day on Microsoft. Uh, not from like a super super super large firm that's been following the name for a while, but nonetheless, you do have an argument that capital intensive um expenses are going to eat into their margins. And then I mean you did have Sam Alman the other day saying that there should be a AI version of Windows and you know that could potentially be something that takes away from Windows 365. But that's one argument that you have there. We do have another headline. US Saudi expected to announce deal on multi-billion dollar investment in America's AI infrastructure. Senior administration official. Uh look, that's good. The US and Saudi last time Trump was in office also made a big deal. I think it was about $150 billion. I don't know if that's enough to get the market to be excited. Chris says that was the same analyst group that downgraded Fiser when it was at all time highs. Well, now they are downgrading Microsoft. We Fiser, by the way, was one of the actual uh big stocks that was bought in Q3 by institutional guys. Don't know if they cut their stakes. We'll find out in 45 days, but you did have a decent amount of them buying in that 120 range. Uh the the Saudi um investment stuff is good. I don't know if it's going to affect the markets too much. Elon is reportedly going to be at the dinner with the Saudi prince and Trump. I think it's today or tomorrow. Uh so I guess ties between Elon and Trump are getting better, at least the relationship. But Elon will be at that dinner. I'm not sure how much this overall investment is going to matter. I mean, maybe it helps the defense contractors, but right now, we've got a massive sentiment issue, and I think everyone can feel it. Uh, and the sentiment issue is revolving around the AI trade and questioning if it's a bubbler or not, Fed if they're going to cut rates or not, and then three, are things just naturally overpriced, right? Are stocks just still expensive and bubbish? And that, you know, that gets into the whole private credit and kind of asset classes in general. Do you want to be there? And it doesn't help when you have influential people like the Line of Valuations at NYU tell 250,000 people on a podcast that he's thinking of collectibles as a way to hedge against the inevitable AI bubble collapse. I mean, he even mentioned Pokemon cards. Like, I'm listening to this and I'm like, "Wow, I have never heard him this bearish ever." I mean, it's almost like he was like speaking in a prophetic way that's like, "Yes, this will collapse. I'm telling you it's going to happen." Um, I don't know exactly when, but it will indeed happen. And, you know, that that that affects a lot of people's psychology. And then you get the compounding effect of a variety of different people saying the same thing. And, you know, that definitely hurts sentiment long term. Home Depot, they had earnings today. They missed by 2% on EPS, 374 versus 383. Beat on revenue 41.35 versus 41.12. Uh, Home Depot stock is down 4%. I don't think it's just down 4% on those numbers. It's probably down because the entire market is down unless they said something about tariffs that I didn't see, which we can check out in their earnings, but that could be hurting them right now. Um, I think that was the most important earnings today. Was it? I think that was Home Depot. Yeah, we had by due from China. They beat on the top and the bottom. This is like China's Google. These guys are down 4%. By the way, the Japanese prime minister uh the new Japanese prime minister, she is uh she's pretty ballsy. Let's just say that. In a meeting with Chinese diplomats, she basically said uh if you guys try to invade Taiwan, we will defend ourselves because it will create it will trigger a clause in their constitution around self-defense. And so if you because you know there there are islands that are very close to Taiwan that Japan owns. And so she was like, "Hey, if you try to do anything like we're going to strap up basically." And China was like, "Oh, really?" And that's why China triggered the travel warning to Japan and now they're blocking certain people from going there. They're stopping certain state-owned businesses from doing trade. And China is basically just like uh China said the exact quote was we will decapitate anyone that tries to interfere in Chinese politics and our own self-defense concerns. And uh basically they said stay away from what we're trying to do. So, China deployed the same strategy 10 years ago with South Korea when the South Koreans started talking a little bit more um aggressively around, you know, China potentially invading Taiwan. And re realistically over the past 10 years before this new Japanese prime minister, the previous Japanese prime ministers like ashiba, they just didn't say anything. You know, it was kind of just like, hey, we just don't talk about that. This lady a couple days ago, she was like, I'm going to talk about it. And the Chinese got pretty upset about that. So that is another thing that has been aiding the or ailing the the the Chinese and Japanese markets. And you know, Japan printed a ton of money or is getting ready to print a ton of money. So that's also triggering a lot of things around Japanese bond markets. We talked about that yesterday. Potentially not the best for the yen carry trade. But you have that and what they said about China, which is, you know, kind of making at least the Japanese markets a bit more scared. The NK, by the way, was down 3% yesterday. Did it end 3%? Yeah, ended 3.22%. 22 2% risk on excitement in Japan starting to fade a bit. Now again the Nikk up 23% for the year. So it's had a hell of a year down 3%. You can't complain too much about that. Same thing with the S&P. I mean look at we ended up you know 10% like yeah it's not a bombastic year but 10% is still a really good year for the S&P in in you know the overall historical trajectory of how the S&P compounds. But does the NK lose a lot of this 23%. Does the S&P just go back to 6,000 and lose all of its gains from January even though it's up from 4,800 on April? I don't know. But if that were to happen, I think that's the biggest fear a lot of people have. And obviously that's that fear is creating a lot more selling pressure because now people are thinking at least let me protect something. And you know that might also be why we're having some pain. Here is the jobs update we got about 20 minutes ago from ADP.
>> Jobs or jobless figures from ADP. cave.
>> Yeah. Minus 25500. Remember what we're saying here. The ADP come out with this new preliminary report. It gives us the change, the average change over the past four weeks. So minus 2500. That would equate, you can multiply roughly by four and say for a month's period of time. That would be minus 10,000. That we're looking at there, by the way, is the estimate for the Thursday release of the uh September jobs report. Plus 50,000. You can see the two prior numbers here. some talk about whether those are revised higher or lower, but clearly Thursday is the most important meeting or most important data point for six weeks that we've had, but this preliminary uh numbers we have from ADP um suggesting that there has been weakness - 11,000 - 2500. Real quick, as you remember, we had jobless claims that somehow came out from the Department of Labor. We're not really sure, but 232. Um, and then
>> literally the jobs claims came out last night at 12 a.m. I mean, just like the the types of data transparency and the schedule of data is completely messed up. No one knew it was coming out, but just randomly came out. And so I maybe randomly throughout the next coming days, we'll just get different pieces of data that we didn't know we were going to get, but this is at least one that we got last night.
>> 1.957 that is along the lines of what we thought was happening given the alternative data we were talking about, Andrew. interesting times trying to cobble this together. What the heck is going on with this economy? Uh but uh kind of negative negative numbers here when it comes to the jobs report from ADP. Job openings are down as well. A couple different charts we looked at as well. I mean, you are seeing a lot more pain in the labor market. Everything I look at when it comes to labor market, there is nothing that's bullish or there's nothing that would say, "Oh, that's a that's a green flag." I mean, maybe it's not horrendous like the labor market, the the the jobless claims of 232,000. That's not horrible, but it's not like it's amazing. And so, again, I just don't understand in what world will the Fed not look at the data and not cut. Um, but nonetheless, it seems like they're going to have to cut. Nvidia right there, 184, 1.39%. Now, tomorrow's Nvidia earnings as well. That's going to be a big well because um obviously you're going to need Nvidia to do very well and you're going to need them to beat expectations and beat in a very meaningful way. And from all the analyst reports I've read, it does look like Nvidia is getting up for a massive beat and raise. The question is, is that going to be enough in the face of the market thinking that we're not getting a rate cut? And it doesn't help when you have Michael Bur tweeting long Molina and long Palunteer puts. you know, like it's just again you you know when when you have someone influential saying stuff like that and then you have him being bearish invidia and the whole AI capex trade. I think Molina was up this morning. Molina Healthcare is one of the names he has. Molina is up 3%. Um you know it starts to become mainstream and a lot of the question will then turn to the macro environment and not the earnings picture. I think Pounder is going to have an amazing Q4. I think Nvidia is going to have an amazing Q4. I think a lot of these companies are going to have very very strong Q4s and growth is going to be strong. It doesn't seem like growth is dissipating. If growth somehow doesn't excite investors in any way and you've got sentiment that's already bad, that's when I think people run for the hills. And so now it's like every company has to perform and they have no choice but to execute. And look, they should be held to that standard, right? These companies are getting premium valuations. Even still after this draw down they should be able to put up amazing amazing results to justify it but now it's kind of like there is no margin of error because the sentiment is already bad then you're going to get some pain. The other question here is that um you know there is not really FOMO in the markets anymore. I think a lot of us felt that back in October when you had the quantum stocks and the nuclear stocks going crazy. Uh a lot of that FOMO is is is died out and so a lot of the money the excess money that was coming into the markets. Bank of America was talking about this from retail was due to just retail chasing different names that was playing out. And I think that's healthy that that's not happening. Like that's actually a good structural thing that has started to come down. But the lack of that FOMO means that if a hood were to go below 100, which I don't know if it will, but let's say it does. Like is that is there that knee-jerk excitement to be like I have to buy this dip? Because if that excitement broadly starts to dissipate, then you just might not have people that get excited for dips. And as a result, these stocks kind of just oscillate in new ranges until they have more fundamental catalyst. But we're going to have to see eventually how that plays out as we get into the end of the year. Uh, senator seek probe of Trump crypto venture over alleged token sales linked to North Korea and Russia. What? Senators seek probe of Trump crypto venture over alleged token sales linked to North Korea and Russia. See, this is why Bitcoin is dumping. This this [ __ ] is why crypto is down. What? Which crypto venture are they talking about? Because there's so many of them. You know, you have the the Trump Suns crypto companies. You have the Trump meme. Do you remember there was a Trump memecoin? Do we remember that happened? Oh my gosh. North Korea and Russia. Okay, we'll uh we'll keep up with that story and see if that's his kids. Okay. So, that's that's uh is that a world liberty? That's the one. World liberty, right? By the way, gold up on the day. Gold's still green. You know, I never thought world liberty was legit, dude. It always felt like nonsense. Like all the crypto stuff the Trump administration has launched, whether it was the Trump meme cocoin, the Lani memecoin, Worldcoin, ABTC, all of it felt like just garbage. And that was I mean look when the memecoin came out from Trump I was pretty honest about just I just think it's the most unethical thing you could do from being in that position of power to pump some useless piece of nonsense to millions of people that are going to buy it because you have a loyal legion of followers. Unfortunately it doesn't matter right because it's Trump's SEC so he can do whatever he wants and Paul Atkins is not going to investigate him on that. And and look even if senators are seeking approve of the Trump crypto venture is that even going to work? Is like the DOJ going to take that seriously? I mean, they could seek a probe, but is it actually going to result in any meaningful cooperation from the SEC? So, I don't know. But those are some of the things that are also probably creating a little bit more bad narratives in the context of of crypto. By the way, the uh the Republicans are going to be voting on the uh the Epstein bill today. It'll officially be voted on. Uh Trump has told people that or told the Rep Republican senators that they should vote yes to release it. So kind of flipped his tone completely from a couple days ago and or even over the past couple months and he's basically like, "Yeah, we have nothing to hide and let's release it." Larry Summers, by the way, uh, who was once the president of Harvard, once the secretary of treasury under Bill Clinton, he has stepped down from his public-f facing role at Harvard yesterday as he said he is embarrassed for the intimate relationship he had with Jeffrey Epste. I went through some of the emails last night. Apparently, he was asking Epstein for advice on how to have an affair, and Epstein was like giving him pointers. He should have asked Bill Aman. Blackman would have easily been like, "Dude, may I meet you just immediately, like you're good." But he asked Epstein instead. And um yeah, dude, you know what? You know what I realized last night when I saw this? Whether it's the Trump memecoin, whether it's the guy who was the president of freaking Harvard asking a pedophile for a fair advice, I'm just like, dude, like everything is so corrupt. Everything is just so corrupt. all the elite institutions, all of the elite people that run those institutions. Like you don't want to sound pessimistic or nihilistic, but you just start to be like, dude, is everything corrupt. Is that is that just how the world work? Like every single thing is intertwined in a form of corruption? And so I'm happy that the these files are going to get released because I mean, everyone deserves to get exposed over what's happening with this. And hopefully the vote goes through. Hopefully the senators do not back down now that Trump has said you're allowed to vote for it. I would hope they actually vote for it and we get as many answers as possible, especially for the victims that deserve to, you know, have that out into the world so that people know what actually happened. Pin Duo Duo, they missed by 1% on revenue. They beat beat by 27% on EPS 296 versus 233, 15.2 versus 15.3 on revenue. PDD, this was a stock that um another super investor added. I'm forgetting their name. That stock's down 3.9%, but it was one of the other names that got added by a bunch of different people. All right, we got six minutes until the market opens. Uh, what did we say on the poll? 63% of you guys said red. All right, so more people expecting red than green. Here's the most important thing today about the S&P. We are basically at Friday lows. We bounced literally off these levels last Friday. If we violate these levels, we are headed to probably 655. And uh if we're headed to 655, then the question is, you know, going to be where does we where do we bottom at? Is there a bottom? Is this just Nvidia pre-earnings jitters or, you know, which which in fairness to the market, we always have volatility before Nvidia like every single time a couple days before Nvidia, the market tends to be jittery. It's just this jittery behavior is now attached to a variety of different issues. uh one of them being the labor market. This is job openings on a decline. This is that chart I was talking about and that's also creating some more pain. Yeah, BMR barely holding 30. I mean it's obviously ETH has been hit. Yes, we will have technical Tuesday today. So we'll have Jason on later uh on the close and so we will get all of his thoughts on what's going on from a technical perspective. I mean literally Tesla got upgraded yesterday. It's quite incredible. You got all this bearishness in terms of discussions around bubble and labor market and then you have Tesla getting upgraded. It's like Tesla trades at a pretty aggressive multiple. So it's like you have some part of the market that's like no no no no like this AI story is real. It's not going anywhere. It's it's here to stay and as a result these are stocks that are just in incredible opportunities for people to buy. And then you have another part of the market that says we've topped and it's downhill from here. And I like really two completely diametrically opposed views on what's going on. And I guess we'll, you know, over the next coming weeks when we get more data and we get this Fed decision, we'll have a better understanding of what's happening. This is another reason I think we went red yesterday. Amazon's $15 billion bond offering. So demand came in at 80 billion, which is 5x more than what they were offering. The longest term was a 40-year bond priced roughly 80 bips above treasuries. Proceeds will support acquisitions and help funds Amazon's $125 billion capex spent for AA infrastructure. Remember, Amazon does not give a dividend or buy back their stock. So, they are now tapping the debt markets as well. The other big concern here is uh why are these companies tapping the debt market? And I think it is inevitable. But we all have to acknowledge we are at the part of the cycle where Amazon, Meta, Google, Oracle, the Oracles tap into the debt markets to a to a pretty aggressive extent are going to need debt to finance this stuff. They're not going to be able to just do it through free cash flows. And so you literally have to ask yourself as an investor, do I believe that Meta, Google, Amazon, etc. taken on this debt to build out these data centers will result in such a strong return on this investment, return on invested capital over the long term that I can hold on to these stocks without being afraid of what happens. And I think for some of those companies like a Metagle, Amazon, Microsoft, it's like, yeah, I think you know, you buy those and wake up in five years, they're probably higher than what they are today because the value of those companies should increase due to the due to the investments that they're making in AI. But you have a subsection of the market that's just rejecting that. And Meta stock price is an obvious example of why they're rejecting it. They just don't believe the capex investment should be rewarded. The fear that some people have is that if these stock prices get I mean like imagine Meta gets to like under 500, right? Some crazy scenario where it just completely collapses. Um Meta is probably going to stop spending on capex. And if they stop spending on capex, that not only affects the chip companies, all of them, Nvidia, Micron, AMD, like all of them get hit if that comes out. But number two is GDP growth in the United States. 50% of GDP growth over the past two and a half years has been capex. And so it really begs the question, is there an ROI on this type of capital expending, which I think we're already seeing the early innings of that is true. And then can the market digest tapping the debt markets to be able to get to that inevitable ROI? Or does sentiment shift and everyone's like, "Yeah, there's no AI race. It doesn't really matter. There's no prisoners dilemma. People don't have to be buying hundreds of thousands of GPUs every quarter and things, you know, can move on and life goes forward." I think those are the two different narratives that are really competing for attention. And over the coming months, we're going to get a lot more data on how this ends up playing out. two minutes until this market opens. Yes, Cloudflare again is uh down for a lot of websites. X is working. It was not working in the morning. For some of you guys, it's probably still not working. YouTube's okay. Streamyard's okay. Uh a lot of you guys are saying that at your job it's not working. So, at least that's your excuse for not getting work done today. That is the that is the excuse to dealing with it. By the way, Garcia had a great tip yesterday. Shout out to Garcia. Um, very simply put, if you don't want to check your portfolio, just just remember, Face ID is not going to work if you're crying. So, as you can see right there, you know, if you really don't want to see the pain, literally your tears will make it impossible for Face ID to work. So, that's uh that's one form of not being able to to see your portfolio today. So, there you go. All right. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Tuesday, November 18th, 9:30 a.m. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. S&P 500 66230 66230. We are trying to bounce from that 662 low. We did go below 662 for a second. Down about half a percent. Bitcoin 91.2. That one getting a bounce. Robinet actually gets a little bit of a bounce at 115. Meta gets a little bit of a bounce at 596 from 589. Nvidia uh not really a bit of a bounce. You're getting something there. Grab getting a half a percent move. Nebia is still down 2%. SoFi down 1.3 2% Micro Strategy up a little bit because Bitcoin is up. Ethereum's up a little bit. Where is BMR? BMR is at 3106. That's actually green. Cipher is green. Bit farm's green. Super Micro is green. Eli Liy is just turned red but basically green. EOSE, that energy stock that's down 1.23%. Robin Hood actually trying to go green right here. We'll see if it gets there. We need to get to 116. Nvidia 1835. S&P is below 662. You are still down. Again, we saw this happen for the past couple days where we kind of make a little bit of a pump, then a dump, then a pump, then a dump. So, we're going to have to see if there's any trend that comes through here. Home Depot's down 4% on earnings. Might be something they said about tariffs that's hurting the market. Meta right back down to 593 from 595. Nvidia, Nvidia just has no bounce at all. Nvidia new lows of the day. Nvidia looks like she wants to, you know, looks like she wants to go below 180 quite frankly. on 8275 on Nvidia. Where is the lab of rockets? That is 4271 down 1.5%. Where is ESTS? That is 5591. That is now down 1.59%. Palunteer is 168.881. That's down 1.4% losing 170. S&P looks like she's going to lose 661. She did for a second 660.96 on the S&P. VIX should be up. VIX is up 7%. 2383 VIX is up 7%. Fear and Greed was at 13 in the pre-markets. It is still 13 as the market has opened. You saw some of these names try to get a little bit of a a even Pure trying to get back to 170 right here. Like it's trying, but it's kind of hard with everything else going down. So those moves get rejected pretty quickly. Open Door that's down 3.5. TSSI fell 40% after earnings. That's down. Amcor Amcore was $37 a week ago. Now it's at $30.60 again. Nothing really changed in Amcor's story over the past week. But markets come down, markets come down. And that's one thing I also do want to say. It's like, dude, a lot of these names that are down, nothing has changed in their fundamental stories. You can tell me the macro changed, and I'll be the first to tell you the macro has definitely started to change and get people to be worried. But in terms of the actual stocks themselves, like the actual earnings of the company or the stories around the company, not much has changed, right? Like you can understand why a micro strategy goes down because it's tied to Bitcoin and Bitcoin's down. But that doesn't necessarily explain why a packaging company for semiconductors in Arizona like Amcor goes down simply because the market's down. But if the market's down, then everything's down. And I think that's also another reason these names have got hit. That might not be the worst reason they're down. That quite frankly is probably one of the better reasons because if the market rebounds because there is no structural change, a lot of these names can rebound as well. S&P 664, you do have a green candle right there. You do have a green candle right there trying to get a move. It's about a$150 away from going green on the day if it does go green. 66486 or 66426. Micro strategy almost 300 or 200. Ethereum little bounce. Uh to be fair, not much changed when it was going up either. I agree with that to an extent. So some names went a bit ballistic and they probably didn't deserve to and I think I think that's fair. But I mean a lot of those names also put up really good earnings and you know they deserve to get a bit of premium from the market. But I agree they you know maybe Rocket Lab doesn't deserve to be 75. Does it deserve to get basically you know cut in half down to the 40s? I don't know. And so the question is where the market settles in on what the appropriate price is. But I agree none of them had to go up as much as they did. But did they have to go down as aggressively as they did? Or maybe did they have to do that in order to find a range to settle at? Which is also not crazy to imagine. Google right here 287. That's still green. Tesla goes red. That's down 1.3. Where's Quantum? D-Wave down about half a percent. IQ up a little bit. Regetti that's up a little bit. Applovin 539 got a little bit of a bounce from 527 again. Applovin was $750 at one point before the SEC probe came in. Palenteer very close to 170. Is PayPal actually at 160 or 61? Wow. PayPal at 61. If they take PayPal below 60, this is going to be quite crazy. Cloudflare is recovering. It was down five. Now it's down two. Um, Oaklo. Did Oak go green? Oaklo Oak somehow went green. It's weird, dude. You got a lot of different names that will go up and down simultaneously, but then they'll get rejected at key levels. And like S&P broke through 664 and then boom, gets rejected at 66426, now right back to 66275. It's almost like without the jobs data, without the Fed transparency on a rate cut, and without Nvidia earnings, this is just a game of traders going back and forth. I mean, there isn't really any trend that the market is reasonably able to form because there's just not enough news or they're waiting for something big before deciding. Bitcoin 92. Okay, little bit of movement up from 89,000 last night. Has anyone bought the dip on Bitcoin at all? like just straight bought Bitcoin at these levels below 100,000. Weeble looks like it's about to go below $8, $810. Dualingo somehow up today. SBets's up a little bit. Spotify is down a little bit. AMD down 2.64. VIX is almost the same as October 16th. That is correct. VIX is matching October 16th right now. Almost exactly. It's it's like a dollar away from matching October 16th. You know, if you bought the VIX this year, um, you outperformed the S&P, which is kind of crazy, right? VIX was up 32% this year. The S&P is up like 14%. That's kind of wild. You could have went long volatility and outperformed going long America. Like, that's crazy, bro. And if you went long Bitcoin, I mean, you lost money this year. And the the thing about Bitcoin that's so interesting is like this administration is so pro- crypto not only with their legislation but also with their own uh ventures that are now being investigated as per reports this morning that you would think that there would be this like inbuilt incentive whereas in reality you see a lot of OG wallets that have been selling you know that bought Bitcoin in 2010. It's almost like they were using Sailor and the Trump administration has basically exit liquidity and the administration is there to pump these up so that these guys can get out of it. At least that's what we're seeing from a lot of the OG sellers that have been starting to get rid of some of their Bitcoin. Robin Hood goes green. Wow. Somehow Hoodie going green on the day. Weird, but Hood goes green. Poly Market now says 47% cut and 51% no cut. Yeah, the Fed probability tools from CME also says 50%. I think that labor data this morning from ADP kind of pumped up the potential. Yesterday was at 41%. Which is why things can change really quick. We get a bad job market report which I think all of us are kind of expecting because of the headlines we've seen. Um I think the Fed starts to want to cut pretty quickly. By the way, shout out to um Governor Waller. He was at some meeting yesterday and he was almost like yelling at the part not the participants but like the people that were there and he was just like what is wrong with you guys? is like we absolutely need to cut rates. And in particular, he said this whole tariff stuff about inflation is not something that we can be concerned about.
>> Saying it's above target or tariffs are going to cause a bunch of inflation, which it ain't happening. It should have already happened. We're not seeing it. We're not forecasting it. So, you know, start giving me a lot better reasons for saying you're not going to cut. Saying it's I mean, just listen to the tone of his voice. it ain't happening. Give me a lot better reasons to tell me we're not going to cut. He's one of the only people on the Fed that has some sense of like, yeah, I don't know why the hell we're thinking of not actually cutting. And hopefully he's able to influence some of the other Fed officials that for some reason decided overnight that we need to not cut. But you have someone who's sane, who's just like, "What are you guys talking about?" Like we're really worried about inflation when credit card delinquencies are hitting their highest in 16 years. We're worried about inflation. Subprime auto hitting its worst since 2008. We're worried about inflation. It's like no, we need to give consumers some relief. We need a cut. But that is not the majority view of the Fed, unfortunately. Bit mine right here up 3%. Bit mine is green 31.88. That's moving higher as Ethereum is moving up a little bit. pounder right there gets back to 170. Is Hood still green? Hood somehow holding green 116 right there. Uh and then Meta continues to go down 1.5% 592. Canada housing starts 232,000 versus 265 expected. Okay, so 30,000 less in Canadian new home starts. We don't have US new home starts yet because we don't have government data, but hopefully we get it soon. Um, you guys are saying new tweet from Trump, but Truth Social for me is not working because of Cloudflare. So, I'll see if it loads up and see if I can get some tweets. Nvidia 18365. And then Cipher, that one goes up. Okay. His last tweet was an hour ago. It was about healthcare. He says, "The only healthcare I will support or approve is sending the money directly back to the people with nothing going to big fat rich insurance companies who have made trillions and ripped off America. The people will be allowed to negotiate and buy their own insurance. Power to the people. Congress, do not waste your time or energy on this. This is the only way to get great healthcare in America." Where are the healthc care stocks? UNH, that's down 2%. CNC is down 3%. Eleance is down 2%. Oscar is down 4%. All right, you got Trump saying the healthcare companies are big, fat, and rich, and he does not want more money going to them. Probably not the greatest thing to say for these healthcare names to catch a bid. BMR right there, 3178, S&P 500 663. Palunteer, are we green? She's trying. And is up. And 676. That's up 8%. Lily is approaching alltime highs. How about the airlines? U that's up a little bit. Uh the FAA is now stopping the um like flights from being stuck at the airports due to the government being reopened. So you do have those that are starting up. UNH still down. American Airlines that's up just a little bit. Meta still getting hit. SoFi, I don't understand why SoFi is getting hit from some of these headlines outside of again just if every stock falls then SoFi is going to fall with it. But 2634 down another 2.63% did hit 3250 last week. Amazon, wow, they're taking it lower than yesterday. Amazon 228 very close to 227. very close to losing 228 before 227. Um the jobs report again that launched last night at midnight, that was the jobless claims 232,000. It was not a massive number, not a recessionary number by any sense of the imagination, but it was random and maybe the administration is just going to be randomly releasing data. It actually was good for the markets to realize that labor market's not that bad. Again, we need the labor market data to not be so bad to say we're in a recession, but we also don't need it to be so good to say that we don't need rate cuts. And that's the nuance there. Robin now goes red. I mean, dude, a lot of this is just wonky. Like Robin's 165, 1165, now it's at 11439. Within 2 minutes, it goes from breaking out green to now going red. Like I think a lot of this stuff is just waiting for Nvidia and waiting for jobs data because at this point everything is going back and forth. You cannot reason. I mean Paler just hit 17120 now back to 16850. There's not much to make sense of this. Like if you're going to go down then all right we're going to go down but it's like we're not going down. We're going up then down then up then down. that were slightly higher than slightly lower and then we kind of settle out flat for the day or slightly down. That's been the story of the past couple weeks. 662 S&P still has not hit 660.9 which was the absolute lows of the day but we are red. Yes, I would think that some of the algos are starting to come into place and they are taking it up taking it down. Pounder 16850 oak load down 1.8 8 SMCI, this one getting crushed, down 1%. Door Dash up 1%. Amcor potentially losing 30. Upstart, that's down half. Lenar is up a little bit. Birkshar is green. Burkshire is holding on. Market might also be thinking there's some safety there. Gemini 3 today. Is Gemini 3 coming out today? I thought it was next week. Wow, Google just went red from 296 to 283 on the Googs. Google just went red. 283 right here. Um I don't know if Gemini is coming out today. I think there's still speculation on that. I think it's more like next week. Nvidia 18194. That's down 2.4% 4% as well as that one is getting hit. I don't think a 1% move is getting crushed, but you have to look at it in context, right? In context, some of these names are down, you know, 20% over the past like week. So, that's what I mean by these names are continuing to get crushed. Now, granted, one could say that they didn't deserve to be up 20%, which is fair. That's a fair argument, but the decline still is pretty aggressive. Rock Lab right there, 4292. That's down one. Bit mine holding on because Ethereum's holding on. So, Bitmine, okay, Grab that one getting crushed. 528 down 1%. See, like again, when you look at Grab's earnings relative to the cash on hand plus the market cap, plus all the upcoming catalysts that are happening towards the end of the year. I mean, literally, Grab, we didn't talk about it today, but they initiated more um of a broader offering on stable coins. like Grab is getting into the crossber payment stablecoin business aggressively and uh that's like bullish for not only a variety of different blockchains obviously Ethereum but it's also bullish just for the financial inclusivity that they're going to be able to have to collect more different crossber payments market doesn't care on a day like this you know the earnings growing 25% market doesn't care so there's a lot of different things that are just being discounted across the board as everything falls down I mean SoFi SoFi down 3% % after one of the best earnings they ever gave. Market doesn't care. United just went red. American Airlines as well just went red. Is Verizon up? Verizon is up a little bit. Cruise lines are up a little bit. Let me pull up the heat map. Um, and see if we're seeing an obvious rotation. Oh, wow. The heat map website is running on Cloudflare, of course. Uh, let me see if I can get another one. Is Apple actually green today? Apple Apple's green. Okay, so this is another one. Tech is red. Apple's green. Utilities a little green. Into it a little green. Healthcare a little green. I mean not all the healthare but more pharmaceuticals versus healthcare. Okay. So you got people running to Apple for safety. Apple's look like it's about to go red though. Leaving tech and but but see it does make sense like Verizon going green. I understand that people want to get into something with a high yield safety dividend. But then why is up 5%. like this is a speculative drone company and like they they had an amazing earnings and and I I do think they deserve to get a premium but it's like on a day like this how is that green and Verizon's green but Nvidia is red like a lot of parts of this market are just very weird in terms of how they're trading by that's down 2% and Marta Libre that's also up about half a percent into it's up because of OpenAI in it had a deal with OpenAI today did they in it up 1.2% 2% into it open. They said the magic words today. They said open AAI. Wow. In it is partnering with OpenAI in a multi-year deal worth over a hundred million to bring Turboax, Credit Karma, Credit Karma, QuickBooks, and Mailchimp into Chat GBT. Dude, can the S&P 500 announce a partnership with OpenAI? Can they just be like, we are partnering with OpenAI to make the stock market go up? because I feel like that'd be enough at this point. Like that's pretty pretty simple to do, too. I think OpenAI would be down to make that deal as well. But I guess I guess into it decided today was their OpenAI moment and they went for it. It's like a lifeline. It's like you're playing Who Wants to be a Millionaire. It's like that's your last lifeline. It's like let's let's just call Open AI. Let's do it. Maybe that'll save us for a little bit. Into it of 1.2%. I hate doing taxes so much. Well, I mean, you know, we'll see what gains are left by the end of the year to tax. So, it's the one benefit of maybe seeing a little bit more pain. It's like, well, maybe it helps out on the taxes. Bit mine 3120, Home Depot down there. I was talking to someone yesterday. Uh I was talking to them from Canada and they're they're a pretty sophisticated trader and his take was uh and this is coming from a Canadian perspective but his take was I think the US is just super divided with the shutdown and like everyone's just been you know crying back and forth. Epstein files, Democrats, Republicans, they all hate each other. He was like I think you it was not Tanner. It was not Tanner. He was like I think you all need to go have your Thanksgiving. I think you all need to eat some turkey. I think you all need to spend some time with your family and when you come back you recognize that nothing has changed. And by the way, he makes a lot of money trading the US markets. So, he's very incentivized to to make sure that the markets do well. But he's just like, I think you guys need to go get some turkey and realize that everything is okay. And I'm like, maybe maybe that's what it's going to take. Or maybe it's going to take the Fed actually recognizing we need some rate cuts. But something's got to happen. S&P lows of the day. Lows of the day 660.65. Lows right here hit 660.4. Meta. Are we losing 590 on Meta? Wow, we lost 590 on Meta. 58878. Fear and Greed's at 11. Are we actually at 11? Yeah, we're at 11. Fear and Greed. Um, I mean, four was the pure lowest we ever got or three back in April. I mean, if we got to three, we would like probably looking at S&P like 6,200, 6,300 roundabout, maybe lower than that if we get to those levels. Nvidia 181 again, Nvidia was 191 on Friday. So, like it's it's obviously a sentiment shift over the past week. Pounder right there 168. And that sentiment could shift again with when Nvidia has good earnings. But as of now, that's how people are thinking of it. Netflix is green. The wealth effect is real. I feel poor as [ __ ] Yeah. I mean, look, there's some people that don't believe in the wealth effect, but I I think it's a psychological thing. Like if your portfolio is up, like forget just moneywise, like happiness-wise, you feel, you know, you feel like you've accomplished more in life because your net worth has gone up in a year. And so like you just feel like better and then obviously that influences, you know, money decisions. S&P, she looks like she wants to break 660. She looks like she wants to break 660. 659. She breaks 660. We are down below 660. Down below 660. Here's the other thing for people to remember as the market continues to take a hit. Microsoft right there 495. Wow. Microsoft really getting hit on that downgrade down 2.3%. I said this last week, I'll say it again. Donnie T, if he loses the market, he has nothing. If he loses the market, he has nothing. He's judged by the market. He judges himself by the market. He knows that at the end of the day, average Americans um and the lower to middle class cannot afford the cost of this country. That's why he's rolling back some of the tariffs. By the way, we didn't even talk about it, but Trump gave a speech uh at the McDonald's summit yesterday to franchisee owners about how great the country is and how affordable everything is. So, he's obviously trying to do some more campaign rallying around the idea of affordability. The point is if he loses the market, I mean, I would argue that he's going to do his best to not lose the market because if you lose people that are investing, I mean, all of these investments from all across the world that he got into the United States, if that if the trade-off was to focus on investments into the United States versus focus on affordability, then if you lose the stock market gains for the year, what's the point of all those investments? I mean, who cares at that point? Who cares that the Saudis are investing 150 billion into defense if the defense stocks aren't going up and no one's making money off that? Like the average American is not really going to see the impact of that in their grocery prices? And I think he knows that and I think the entire administration knows that, which is why they've started focusing on this affordability concept, but I think he's going to try to not lose the markets because he loses a lot if that happens. S&P trying to get a rebound to 660. He also did say $2,000 checks yesterday. He did confirm by the middle of 2026 he will distribute $2,000 checks to low and middle class people. I think the basent said under hundred thousand a year. If you make under hundred thousand then you will get a $2,000 check. Again I don't even know how that's possible because I think you need congressional approval to print a couple hundred billion dollars. I also don't know how the bond market's I mean could you imagine the bond market with printing 200 billion? I mean, I think Treasury yields are going to be like, uh, no, you're not going to do that. And they're going to spike back up to four and a half, 5% like they did in April, which, by the way, created the lows of the liberation day when Trump said, "All right, fine. I'm not going to do the tariffs anymore." So, I I really I think he's just saying it. I mean, in in no in no world do I think it makes sense for the bond market to print all this money when we already have rising deficits and debt. And two, it's like you need Congress to approve Like is Congress really going to come together and say yes because of the tariff dividend we are going to approve 200 billion to be printed potentially more than 200 billion to be distributed to people. You know the Democrats are not going to vote for that [ __ ] because they're not going to get any credit for it. So then he's going to have to get Republicans to be on board. And I don't know if he's going to get every Republican to be on board to print that much money. Nvidia right there 180.84 84 as that one continues to hit a low. Uh SPY will bounce off 650. That would be the next level, right, for it to meet. I mean, where do we on liberation? No, not liberation on uh October 10th. 647 was the low. 647. So, we bounced off. Yeah, just about 647 during that time, which is basically 650. So that might be your level.
>> Again, it's like, has something really happened over the past month to get back to those levels since October 10th? What's happened since October 10th? Well, all the companies that matter reported, and they all gave us amazing numbers. Now, the thing that also happened was a shutdown with uh a lot more headlines around layoffs, which is fair. And I we probably don't deserve to be at 690 like we were at uh two weeks ago. Like 100% agreed with that. Do we deserve to go down to the 640s? Like I think the market's going to have to figure out how bad does it really have to be. So fighting tooth and nail to hold 26. So 2606. It did hit 2593 for a second. Microsoft as well getting hit right here. Yeah, I mean unemployment and uncertainty with inflation I agree is probably the two biggest things. Micron down 5% as well that has happened and you know the market's trying to figure out exactly how they navigate that. Wow, Apple losing 270. Apple Yeah, there there was some really good news on Apple today as well about their um iPhone 17 weight times. It's like 30 days better than last year. So that the demand for the iPhone 17 particularly in China I mean the update on China was uh Apple has 25% market share now in China one in every four smartphones in China is an iPhone. I mean pretty good news around demand for the iPhone 17 but people still selling off Apple right here. I guess here's the question right? If people are selling off stocks and equities are getting hit and you know the broader market's taking a a big decline, where is that money going? I mean, if you guys had to guess, where do you think the money is going? Let's assume it's not going to another stock because people are afraid to put it into stocks. Gold just went red, by the way. I mean, is it gold? Is it crypto? Is it just under the mattress holding on to it? Money market funds. Maybe it's the VIX, but I think the average person would probably be just holding on to it versus the VIX Pokemon cards. Dude, I think it's going to cash. I think people are just scared and they're holding it in cash. I really do. I don't think it's going to gold. I mean, you could buy gold up 55% on the year, but it's like there's also a risk to that. It's not just like, oh yeah, I'm going to buy gold. First of all, it's not like, you know, there's some World War III happening. If that was happening, yes, money would probably just fall into gold easily, but gold being up 55%. more money going to gold doesn't feel like the most safe trade just given the riskreward going to turkeys defin not going to BMR yeah it feels like it's more going to cash than anything Bitcoin holding up on a relatively red day 91.4 before. I wonder when Trump addresses this. Trump so far has not talked about the stock market. Like every tweet has been about Epstein, healthcare, and the Democrats. Nothing has been about the the uh the markets. And I wonder if he ends up coming out and saying something anytime. Quantum is up. Yeah. Like how is Quantum up today while Nvidia is down 3%. Quantum just went red, but it was up like 3% two seconds ago. Now it's down 2%. I mean, just weird price action that's not making a ton of sense. S&P officially down 1% on the day. 65879. 65879. Tessy loses 400 again. 396 was at 380 on Friday, jumped to 410, went down to 390, jumped to 415 yesterday, now back down. S&P 500 and NASDAQ fall to their lowest intraday in over a month. Dude, QBTZ, I was so close to buying this [ __ ] at $11. I was so close to buying it. Like buying a lot of it, too. That's when D-Wave was at like almost 40 bucks. No, Dwave was at like 37, I think, three weeks ago. This is when the Wall Street Journal put out that article that, oh, the US is going to invest in quantum stocks, yada yada. I just had such a bad feeling about it. We talked about it over the past couple weeks. And I was so close to like maybe this, but but I was thinking, well, 2026, that'll be my hedge. Obviously, it collapsed way before 2026. So for anyone who did trade that I mean this thing went from 11 to 24 within like two weeks and he did well on that S&P right there 659 trying to get a bit of a bounce. Netflix right here up a little bit. Mid, do you think AI is a bubble? Do you think it's all over? No. I've been pretty clear about that. I do not think AI is a bubble. I do not think the investments we've seen in artificial intelligence are fake. I do not think the growth is fake. I just think sentiment has changed. And I think we need a bit more evidence to say it's full-on bubble. What I have been saying over the past couple weeks is the debt issuances from some of the smaller companies, not the hyperscalers, is annoying, and it's definitely getting the market to think twice about it. But I don't think that means it's a straightup bubble. Like every GPU that's available is being used. Grock 4.1 just came out yesterday. We are gonna have Grock 10. We're gonna have Chatbt 8 at some point. You know, Claude 4.5 is going to be Claude 7.8 one day. Like, we are going to have advanced models that are going to be changing every single faction of our lives. And we're already seeing that impact. It's just the market is having a hissy fit about all of it due to debt, due to capex concerns. And as a result, I think that's what you're seeing playing out. I mean again, Amazon 223 officially below where it was on earnings. They're growing AWS 20% for the first time since 2022. What is negative about Hey, you can't tell me Amazon's trading at some crazy multi. It's not Tesla trading at 200 times earnings. Like I'm not saying Amazon is the cheapest stock in the world, but it is absolutely not the most overextended stock in the world. Now, I think you really are seeing algos come in, panic selling coming in, people just being like, I just need to preserve some money. And they're going to their Amazon that they might have held for the past couple years and saying, "All right, I'm selling." Nvidia loses 180 179. S&P lows of day 657. We are officially down 1.18% on the day for the S&P. AMCR lost 30. UNH getting hit. UNH 311. Uh AMD, are we holding 230? AMD 225 down 6.5% on AMD. SoFi lost 26. Hood is somehow holding 112. Uh it's basically where it was in the pre-markets, but Hood is still red. Tesla loses 400. Grab loses 530. Google loses 280. Palanter loses 167. And then Bitcoin has a little bit of a red candle, but it's not really tanked yet. Still above 91. Still above 91. Triple V, thank you for the super chat. Thank you for being here, sir. I will be getting uh dinner with Triple V in a week and uh I'll be seeing him soon. But obviously on a account like his you guys, you know, we're all feeling the pain, but he's feeling the pain as well. You know, when you have stocks take 10 20% haircuts in a month. Obviously, if you're working with a lot of money, the losses on paper get pretty aggressive. And you're seeing that right here. You're seeing that right here across the board. Micro strategy right there 200.35, Ethereum 335. It's getting ugly. George Triple V is not my dad. No, he is a good friend. Uh I met him through Derek. A lot of you guys, you guys might be new to the channel. You don't know I have a friend named Derek and he lives in Miami and uh startup investor, entrepreneur, and Triple V is one of his good friends. Triple V has done very well for himself. Immigrant literally came to America with nothing. And uh you know, he's done very very well for himself by working his ass off. But that means that when you have a big portfolio, you know, you'll see some pretty big draw downs on days like this. S&P 1.3%. Wow. 656. Meta 584. Everything getting wrecked right here. Netflix somehow is green. I don't know how the market is thinking Netflix is holding up, but for some reason Netflix is holding up. Verizon's up. That makes sense on Verizon. into it said the magic words of OpenAI that's why they're green on I don't know how that's green but everything else getting hitter loses 166 VIX up 15 okay so a doubledigit VIX spike almost at 20 tends to be a little bit more of a spike and a panic a VIX reaction versus like a prolonged draw down which usually tends to mark a bit of a a bottom as things reverse. We don't see that bottom happening yet, but a VIX getting a 15% spike like that might be a bit more panic fear. Anthropic to buy 30 billion in Azure capacity, a new deal with Microsoft and Nvidia. Okay, I mean that's bullish. I don't know if that the market's going to care that much. Anthropic 30 billion. Oh wow. Nvidian Microsoft to invest in Anthropic. That's actually the bigger deal. Whoa. Okay. Anthropic is committed to buy 30 billion of Azure compute. Anthropic to contract added comput capacity up to 1 gawatt. Nvidia and Microsoft to invest in Anthropic. Nvidia committed to investing 10 billion. Okay. Okay, the problem here guys is that the problem here is that this is only feeding into the argument from the bears around this whole circular financing stuff. Nvidia says anthropic we'll give you 10 billion. Enthropic says, "Hey, Microsoft, we'll buy 30 billion." Guess what Microsoft's going to do? They're going to buy more GPUs from Nvidia. it it goes back in this circle that if there is an ROI at the end of the day doesn't matter long term but in the meantime I don't know if this is a bullish headline at all the only reason Microsoft's buying the compute is because Anthropic's buying the compute from them but the only reason Anthrop is buying the compute from them is because they're getting a $10 billion investment from Nvidia now granted Nvidia getting a little bit of green candle right here I I I don't I I think the deal is very similar to the other deals we've heard and those deals long term if you think there's an ROI will be bullish. It's just in the short term I think the immediate reaction might play into the fears of this circular financing stuff. Now if Anthropic becomes a multi- trillion dollar company and they needed all that compute and Microsoft was part of the infrastructure that provided them the compute and Nvidia obviously was providing them the chips then it all works out but you've got to believe that that that end north star for mic for open AAI and and Anthropic that are committing to all the spending and you've got to ask yourself as an investor do you believe in that? because if you don't, it's circular. If you do, then it's circular today, but it's long-term uh real in the future. That's the broader question. Everything is circular. Look at the government. Yeah, look, that's a fair point. I mean, the entire economy is circular at the end of the day, you know, we we talk about it in its most literal sense. Like the way value gets created is through things going around in a circle. It's just the the sort of short-term nature of how this circle is being perceived from a vendor financing perspective. That's what I think is scaring parts of the market. Now again, if OpenAI is doing hundreds of billions of revenue by 2030, as Sam Alman said, it doesn't become circular. They have the money to pay for all this stuff and they have the ROI on all the money they're paying. But until then, that's where the markets start to wonder. Um, see if we're getting any other data. Bitcoin still not pumping right here. Let's see if this anthropic deal helps Nvidia. I mean, Nvidia intraday low at 17965. This green candle that you're seeing is literally that anthropic Microsoft news. Let's see if I can get some coverage on that. If that ends up turning Nvidia green, then the market's perceiving that as more healthy than not. So, we have to see how the market thinks of that. Yeah, I got some coverage. Let's pull this up and let's see what we can get on this. Okay, here it is. Enthropic Microsoft Nvidia new partnership today. Nvidia investing 10 billion into Enthropic. Microsoft Microsoft buys Nvidia GPUs to power the compute that is provided for Anthropic. So there's the circle to a certain extent.
>> Yeah, my head's spinning just hearing that.
>> Yeah.
>> The other the other thing, Steve, is how quickly that exclusivity with open AI kind of these relationships are splintering in real time.
>> Yeah, that's exactly right. So we've been watching this like it's like the longest divorce ever ever, right, Carl? watching uh OpenAI and Microsoft slowly drift further and further apart, becoming less and less dependent on it. Uh and to your point, yes, when they had that new agreement just a few weeks ago, uh OpenAI no longer has to go to Microsoft for the right of first refusal uh to get into Azure. We've of course seen them cutting deals with so many others. And now Microsoft is playing the other side of that. Uh pretty soon after that opening eye deal, boy, they go right after Enthropic uh lock down some uh revenue from that company. And by the way, Anthropic's playing around too. They, you know, they just had a big data center open up with Amazon and AWS and and that is part, you know, part of their cloud provider too. Obviously, Amazon is a big investor uh at Google as well in anthropic guys.
>> Yeah. I mean, Steve, also Anthropic, you know, we think of as being one of the leaders in the enterprise versus chatbt more consumer. I, you know, I don't know how you're viewing this or obviously the additional capital what that will mean, but it certainly does seem to heighten the competition at the very least between these two leading large language models.
>> Yeah, that and that's exactly right. And look, OpenAI is a Microsoft competitor, David. I talked to CTO's all the time. I was talking to one who was telling me this last week and saying, "We're going with OpenAI because
>> let's hear from the horse's mouth. All three of them announcing this partnership folks uh just posted Super excited to be here with Dario and Jensen. What both of you are doing, Nvidia at the silicon layer and anthropic at the cognition layer is shaping what every developer and every organization will be able to build on going forward. On our side, we have been scaling Nvidia across this funible Azure fleet at the speed of light, something that Jensen's been talking to me about for multiple years now. And we're continuing to set pace, including with the AI superactory we announced just last week. And we've been deepening our partnership with Anthropic as well, incorporating their models across the entire co-pilot family. And today I'm excited to share that we're taking another step. Uh we're increasingly going to be customers of each other. We will use Anthropic models. They will use our infrastructure and we'll go to market together to help our customers realize the value of AI. Uh this announcement encompasses four key things. First, customers of Microsoft Foundry will be able to access Anthropics cloud models. Second, we're continuing access for cloud across our co-pilot family. Third, Anthropic is committing to Azure capacity. And finally, Nvidia and Anthropic are also establishing a partnership to support Anthropic's future growth. For us, this is all about deepening our commitment to bringing the best infrastructure, model choice, and applications to our customers. And of course, this all builds on the partnership we have with OpenAI, which remains a critical partner for Microsoft and OpenAI and our customers and provides more innovation and choice. With that, Dario, why don't you tell us a little more about the partnership, what this partnership means to Anthropic?
>> Yes. In terms of Microsoft, you know, I think as you mentioned Satcha, you know, both of us believe in choice and you know, we're excited to bring our models as a choice to uh uh to to to Microsoft Azure and Enthropic will be the you know, will be the first model that is available on you know, the three all three of the biggest clouds. Um second, uh you know, Microsoft has a reputation as a strong um uh as a strong enterprise company and Enthropic does it really well. So we have the opportunity to work together, to go to market together and to provide intelligence to the world together. And you know, we're we're excited to kind of accelerate the diffus
>> grid N9 lowest level we've had in the past couple months of this technology as the technology continues continues to improve. Um and finally, you know, we're very excited to get uh to get additional capacity um that you know, we can use both trainer models to support Microsoft firstparty products and to sell together. And that brings me to the NVIDIA part of it. Um we are very excited to to add you know substantial support and substantial use of Nvidia's accelerators for use by entropic. You know Nvidia has led the way in this field in many ways has helped make the you know this entire AI boom possible. We think this is going to be the beginning just the beginning of a very long partnership. Um we're excited to work together to co-optimize models models together starting to with Blackwell and then moving on to Ver Rubin. We're excited to announce up to a gigawatt of capacity and that's just for now. That's just where we're starting. Um and so you know we're very excited to continue that to continue the co-op optimization to further build out Nvidia's already incredible ecosystem.
>> That's fantastic. Well said Dario. And one of our core beliefs is that you can't make progress just in one layer of the stack. U you have to advance every layer silicon systems models applications while optimizing effectively for all the things that customers care about right cogs latency performance. And one of the things that uh we're also establishing today is this new partnership as you described between Nvidia and Anthropic. So Jensen, maybe you should talk a little bit about sort of what you all are excited about.
>> Thanks AIA. You know, Nvidia's DNA is to build the most advanced computing systems in the world and to accelerate the most challenging workloads in the world on the most important platforms in the world. And this conference call right here embodies that very thing. This is a dream come true for us. You know, we've admired the work of Anthropic and Daario for a long time and this is the first time we are going to deeply partner with Anthropic to accelerate Claude. I can't wait to go accelerate Claude. the work that Anthropic has done uh the seinal work in AI safety uh the advances of cloud code uh the engineers of Nvidia love cloud code uh the fact that you can go and and literally refactor your code for you I mean it's pretty an amazing thing and and uh the the work on MCP the model context protocol has completely revolutionized the agentic AI landscape and so the contributions of Anthropic, the advanced research that is done there, the incredible researchers, uh the incredible uh infrastructure team that works at Anthropic that makes it possible for you to scale up to what you have already done. Uh it's really quite quite phenomenal and now your business is on a rocket ship. It's just scaling so incredibly. And so I can't wait to go accelerate Claude and Grace Blackwell with MVLink. I'm really really hoping for an order of magnitude speed up and that's going to help you scale even faster, drive down token economics and really make it possible uh for us to spread AI everywhere and so I'm really really super excited about that. Now the work that we've done with Microsoft over the years Satia is broad and deep. I mean it's incredible all the things that we do. uh the the work that we've done to left shift shift left all of our engineering so that at the moment we have new technology it appears on Azure uh notice the scale that we've now already achieved with Grace Blackwell 200 and 300 um the number of systems that are already out there helping researchers pioneer the next frontier in AI really fantastic work there but we do everything from data processing to search to image recognition to fraud detection to right all kinds of stuff that we're doing from cloud classical computing to classical ML to generative AI to agentic AI. The work that we're doing just spans the entire range of technology. But what's really really incredible is of course Microsoft has the world's best enterprise go to market. This is the next giant frontier enterprise and industrial AI. That's where as you know the vast majority of the world's economics economy is and in order for us to get to every single enterprise that enterprise go to market takes decades to build up. It is, you know, it's not one of those things that just because you put it on the cloud, it's going to be you're going to be able to serve the world's enterprise. The enterprise go to market is very complicated. And this is where the two of us have such great harmony because NVS computing is in every enterprise and we're in every enterprise in every single country. Now, this partnership of the three of us, we'll be able to bring AI, bring cloud to every enterprise, to every industry around the world. And so, this is a really exciting time.
>> I'll close with this. As an industry, we really need to move beyond any type of zero sum narrative or winner take all hype. What's required now is the hard work of building broad durable capabilities together so that this technology can deliver real tangible local success for every country, every sector and every customer. The opportunity is simply too big to approach any other way. Jensen and Dario, any last thoughts on this? I'm just excited to, you know, take a large number of chips and and, you know, use it to serve our mutual enterprise customers together to make the smartest models, the models that run the fastest for the lowest possible cost.
>> Jensen, you know, I I think the world is just barely realizing where we are in the AI journey. You know, we're seeing uh three scaling laws happening at the same time. Pre-training is scaling incredibly well still. Post-training, the more compute you give it, the smarter the AI. And then of course inference time scaling, test time scaling, you know, the more the AI thinks, the higher the quality of answer. And so we we're now at a point with AI where it is very clear that the more compute we give it, the more cost-effective compute we give it, the more the smarter the tokens, the smarter the AI is going to be. And the smarter the AI, the more adoption both in the new applications that integrate these AI APIs and the more frequently how how more frequently you use it. And so the quality of these AI models now have really reached an inflection point. And so we've got these two simultaneous exponentially increasing compute demand. And uh I guess the thing that's really great is you know they're going to need a lot more Azure compute resources and they're going to need a lot more GPUs and and uh we're just delighted to partner with you Dario to to bring AI to the world.
>> Absolutely.
>> Now thank you so much Dario and Jensen. I'm really looking forward to everything that we're going to build together and more importantly how customers can benefit from all this innovation and really thrive with their business and their outcomes. So, thank you all for joining today.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. What do we think, guys? What do we think? That was Jensen, Daario, and um Nadella basically saying, "Hey, we need to continue investing at the level that we're investing at and we need to keep on putting in more comput." I mean, the thing that Jensen said at the end, I think is probably the most important, which is that in his perspective, whether you agree with him or not, we are at the very early stages of what AI can become. By the way, Bitcoin actually making a nice move right here, up 2.7%. If that's the case, there's going to need to be circular financing. There's going to need to be vendor financing. There's going to need to be debt financing. There's going to need to be all that stuff to engage in this buildout. And investors either will believe in that buildout or not. But the buildout's happening and regardless of if they believe in it or not, the impact of it over the next coming years is what a lot of the more uh AI focused tech CEOs are worried about. And I don't think they're too worried about the the short-term implications of this stuff. AMD right here down 5%. You're getting a little bit of a bounce on Nvidia 179 to 182. Little bit of a move right there. Uh why SoFi falling so hard? I really think SoFi is just collateral damage. Like a lot of stock, a lot of stocks, you know, when the S&P goes down 1%. A ton of names are going to get hit with it. S&P trying to get a bit of a bounce from 656 to 659. It's kind of crazy. They dude, if they put out that video on the intraday bottom of today, that would have been hilarious. Like, shout out to the intern who pressed post on that video. He was probably trading in video options. He was like, you know what? I'm gonna I'm gonna just take matters into my own hand and pump this thing my damn self. And then they posted the video. Ethereum, that's up a little bit as well. 3112. Uh IN 3% move right there. Wow. Did that just happen? That literally just happened. That candle on Iran. 47 to 4875. What about Nebius? Nebius getting some green but not fully green yet. Uh BMR are we touching 32? We are 3170. So bouncing from 25 and then Nvidia trying to get back up to 185. I mean again Jensen gives us a good quarter tomorrow. You've got this deal that's now being digested into the ecosystem. that could be your positive tailwind as well along with the idea of rate cuts becoming more prominent. Like I really hate to keep saying it's about the rate cut, but from all the research I've done really since starting on Saturday when I started like diving deep into what could have changed in the market over the past couple weeks comes down to the cuts. The probabilities of the cuts going down really shifted a lot of people to thinking the Fed is not the like we hiked in 22. If the Fed doesn't cut in 22, at least until May when JPAL steps down, then the first six months could be the same as hiking, even if they're not cutting, which I can't fathom that they would not cut for six months. Um, but the impact could be the same. And I think the market's kind of interpreting more restrictive policy as uh detrimental to the market. And then it's kind of like you're fighting if the Fed says they're not going to cut and you're buying stocks, you're fighting the Fed because the Fed is telling you we're going to be restrictive. Stocks historically don't do well in a restrictive environment. So one of the reasons they were doing so well in October and August and September is because well, everyone felt the Fed was guaranteed to cut. So the easing cycle was laid out. I mean even the Fed said they're going to stop QT soon. So stopping QT rate cuts, all of that is a conducive environment. soon as you get rid of the rate cuts part of that equation, you start fighting the Fed and I think that's what got the market to be a little bit afraid. Yeah, in 2022 tech was not growing as well. That's a great point. In 2026, uh that's what Mike Wilson from Morgan Stanley, he's like, "Dude, I think everyone's underestimating the earnings growth. Next year it's going to be seven or sorry, um 10 to 12% and this year was closer to 17%." So when you have double digit earnings growth like that four or five years in a row at this point, we have not seen that in decades. And that that is, you know, due to some type of macro catalyst, which could be AI. I mean, that it likely is the reason for why we're seeing that growth. Um, Fubo's up 4%. Not sure why. Oaklo is also green. There was no story in 2022. I agree. The only story was over bloated companies that hired too much pounder right there at 167. BMR getting a move right here. But I mean the move is because Ethereum is stable at this point. I think Ethereum being stable is the most bullish thing and just stop I think for for cryptos like they don't have to go up. They just have to stop the bleeding. I think that's at least my concern is like, hey, can they at least hold these levels and not, you know, make new? I mean, Ethereum was at 2950 yesterday. Bitcoin was at 89,000. So, being able to stay above these levels, I think, would be relatively bullish. Meta bottomed at least today so far at 583. It's at 587. Could easily get back there, but it did hit those levels. It's a dead cat bounce for crypto. Yeah, that's what I'm hoping it's not. So, I don't think anyone's out of the woods on crypto yet, but we need at least a few more days to see if it is a dead cat. Um, Cactus says it's like saying the internet was a scam because everyone had to buy routers, fibers, needed satellites, and every website depended on someone else's hardware to even load. That's a fair point. I mean, the internet obviously wasn't a scam just because everyone needed each other's services. So, if you're going to say AI is a circular bubble because everyone needs each other's services, like that's not necessarily full-on scam. Again, the reason we looked at this video yesterday, the reason the dot bubble crashed um is because of massive levels of dark fiber that were not that were overbuilt, was not needed. So the infrastructure part of the internet buildout was too much. In AI, every GPU is being used as fast as it can possibly be used. And so just even even if there's a circular component to the AI being to the GPU is being used back and forth and the compute going back and forth, which is, you know, the nature of any type of business, there's some circularity to it. Doesn't necessarily mean it's a bubble. Let's get a little bit more coverage on this Nvidia thing and then we'll keep going from there.
>> They move faster. they were able to put out enterprise products and and things faster and better than Microsoft can. They use the Atlas browser as a really good example of that, saying, you know, we would love to have a Microsoft version of an AI browser, but they can't do it yet because they sort of have to wait on OpenAI in in order to develop it for the Microsoft customer. So, seeing Microsoft kind of spread the wealth, so to speak, work with other models, it could perhaps help them move faster. And again, David, I'm out here at this Ignite conference because I'm expecting in a couple hours time uh when Judson Although gives his keynote to kind of detail how these um different language models are going to play into the co-pilot product uh which is what uh the consumerf facing side of AI for for Microsoft. We know the cloud business is doing quite well, but we still haven't seen uh quite the fire and energy uh on the consumerf facing side yet. Wait, so doesn't but doesn't Anthropic and Microsoft compete for that enterprise business?
>> They do. Yeah, they're all they're all frenemies, Sarah, that everyone
>> and they're all backing each other.
>> Exactly. And now
>> and that's the that's the concern with the circular part, right? If one if one piece here doesn't live up to expectations or has a problem, it brings them all brings them all down, I guess.
>> Exactly. And it also helps Microsoft spread the risk because I mean so many of these deals that we've been talking about Sarah over the last I don't know couple months since the summer. Uh so many of it has OpenAI at the center. I always say like OpenAI is sort of like this Jenga piece. It's that one you kind of wiggle it. It's firm but it doesn't quite move as you want it. And if you move it too much everything's going to come collapsing down. Microsoft is super exposed to that. We see it show up in their earnings report when there are losses over there at OpenAI and so forth. So we kind of see Microsoft spreading the risk by investing in Enthropic and letting all these other competitors in. Even though yes, on the consumerf facing side, they're all competing with each other, but on the cloud side, Anthropic needs a partner like Microsoft needs a partner uh like Nvidia to power all of this stuff
>> and and to get the funding. Dude, again, like if there's that much level of demand for them to be able to sign these types of multi-tens of billions of dollars of deals for compute, it it really begs the question, why is it a bubble? Like a bubble comes from artificial demand that's not real. And then you have artificial expectations, artificial valuations that are all based on something that's fake. Aka all the dark fiber we built out in 2000 based on telecommunications. I mean, it seems like Anthropic is trying to get as much comput as possible. Same thing with OpenAI. There's questions on where that money is coming from. And sure, those are real questions, but not that they don't need the compute, the compute. And I mean, if they need the compute, then they're obviously going to be able to service and monetize that compute in whatever ways they they they choose to monetize, but it's almost weird to say that it's they don't have that demand. Feels like the demand is obviously there. Question is, can they get these deals to finance all that demand?
>> And they're and they're getting Yeah. And they're getting more funding because they're the star.
>> And do the math here. They're going to spend 30.
>> Yeah. They're going to spend 30 billion and potentially get 15 billion back,
>> right? We don't know over what period of time they're committed to spending that 30.
>> We don't know that either. Yeah.
>> Committed to purchase 30 billion of Azure compute capacity.
>> Yeah. But it's over. I mean, it's not immediate. It's not like a one conceivably not in one year.
>> And they're getting an investment up to five billion from Microsoft, 10 billion from Nvidia, right?
>> Yes. The these deals are just getting more creative. Thank you. They sure are.
>> Steve Kovac, huge news.
>> All right. Market kind of likes it, kind of doesn't. S&P trying to break 660. The bleeding is kind of stopping as per what it was 10 minutes ago. Nvidia stopped out at 179, now at 182. Um, but we're not getting a full-on reversal. Cloudflare says no evidence that the outage was the result of an attack or malicious activity. Cloudflare root cause of the outage was automatically generated configuration file for managing threat traffic. Okay, so maybe not a cyber attack that affected Cloudfare. Bit mine up 4.4% on the day. That one getting somewhat of relief from yesterday. Ethereum right there 3100. SoFi kind of close to going green. I mean definitely still red but not as red as it was. And then Nvidia right there 182. Robin, holding on to 114. Whimo's in five new cities, dude. Whimo is expanding quick. Uh, Terowolf, Cipher, all those are green. Whimo is in Miami, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, and Orlando. Miami, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, and Orlando. Okay. Shout out to Whimo. Google continues to execute. Disney right there, that's up 1%. The GooGs at 281. Chris Camilillo just said, "A new halfbaked in narrative pops up almost every day to sell off the AI sector. Today, it's the idea that imminent release of what looks like a breakthrough Gemini 3.0 model trained on Google TPUs somehow threatens Nvidia and traditional AI infrastructure span, even dragging down Google itself. If you've gotten long-term conviction in AI, you should be welcoming these dips. Camilo has been pretty damn bullish on AI for the past couple years now, and he thinks this is going to be the greatest opportunity for investors uh over the next decade. And so he thinks this is a buy the dip. Oh wow, what did Sundar just tweeted? Gemini with a bunch of eyes. Oh, that's three. Three eyes. Gemini 3.0. There you go. I don't know if that's coming out today, but you do have the three eyes tweets on Gemini. Took my first Whimo this week. Yeah, we took it in uh San Francisco a couple months ago. I mean, I've started to see more videos of them going on the highways or the freeways in California. So, you're starting to see a lot more of that. as well. Um, Google right here is still slightly down on the day, down about 1%, 28,170. Now, Gemini 3.0, I mean, again, from some of the rumors that I've been just reading about it, it is going to be one of the best models ever. I mean, that could be enough of an argument as well to get people to be again more excited about AI. Just the idea that these models are getting so good. I mean, one of the easiest ways to convince people it's not a bubble is for the product of the quote unquote bubble that people are discussing, aka the models, continue to change people's lives and continue to prove to people that like this is stuff that no one's going to live without over the coming years. 595 on the cues, that's down 1.4. So, a a model update along with this anthropic news definitely could be a potential bullcase for today. This is Centaur's version of buy the dip. Yeah, this might be this might be his version right here. Uh Nick says, "I saw a Whimo car with a driver scanning NYC this weekend." Yeah, they're getting ready to map out the uh the city in New York. UNH, is that one still red? UNH312, that's down 2.6. Micro Strategy getting a little bit of relief today because of Bitcoin. Micro Strategy 205. SoFi 2016. Nvidia gets rejected at 182. I think the streets need some earnings. We need some earnings. Um Hoodie 113, AMD 227, Bitcoin 925, Amazon 224. How long will each data center remain viable? Communities already revoling against increased electrical cost and water ability. Where's the energy going to come from? It's a good question. Uh, one thing that I was reading last night is that and again this this goes back against the the sort of bubble narrative is like the the reason more data centers haven't been built and the reason why you don't have more and more AI products and services is because of a power glut, not a chip glut. And I think um Nadella said them his himself a couple weeks ago on the Brad Gner podcast. I think that means that we need new forms of energy or we need new forms of financing and building out the energy infrastructure. I do not think that means it's a bubble. I mean if anything that is a classic problem of we have way too much demand, not enough supply. In what world is that bad? Like if we had way too much supply and we overbuilt and not no one's using any of this AI stuff and we don't need all this compute that feels like a way worse situation than hey like we are trying that only bolsters the argument that GPUs are being used as quick as you can build a data center to plug them into which is the bullcase for Iran and cipher and nebus etc. So I mean yes there is a problem with power 100%. The issue is though, I think that's actually rather bullish because I think that's a problem that's solvable. That's probably why Oaklo continues to get its valuation because there's such a big problem in glut for power that even a company with no revenue, if they have the potential to help with nuclear energy, you know, they get a $20 billion valuation, which doesn't mean the valuation is justified, but it does give a little bit of context to why some of these names are getting bit up because energy is the issue. But I think that proves the demand piece. Um, let's take a look at the heat map here. See if we've got anything else that's trading. The the Microsoft chief business officer is going to be on today as well explaining this entire new deal that they just launched with Anthropic. So, I think we'll get a little bit more details on that as well. Yeah, heat map still pretty much the same. Nothing really changed too much. at least from yesterday. Uh let's get a little bit more coverage on this Nvidia stuff and then we'll keep going from there.
>> All the different things they want to via Anthropic for their enterprise. But yeah, they're I mean it's 30 billion there that they're committing to. The money's coming in from Nvidia and Microsoft which will be used by Anthropic to pay Microsoft which will buy chips, GPUs from Nvidia. Um, you know, it's just interesting to watch anthropic in particular and then these continued questions about whether or not all of these different commitments will be met by the various companies that have committed to them over time because so much of it Sarah will depend on the revenues eventually even though they're growing enormously. Don't want to take away from that. Will they ever be at the level
>> Well, they're investing more enormously is the thing and and they're both private companies, Anthropic and Open AI, but increasingly tied to these public companies in terms of their investments and their businesses. I mean, it does really get back to that question that Brad Gersonner asked Sam Wolman, which is you're investing 1.4 trillion and we only have 13 billion in revenues. Now, we know it's 20 billion run right now and he wants to get up to 100 billion in 2027. Fine. Um, but when they'll be profitable, how fast they can grow, and
>> oh, we got some breaking news on Google again. Uh, looks like their investment in Aptronic is potentially raising new money. Appronic is their robotics investment. Wow. Appronic is in advance talks to secure a new funding round of at least 400 million led by investing existing investor B capital Capital potentially reaching a 5 billion pre- money valuation. This follows a previous series A round in February 2025 where the Austin based humanoid robotics company raised 350 million co-led by Google. I think that was at a 1.5 billion valuation. Electronic is also in a strategic partnership with Google DeepMind to integrate advanced AI models into Gemini Robotics 1.5. Wow. I mean, the fact that Abtronic is getting ready to basically forex their valuation in less than five months. I mean, either it means they got a bunch of different commercial customers where investors are ready to give them more money. It means that the the progress on the tech is continuing to reach scale. Again, Google put in a decent chunk of capital into these guys as well. They're working very intimately with Deep Mind. So, that's just another tool for Google to go after. And again, you know, we don't talk that much about the human robotics because they've not really hit scale yet, but I mean, those robots are going to need millions and millions of GPUs, not only on the training, but on the inference level for them to be effective. And I think that's why Google's also investing so deeply in their TPUs because they know if they're going to be selling, you know, I I think eventually Google's just going to buy outronic and I feel like that'd be the most logical thing to do and just just like, you know, they ultimately took control of Whimo. Uh so if they start competing with Tesla for Optimus and start selling, you know, millions and millions of robots, they're going to need to be able to train them in a pretty effective way. Wow. Five billion, dude. They were at 1.5 billion four months ago. C tech conference just at the end of October. He showed $500 billion in cumulative chip orders stretching through the end of next year on a slide. The stock hit $212 the next day on October 29th, an all-time high. And it's been down 10% ever since. Options traders are now pricing in at least a 6% swing post earnings, the biggest in over a year. But analysts really think the stock could be flat even on a beat because the good news already came out. And I have to point out too, I was just looking at a note, investor appetite has also shifted. City's recent client sentiment check shows that Nvidia is quote less popular than AMD and Broadcom given EPS growth for both uh AMD and Broadcom being a little bit higher than a uh Nvidia. And to just go back to that October conference, it was very specific for Nvidia. Nvidia CEO broke from the company's typical one quarter at a time guidance. and companies typically only provide one quarter at a time guidance and provided visibility actually throughout the all of next year. He essentially gave investors the headline before earnings even happened. And there's another dynamic at play. If Nvidia beats, you know, if it's beyond $2 billion, it could amplify concerns that AI spending has gotten excessive and unfundable. Credit markets are already anxious about these massive data center buildouts. But if it's just a modest beat, you know, just two billion on the dot, investors might read that as growth normalizing faster than expected. So Wednesday's Wednesday's report really comes uh becomes more about validating what Nvidia CEO already said than revealing anything new. The stock may have peaked right after GTC in October for a reason because investors already got the news and now they're just checking the map. And one more point guys, you were talking about the circularity of that new deal with Anthropic. David Faber, you were spot on in regards to the timeline that is missing. You have Nvidia investing in these firms, but these firms are not necessarily buying all the promised compute at the moment because they need the revenues to do so. So the circularity almost becomes a demicircle because we have to wait until they actually can start affording to to build out these massive data infrastructures. And so I feel like that's a a really important point because Nvidia doesn't always get the cash flow coming back to them immediately in the next year or so.
>> Here they're speaking specifically about uh Grace Blackwell and Vera Rubin systems to for that.
>> You know that is a good point that she made. We we got the big banger of an update at GTC when Jensen said 500 billion in five quarters and that's when you saw the stock pump to like 212. to be honest, if he ended up saying something like that on earnings and didn't say that at GTC. I mean, who knows if the S&P would have even pumped to all-time highs or if Nvidia would have got that large. I mean, it but but this is a stock market. When you say something, it immediately gets priced in and then, you know, a new piece of news is not necessarily going to impact that if it doesn't live up to the previous expectations. So Jensen already said, "Hey, you know, we have a massive opportunity, 120 billion more domestically, excluding China against analyst expectations." That's why Nvidia got a ton of $300 upgrades after GTC. And maybe the market is just now trying to figure out if they can live up to that versus being excited about that. But if he did say that like tomorrow on earnings, uh, you know, I think that immediately would, but maybe Nvidia would have never got to 200. Maybe Nvidia would have been chilling between 170 and 185 for the past couple weeks, which also wouldn't have created the sort of annoying price action that people are upset about. If you bought in the 200s and then it, you know, is down to 180. But if the market was able to take it to 200 based on that assessment of 500 billion in five quarters and Jensen lives up to that, then theoretically the market should be able to take him back there. But tomorrow is going to be the most important. Mike Johnson, is he live? Uh, I think he is. He's probably talking about the Epstein stuff, was he? Yeah. Johnson calls Epstein files release vote a political show vote. Okay. I think Johnson is on the side of telling people in the House to not vote on it. Granted, Trump said he's okay with people voting for it, so I don't think I don't think Johnson's going to dissuade them. Um, let me see if I can get a little bit of coverage on this. All right, here's Johnson from earlier right there with their constituents at home in their in their districts in their their counties and their parishes. in our case in Louisiana working with their constituents and helping them navigate the consequences of the Democrats pointless political games in the shutdown. Um they they uh they did some really important work and we are ready and eager now to get back to the legislative session work the other side of this job so that we can deliver on our promises to the American people. The Republican party has been doing this and evils and and how do we know that? Because the Democrats had every one of the Epstein files in their possession for the four long years of the Biden administration. The Biden Department of Justice had the files the entire time and not a single one of the people who were so loud and animated right now. They never said anything about it for all those four years. None of them held press conferences. None of them demanded the release of the documents. And under Biden's DOJ, when they when they prosecuted uh just Epstein and Gelain Maxwell, not a single one of these Democrats or any of the proponents of the discharge ever made any noise about that at all. So, it's fair for the American people to ask the question, why now? Why suddenly are they so so interested? They have such an urg. It's kind of the the same argument that Trump has been making that they could have released it for a while. I think regardless of the argument, there likely will be a vote that goes in the positive to release the files and the American people will finally get to know hopefully if it's not fully redacted uh what happened. And that vote happens tonight folks. So we will know by tonight if that gets a yes or no. And then I think it gets released as early as next week if it's officially voted for. Meta right there. 587, S&P 500, 657. S&P very close to lows of days. That Nvidia deal pumped us up to 660 for a couple of minutes and then we came back right down 658. Meet Kevin is full-on bearish. Well, Meet Kevin's been bearish for like three years though, right? Like Oh, Meet Kevin must be loving this right now. He must be loving all of this. choppiness. All right, let me ask a question in the chat. Let's do this. Let's get some sentiment in the chat. Are you going bearish? Yes or no? What do I mean by bearish? I guess uh are you getting out of the markets? Pretty simple. Or at least downsizing a sizable amount of risk exposure to the markets. I don't think selling calls is bearish. I don't think buying puts is bearish. I think if you're legit saying, "I'm taking my money out of the game because I don't want to play the game anymore." That to me is more bearish. Hedging back and forth is not necessarily bearish. But because I don't think me Kevin's been invested for three years from my understanding. I like his ETF shut down a year ago. Like he's been kind of he's not really been in the markets like that. 73% say no. 27% say yes. and put it where? Under my bed. Look, I mean, that's my perspective as well, dude. I I just don't think this is the time to get super pessimistic and scared. I just don't think anything fundamental on a lot of these names have changed. Do they deserve the premiums they were getting, you know, a couple months ago? No. But I think we all knew Oaklo didn't deserve to be 193. And if you bought Oaklow at 140 on the dip from 193, there's not much to say because at some point you have to do some fundamental analysis on a company and ask yourself, does this make any sense? But if you bought uh SoFi at 28 down from 32, like yeah, Sofi is up a lot for the year and 28 is definitely a higher price than 15. But does that mean you're screwed? Like if you bought Okal at 170 from a dip on 193, I don't think so. And I don't think anything has changed in SoFi's story. So getting out of the markets really depends on this broader question of are we entering in 2022? Are we entering in the the the the very top of the bubble? Are we or do we already top and are we on the the hill and are we starting to slide down? Like is that really happening right here? I just don't like SoFi is going to have an amazing earnings next quarter. Amazon's going to put up amazing numbers. Netflix is going to put up amazing numbers. AMD just said they're going to grow 35% for the next five years. Robin Hood, although they're going to lose some crypto volumes, are going to put up some pretty good numbers. And Robin Hood now has to do over a billion in revenue every quarter. They're not going to be getting all the benefits of like massive massive trading volumes potentially, at least over the past couple weeks. But there's a lot of verticals that they're attacking, including prediction markets, which just crossed a million customers they announced yesterday. Banking, credit card, I mean, a lot of different things. AI services that are rolling out in January. So stories on some of these names and how they execute might be changing, but their core execution to me is not changing. Tesla, yes, they don't have the best earnings growth, but the earnings growth right now is not really the story for Tesla. And so the question is, does Tesla go back to the Tim Waltz bottom at 200? You know, like like is is is is it that much worse today than it was back in March, especially with the progress they made on robotics and FSD? Is Palenter not going to grow above 50% which like no I think they're probably they just grew 63%. I think they're probably going to hold that 50% level. Google is going to continue to just dominate at every layer. Google has to go back to what 150. Like what are we talking about? I don't know. It doesn't seem like it makes a ton of sense. See like that's going to gonna happen.
>> Azie, thanks for the super chat. S&P 7000. May I meet you? Yes, exactly. That's all. So, we all need to be asking the S&P, but like realistically like like tell me a stock that deserves to completely get cut by 70 80% like we saw in 2022 based on some narrative that it's fun. Don't don't give me quantum. Don't give me nuclear. Don't give me the names that are hyped up on like no earnings like because those could go to zero and they don't affect the market. Like they're not having an impact. But like a Dell, does Dell deserve to go down to $50? Like I don't know. I don't think that's the case. Core we've already got chopped in half. Big Bear AI is not growing. So like, and it's a $2 billion company. That does not affect the stock market. I don't know. I don't think Palanteer deserves to go to $50. Like I just I'm sorry. I don't think that we're going to have a disagreement there, but I think there, you know, people forget all the bullish arguments once they see the price action go down. I don't think it deserves to be stuck at 50. And if it ever goes back to 50 again, I mean, I do think there would be a decent amount of people that get excited to finally get exposure to it. ARM right there down 3%, Coreeave down 2.8, Trump Media, but yeah, see that that name doesn't affect the market. I mean, I'm talking about real names that matter, right? DJT like this thing $3 billion company doesn't matter. But what Amazon has to go back to 150 like it was during liberation day after growing AWS 20% year-over-year. Nebas I mean dude the more I study Nebas the more I just think this valuation is stupid. Like I genuinely think the valuation is dumb right here. But does Nebius need to go back to 50 and erase the entire Microsoft deal? It's already erased a good chunk of it. Oh wow. CNBC saying anthropic valued at 350 billion after this Microsoft Nvidia deal. Weren't they just at 170 billion a month ago? Wow. That is I mean they definitely need a new valuation, right? Because they're investing in them. I guess they're giving them a $350 billion valuation. Here's the coverage on this
>> familiar. Microsoft and Nvidia are committing to invest up to five billion and 10 billion respectively into the AI startup at a revised valuation of $350 billion. That is a sharp uh you know bounce upward from the $183 billion funding round it just closed, guys.
>> Well, that's big news. So, so the so the valuation jumps to 350 on this annuity. That was the answer to your question.
>> It was wow. Uh that is big news. I mean now that's approaching mech. That's I mean we're talking half a half a trillion in open AI based on where employees recently sold stock. They go from 183 billion to 350 billion on this new investment from Nvidia and Microsoft is what you're saying. So basically a double
>> precisely putting it within striking range of uh OpenAI's 500 500 billion valuation. And frankly they need it. Last week, they just signed a deal for $50 billion to do first party compute, building their own infrastructure in Texas and New York. That's on top of the tens of billions that they just committed to Google Cloud. They've got deals with uh with AWS and now we're adding 30 billion to Microsoft Azure. And keep in mind, their run rate for the year is around 7 billion, and they're not profitable yet,
>> right? 7 billion is where their run rate is on on revenues versus the 20 billion that we heard from Sam Alman at Open AAI. But there were reports that it would be profitable faster.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. Because they I guess they're doing enterprise work that may have a higher margin. You know,
>> that's exactly it. And the Wall Street Journal saw internal documents that indicated that they would flip profitable by 2028, a couple years ahead of OpenAI.
>> Kind of interesting given Emod's appearance on 60 Minutes on Sunday. Now again, this is why I think you have problems with sentiment in the AI trade for the market because anthropic you got people just saying they don't deserve a $350 billion valuation. Now granted, Nvidia and Microsoft think that they do deserve to get that valuation and that obviously helps Nvidia and Microsoft theoretically as they invest in the company. And Enthropic obviously wants the higher valuation because Enthropic, you know, if they're going to take a bunch of this diluted capital from the hyperscalers, they don't want it to dilute them that much. So the only way to fix that is to to to get a higher valuation. Um the the broader question becomes, can they live up to that valuation? But having said that, to to give the bears credit here, this is where you get concerns around blowing more air into a hypothetical bubble. If Anthropic doesn't deserve to be worth 350 billion, now granted, if OpenAI is worth 500 billion, I do think if we're just comparing it to OpenAI, I do think Anthropic deserves 350 billion because they're growing faster than OpenAI in many context. They're going faster in the enterprise business than OpenAI. uh and one could argue for coding anthropic is the deacto model that you know every enterprise is really starting to adopt over GPT. So you know does it deserve to be worth 350? I don't know. But ultimately if we think that Enthropic and Open are multi- trillion dollar companies one day it makes sense why Nvidia or Microsoft are okay investing at these levels. But it continues to create fear that those valuations aren't real. 65778 on the S&P 500 is that continues to go down. Uh Boombots, I'm not sure what's going on with your Open Door puts. Uh you're saying that every brokerage has shut off the chain. There's no volume completely screwed. Uh, Open Door had something very creative with their warrant structure that I do not know enough about because I did not buy Open Door stock. But if you're not able to sell or navigate your shares or puts of Open Door, it probably has to do with like the fine print of the warrants that they put out. And if your brokers are telling you it has to do with the warrants, then I think you would have to read into that. That's weird though. You're not able to buy or sell any puts on Open Door. This definitely has to do with their warrant thing. It was complic dude. It's like they have like a strike. It's almost like a call option, but there's like a weird strike price. Yeah, there's no options on Open Door. Wow. On Robin Hood, too. There's no option. Are you guys seeing that on the other uh the other brokerages? There's no options available on Open Door. Yeah, this has to do with the the with the warrant structure. I mean, the the option chain just can't be taken down for no reason. That's weird, dude. No options on open for other people as well. Ticker change to open one. Really? Okay. I'm not seeing that on Hood. It's a It's a open specific thing because every other company has options. I mean, it's not like there's other names that I can't see options available for. This has to do with their dividend warrant thing that they put out a while ago. It got split. Yeah, dude. I didn't read through their AK when they put that [ __ ] out. I I just it was a fancy way of of of uh generating capital. And so I don't really invest in open door, but there were people from my understanding that were pretty excited about the new warrant structure they put through. From my understanding, it was just another way to raise capital, but it might not be the easiest thing to navigate right here. Meta, are we getting a little bit of juice? Meta 586 on Meta. No open options on IBKR also. Yeah, there's definitely something internal going on with their warrant structure. And if people don't know about it, that means Open Door didn't explain it correctly or people obviously didn't read the fine print. But that is very rare for that to get shut down immediately. Um, okay. Let's see what other headlines we have. It is 11:00 a.m. I'm going to have to leave in like the next five minutes, guys. actually do have a dentist appointment today. I know all the jokes are going to start, but I I legit You remember when I had a dentist appointment during GTC and I canceled it that morning because I forgot Jensen was going to be live. Well, that got changed to today, November 18th at 11:45. So, they do have to leave in a couple minutes. But, let me see if there's any other headlines we have. BMR is holding on today. That one's a bit green. Uh labor department says US jobless benefit roles hit two-month high amid shutdown delay. All right. So you're getting a little bit more data on the shutdown stuff. We're probably going to be getting or the jobless law stuff we're probably going to be getting a lot more data over the coming days. S&P very close to lows of day. I mean that makes sense dude. US jobless benefits roles hit two-month high. Obviously we're seeing all these layoffs. That should increase the probability for a rate cut. Yeah, look at that. Rate cut probabilities are up. 51.5, up from 50 as soon as that headline comes out. Why? Because maybe the market's realizing that the Fed is going to have to cut these damn rates and not care about 2% versus 3% inflation. That is really the bull case for end of year. I I know I keep saying it, but if you get a bad labor market report, which is bad for earnings, but good for the Fed to realize they need to cut and they need to cut aggressively, that could be your pseudo saving grace in the midst of all this towards the end of the year. S&P new low of the day. So, you got rate cut probabilities going up, but there you go. Brand new low of the day for the S&P. Nvidia still didn't hit 179, but it's losing any of the pump it had from that Microsoft deal. Google 278 low of day. SoFi very close to losing 26. S&P just hit 655. Touched it for a second. 65597. Touched it for a second as it continues to go down. Google says Gemini 3 integrated into Google search. Okay, Google officially announcing Gemini 3 is live. Yep, that's live. Wow, that's all right. Gemini 3. Sundar continues to execute. That is up. All right, so we'll play with it later. We'll try to uh see how good the search is. But as of now, market's still getting hit. What's worse than 655? Oh my gosh. 650, man. Let's see if we We'll have Jason on today for some TA and he'll give us his thoughts on kind of some of the price action on this stuff on the close. But I mean, 650 is something the bulls got to defend at this point. All right, guys. I should get out of here. I got to drive for 30 minutes. Um, so I will be back at the close. Thankfully, Streamyard was working today. I was afraid it wasn't going to let me stream because of the the Cloudflare stuff, but we are good to go. Uh, we'll do word of the day. I'll be live on the close. We'll have Jason on. kind of get his perspective on TA uh element for what is going on and then we'll be back. Fed's bargain says inflation is above target but likely isn't to increase with consumer push back. Productivity improvements helping it slow. Job growth is down but labor supply is also growing. Yeah, I mean Barkin's making a logical argument. Inflation's above target but isn't likely to increase because we've got layoffs. We've got aggregate demand destruction. Aggregate demand destruction. If anyone's looked at shelter, by the way, you're seeing a really steep decline in rents across the entire country. That's also going to help CPI come down. And then you've got AI, which is naturally going to be a form of deflation. So, I really still think bulls have a very strong argument for endofear runs if we can get that rate cut and Nvidia delivers. But at least you have some of the Fed presidents that are starting to recognize this word of the day. It is app perception. The mind's ability to interpret new information by relating it to previous knowledge. Perception enriched by experience, insight, and self-awareness. App perception. His apt perception of human behavior let him read a room within seconds. Okay, there's no way I'm saying this word wrong. There's absolutely no way I'm saying this wrong. Let's make sure.
>> A perception. A perception.
>> Okay, so I said ah instead of a, but close enough. A perception. Why don't they just put a uh if they were going to make the a and uh sound? the mind's ability to interpret new information by relating it to previous knowledge. All right, that's what we got. I'll be back on the close. I'll be back on the close again. My teeth aren't hurting. This is just like a checkup because they they fixed it a month ago and I was supposed to get a checkup two weeks ago, but didn't. So, yeah, no pain or anything like that. It's just a normal checkup and I'll be back by the close and we'll keep going from there. All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Shmp pasta, thank you for the super chat. Second word of the day, superc califragilistic expialidocious. Your boy knows how to pronounce some words, bro. Your boy knows how to pronounce some words. I've heard that word many times. But um all right, so Trump's about to be live. I'll put the link right here in the chat. He's going to be live with the Prince of Saudi Arabia. Again, if I didn't have this appointment, I would definitely be streaming that. Unfortunately, I got to get out of here. I'll be back on the close. We'll see what this Prince of Saudi Arabia meeting turns into. Maybe some investments. Big headline for the day. Anthropic will be getting an investment at a $350 billion valuation from Nvidia and Microsoft. And we're going to see how the market ultimately interprets this. S&P bouncing off 655, but down 4% in a week, down almost one and a half% on the day. We're going to have to see if that one ends up bottoming out here. if it continues to get hit. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.