I'm Justin Reok. I am the Deputy CTO at DX. I'm involved in a lot of our research on developer experience and its relationship to productivity . And certainly over the past year, a lot of this research has focused on the impact of AI on the developer experience and basic aspects of productivity in an organization. We produce quarterly reports—our State of AI and Impact Reports— which analyze the vast amount of raw data we receive from our platform. Our research platform was created by the same experts who developed the DORA metrics, the SPACE framework, and the DevEx framework. Ultimately, it's a data collection platform that allows us to track a lot of different trends in the organization, including how we focus on the developer experience. Are we seeing results and improvements in the developer experience? And, of course, are we seeing results from how we use AI in our work processes? This session will be a little different from the one at 3:45 in the Executive Room—it focuses entirely on the raw data from our latest report. This is something like a preview. Here we look at more organizational trends, how our work processes are changing, based on the data we see. So, let's start with the main thing: let's see what we see in terms of the impact on development speed. If anyone is familiar with various speed metrics such as PR throughput and deployment rate, you hopefully understand the caveat that these metrics are not perfect. These are proxy metrics for understanding how work flows through the organization. They do not fully reflect value creation. We will also look at some metrics that are closer to this. But let's try to understand what this technology does in terms of pure speed in an organization. Here is our DORA metric for deployment frequency. Who is familiar with DORA metrics? Okay, most of you, great. This is one of four key metrics that attempts to understand the direction of product delivery velocity in the environment. And we see its stable growth. Although it is slowing down a bit . I think there are reasons for this. Part of the surge we saw in the beginning was due to people filing PRs and stuff like that more often . So we see growth in that aspect. This is just a small part of SDLC and PDLC, right? It's kind of like creating a change request and trying to deploy it to a production environment. This does not give us data on the level of kickbacks. This does not give us data on defect ratios. This does not give us data on the rate of failed changes. This just shows how much we are currently releasing into the work environment. But, you know, the data shows that this number is steadily increasing, okay? Um, the trends vary a bit depending on the region. Um, we see that there is an upward trend in North America . In Europe, we see a slight decline over the last quarter. Um, I think, you know, there are a few reasons for that. I mean, obviously the way work is done in these regions is different. The way we spend money on these technologies and evaluate token costs varies. The regulation is also different. But if you look at the overall trend, we still see improvements in this deployment rate, even across regions. We just see some differences in these regions. Here is an interesting point. Um, the perception of delivery speed. How much faster do engineers feel in what they deliver? It has grown a little. This number shows an increase of about four and a half percent. But given that it's been a full year, and all the investment and spending on AI, it's interesting that this perception hasn't grown a bit more, especially when you look back at studies like the famously flawed METR study. If you're familiar with it, they released an addendum in February, acknowledging that some of the data they collected was imperfect and they needed to review the results. But what's interesting is that among the 16 engineers in this small, flawed study, productivity dropped by 19% and perception increased by 20%. That is, there was a 40% gap between perceived productivity and actual productivity. But here, if you look at the big picture, everything remains quite stable. Okay, but what about the impact on quality and delivery? So, these are just our speed metrics, but what does this actually do to the quality of our software? The first metric we will look at is the DORA indicator for the rate of failed changes. I want to warn you, most of you are sitting right now, but the quality changes we have observed over this period are very unstable. Each line on this graph represents a separate company that participated in this part of the study, and it shows whether your error rate increased or decreased during the change. You want the numbers to go down. You want to be at the bottom of this graph. But what's interesting is that if you look at some of the top lines, you see a 2% growth, which doesn't sound too threatening until you realize that the industry standard is around 4%. This represents a potential 50% increase in defects compared to previous figures. Therefore, it is worth understanding which side of this graph you are on. You need to start measuring these things, right? By the way, this pattern exists even without artificial intelligence. This is due to many factors, and is not purely a consequence of the use of AI. A lot of it depends on your release pipeline, automated testing, and everything surrounding the code release process. The pattern remains the same, but the amplitude has changed due to the influence of AI. We always see these fluctuations in volatility, but usually not to such extremes, and this is exactly the effect of AI that we are observing. Here is a very interesting point. These are two quality metrics that are usually synchronized with each other. Code maintainability: How easy do developers find the code to modify? According to our data, this figure increased by almost 4%. By the way, in this study we analyzed about 200,000 engineers to collect this data. But confidence in changes, which has traditionally been closely linked to code maintainability... Like, this code is easy to maintain, modular, and easy to modify, I'm confident in the changes I'm sending to production. No, our confidence in change indicator fell by 6%. This is a really interesting contradiction, because it means: agents and helpers make it easier for me to understand and modify code, but I have less confidence in the results. I'm more afraid of breaking something now than I was a year ago. So, we observe an interesting psychological effect. And this is largely because the size of PR is growing noticeably. This will be one of the most important metrics we will pay attention to this year. It has n't doubled yet, but look at this trajectory, right? This happened over the same study period, about a year, and we saw that the number of rows in pull requests (PRs) increased from an average of 44 to 72. Now, there are a number of reasons for this. It's not just that, you know, these models are probably trained to produce relatively mediocre code. I've been writing code professionally since the late 90s. I remember the times when a developer's high skill was considered to be able to implement the same functionality using the least amount of code. And now they say: no, let's release this already, and the code that is generated will be mostly mediocre, because such is the law of averages. But on top of that, think about it: if you have a build pipeline that takes 45 minutes or an hour, and AI is instantly generating functions for me . Will I submit four different PRs with four different features and wait 45 minutes or an hour for each build, or will I just cram all this code into one PR? Right? So, there are many reasons, but it's worth emphasizing that every additional line of code is a potential bug, a vulnerability, it's more work to test, and it makes the code less portable. So we need to pay attention to this indicator as well. Because we also see that this is related to the perception of incremental delivery. I can work on small incremental changes, and it's actually one of the developer experience factors we've had the least impact on over the last year. This number and sentiment have dropped by 10%. And incremental delivery, as we've learned, is very important to the way we try to work, so that changes can be easily rolled back, and so that we can understand and test the changes that have been implemented. OK. What about demographic differences? What is the difference in the impact of AI on, you know, junior developers and others? Junior engineers use AI the most. This should not surprise anyone. Every time there is a certain leap, and I've been writing code professionally since the late 90s, I'm a bit " old school" and I go through that path too. But when you come into this industry, you have to relearn less, right ? In many cases, you've already worked with these things right out of school, so you're more likely to implement them when you start working. We also noticed other trends. We have interesting ways to evaluate performance based on use cases, which I'll talk about in part two today. One of them is analyzing agents' experiences when we literally ask them about working with people. We are trying to understand what tasks they are working on and how many tokens they are spending. We definitely see a trend where less experienced developers spend more tokens than more senior developers for the same task, and that's just a learning process, right? Again, this should surprise no one. But if we talk about who uses it the most, it's beginners. However, despite greater usage, we see that lead and senior engineers save about the same amount of time. Right? And at the same time, they spend fewer tokens. I want to make sure that's clear as well. So , in terms of overall time savings, the indicators are quite equal: both for junior engineers who use the technology more often, and for leading specialists who find it easier to notice AI hallucinations and understand the architecture of the changes they make. Smaller companies lead the way in saving time. Of course , their release pipelines are less complex, there is less complexity in the organization overall, which results in greater time savings for the company, which has fewer obstacles and a little more flexibility than a large corporation. What about measurements? How should we even think about measuring these things? It's worth noting that assessing developer performance and experience was a difficult task even before the advent of AI, and we never ended that discussion before " adding fuel to the fire," right? So it's still a difficult question, and I would say even more difficult now, because it's being complicated by various aspects of AI. But we'll all have to answer that question this year, right? After spending 10 million or even more—which I will talk about in my token talk— where is our tenfold productivity? When thinking about this, it's important to remember that we shouldn't give up on what we already measure. Our fundamental metrics of productivity and developer experience remain the most important, right? We want to understand how AI impacts these proven metrics that we already use. For example, we might want to analyze user groups. We might want to take data from API telemetry and tool performance to understand who is using what and where, but we would like to compare these user groups against our baseline metrics. How does this actually affect quality? How does this actually affect speed? How does this affect the organization and value creation? This is where our AI measurement system comes from . I won't spend too much time on this . We have a large technical report. My colleague Anton, standing at the back of the room in a white shirt, will be able to hand out printed copies of the reports after the talk, which describe how we developed this methodology and how to apply it. It focuses on three key dimensions of assessment. The first is usage: our daily and weekly active users, etc. The second is influence. Which metric should we improve based on usage indicators? As usage increases, what business impact do we expect? And finally, the cost. It's a good joke that 15 years after the last big hype, we're still trying to understand the costs of cloud services, but it's getting pretty expensive . We will have to measure it. You can think of it as a kind of maturity curve. Most start with usage: they simply find out what is happening in the organization with technologies, who uses them, what exactly , how often, and for what tasks. And then how do we connect that to impact metrics and value creation. What we really want to understand is whether these investments work, and that's what we're really trying to figure out. This is just an example of how we can compare such things. You can take two separate groups of users and compare them on metrics like merge request (PR) execution time, PR volume, or number of comments during review, right? So the approach is to separate groups of users and then see how that reflects on the baseline performance metrics that we have learned to trust. We also need to understand the readiness of our platforms. I like to say that in 2024 we gave everyone a programming assistant, and in 2025 we started creating agents. Now we realize that our infrastructure was not ready for this. Many vendors present here sell solutions that help with this problem. I think if you can measure your platform's AI readiness , you'll have a much better understanding of how effectively you're spending tokens and providing context to these agents. So, these are things like clear, precise, and well- structured documentation, data structures with simple relationships, managed modular code, reliable local CI, and stable test suites. By the way, if this sounds familiar to you , it's because we used to just call it a good developer experience, right? But it turns out that what's good for people is also good for agents. So paradoxically, we can finally start making the investments that we should have been making for the past decades. We also want to understand the effectiveness of how we work with AI. And this is one way to do it. What you see here is feedback, quality feedback from agents telling us where they encountered human-driven issues, the context they were given, and the feedback loops they had to go through. So we actually get this data from agents to try to figure out how effectively our teams are working with AI. And we can break this down into use cases, which is also very important . We want to understand which use cases provide us with the most efficient token spending and again contribute to value creation and productivity in the business. Finally, the fifth trend is integration through SDLC and PDLC. Why do we want to do this? Because code generation has never been a bottleneck, right? Even if engineers got 100% accurate instant code from the models , which they don't, you would still only be covering 14 to 16% of the total value stream. So we need to think bigger. Especially since the productivity gains we are seeing right now are more modest than expected. Despite the additional growth in PR throughput, our median growth in the study we conducted from November 2024 to February of this year only showed about a 7.7% median increase in this speed metric, with an average of 13%, but even our best results were in the 70% range. Nobody reached 2x, nobody reached 5x, nobody reached 10x. And that's because our time savings from AI are still being offset by other non-AI factors in our organization, right? We can save a lot of time with AI, and that's great, but if we still negate those savings through meeting days, context switching, and other distractions , through the cumulative impact of the development environment and the difficulty of building software around the code, then we're not eliminating the "bottleneck ." As Elijah Goldratt, author of the Theory of Constraints in the book The Goal and the inspiration for The Phoenix Project, would say: an hour saved on something that is not a “ bottleneck” is worth nothing. So we have to find that “ bottleneck” and fix it, and that’s what many organizations are doing. Morgan Stanley has openly talked about creating an AI agent called DevGen, which is designed to interpret legacy code, such as mainframe Natural and COBOL, and, I'm sorry to admit, Perl. I've written a lot of code in Perl over my career, but it's now an obsolete technology . The agent independently creates PRDs ( product requirements documents) for engineers, eliminating the reverse engineering stage, which allows Morgan Stanley to save about 300,000 hours per year. The Zapier story is one of my favorites in the AI ​​ space right now. They have a whole ecosystem of agents with whom they solve a lot of administrative tasks and operational issues, like daily stand-ups, etc. Using agent submissions and similar tools in the ecosystem they created , they reduced the number of stand-ups to two times a week instead of five . They successfully onboard engineers in about two weeks, which is very fast. Typically, the industry standard for this process is over a month. But what I like most about this story is that they see an additional value creation of about 15% per engineer. So they are hiring more people than ever before in the company's history because they have realized the truth: they get more productivity from each individual engineer, a better return on investment , and hiring more engineers will strengthen their competitive advantage . This is the right approach. This is a story about bandwidth. This is a story about the growth of innovative potential. This is not a story about downsizing. Rightly. They automate about 3,000 code reviews per week, triggered by pull requests, and they check superficial things. Humans still remain in the development cycle, but the initial superficial check performed by the agent becomes part of the accounting system. It is stored in the comments to the PR. So, the next engineer who will perform the inspection will already have an idea of ​​ what exactly the agent checked. So, it can save time. Finally, Spotify. If anyone remembers Spotify's model of DevOps, they were a kind of " north star" for DevOps. They created an agent for SRE that collects troubleshooting steps from instructions, information, and context about the incident, and then integrates it all into SRE communication channels. So when an incident occurs, the SRE immediately gets context and doesn't waste minutes searching for a solution to the problem. So, if you want to dig deeper into this data, our Q2 report will be out in a few weeks, but the Q1 report still has a lot of interesting things from this session . And if you subscribe to our newsletter or return to the site sometime in mid- to late July, we will already have a report for the second quarter. And if you want to see a preview of this report, come to my talk this afternoon. Thank you all for your time. I appreciate it.