This video series is for tech professionals already living and working in the US, Canada, the UK, or the European Union. If you're based outside these regions or in an outsourcing heavy market, the data in this video will not apply to your situation. I do not cover immigration, international job hunting, or topics like how to break into tech without a college degree. If that's what you're here for, this probably isn't the right channel, and that's okay. But if you are operating within these markets, keep watching. There's a lot ahead for various seniority levels and career tracks in tech. Tech cities today can be broken into three types. High salaries, insane hustle culture, and you live paycheck to paycheck. Mid salaries, okayish balance, but taxes crush any real ambition. Mid to low salaries, affordable living, but social life is non-existent. In a world where housing costs have spiraled out of control, inflation eats your race before it hits your bank account, where geopolitical tensions reshape borders, one question looms large. Where to run? I've spent the last year tracking emerging tech ecosystems and interviewing internationally just to feel that difference firsthand. So the question we should be asking ourselves is not just is there a job for me, but where can I afford to have a life worth working for? Today I'm launching a new series of videos exploring tech hubs across the world. Not only the usual places like the Silicon Valley, although let's be honest, we have to talk about it, but also the rising hotspots where tech workers might actually feel a better quality of life, more freedom, and a chance to build something without burning out. In the next few videos, we'll dive deep into the Americas and Europe. We will break down what each region gets right, and together, we will map out the sweetest spot for tech workers in 2025 and beyond. Hi, this is Daria and this is Tech But Make It Real. Don't forget to subscribe to stay tuned. Today we're talking about the mecca of tech, the United States of America. Starting with San Francisco, California, tech scene and culture. San Francisco and the famous Bay Area remain to be the global epicenter and the heart of the cutting edge AI and startups. the tech scene and the overall vibe in the Bay Area don't compare it to anything else. So, say what you will, that it's oversaturated, that it's way too late to go there, that it's unbelievably overpriced, or that it's lost its soul to money and business. And all of that may be true, but there is a reason why tech talent keeps flocking there. Many have tried to replicate the Silicon Valley, and all have fallen short. It goes without saying that it's home to massive tech giants, but what makes San Francisco so magnetic isn't just the companies. It's the people. Yes, the hustle culture is real and it does burn you out. But it's also where the most ambitious, the most unreasonably driven people come to build. Stanford University plays a massive role in this cultural phenomenon. It's a breeding ground for that rare mix of courage, intelligence, and relentless perseverance. Quality of talent. The concentration of highquality talent in the Bay Area is hard to match. And no, not every PM, not every engineer, not every founder is trying to build the new Slack. But the speed at which people are able to operate. Their willingness to learn, their willingness to improve, and the level of ambition that an average employee demonstrates at the company is unlike any other tech hub on the planet. If you're motivated by people around you, if you want to spend time with folks who are smarter that smarter than you, that have access to resources that you'd never reach without help, this place will mold you to stay sharp, curious, and very fast. The vibes. If you're not from the Bay Area, you didn't go to Stanford, you don't physically live in the area, and have no network, showing up to job hunt can feel like walking into an old school British private club. In my opinion, the best way to move there is with an offer in hand. Arrange for a job and then move. Going without a plan and hoping to figure it out is rarely a winning strategy. What you'll often see on LinkedIn is a pattern. People who started their careers in the Bay Area, they landed their first internship at Fang or tier one company and for the next decade they just rotate between the top tier logos. It is not uncommon to find a 25year-old who has already done stints at Pinterest, Google, Twitch, Meta, or Discord. Are they really that good? Sometimes, yes. But often it has to do with your geographic location. Simply being in the Bay Area, going to school there, or even just living there defines your proximity to opportunity. It's the people you grab coffee with. It's the people you go on a hike with. It's the people you get beers with. So when I say the cream of the crop, I mean the right logos, the right resume, and most importantly, the right network. And if you don't have that, breaking in is very, very tough. Cost of living and salaries. It's a well-known fact, so I'm not going to go too deep into that, but the cost of living in the Bay Area in San Francisco is beyond anything rational. Rent will be your biggest expense, and you will be shocked at the conditions people are willing to pay. absurd amount of money for San Francisco. For all its beauty, the ocean, the views, can also be very sketchy. I was there just last fall with a group of people from Europe, and for many of them, it was a major cultural shock. It usually doesn't stop people from moving there, but if your environment and aesthetics of the place severely impact your mental health, be very careful about the place where you choose to live. Conclusion: At which stage of your career is San Francisco a good place to move to? Here's a little summary of what I think. So, if you ever get an offer and you sit down and do the math and the conditions justify the move, do it. Having that location and having those logos on your resume will elevate your market value for years to come. Beyond that, you'll gain access to a pool of extraordinary talent and ambition. And let's be real, your career is often only as good as your network. There is a saying, you're not paying for the location, you're paying for the neighbors, and these neighbors are definitely worth paying for. Lastly, I have to mention the layoffs over the past 3 years. Silicon Valley and the rest of the US have been hit hard. As of April 2025, the Bay Area is still full of people who were laid off after years of fame. So, if you're job hunting there, know that you will be competing with the resumes that are the cream of the crop. Once again, the safest move is to land an offer and then pack your bags. New York, New York. Tech scene and culture. NYC is the largest tech hub on the east coast of the United States with a strong presence of tech giants and startups. It offers excellent career and education opportunities, making it a great place for networking and professional growth. So, let's talk about what NYC isn't. It is not Silicon Valley 2.0. You won't find a founder on every corner living with six roommates and grinding to get into the next YC batch. New York is more like here's a billion-dollar industry. Let's slap some AI on it, monetize the crap out of it, and ship it by next week. NYC is definitely becoming a bigger player in startups and venture capital with a growing early stage ecosystem and a strong tech talent base, but it's still dominated by the legacy giants IBM, Thompson Reuters, Oracle, etc. It's less technative and much more digital transformation. When it comes to AI, most of the innovation is happening inside innovation labs at those legacy firm internal AI roles at banks or tech forward roles buried inside massive enterprises. Sure, you can find some technative midsize players, but most of the market sits at the ends of the spectrum with legacy being the dominant force. It's less let's change the world and a lot more let's make this profitable and presentation ready by end of day. Quality of talent. NYC talent pool is far more diverse than what you would typically find on the west coast. You'll meet people from all kinds of backgrounds, not just Stanford grads or people who started their career in the Bay Area. The city is much more open to people who don't have fang logos on their resume and that closed private club sort of situation that I talked about earlier. There is a lot less of that here. You'll find people from across the US, Canada, Asia, or Europe, all coming with vastly different backgrounds. Now, some tech bros will say that the quality of talent in New York does not stack up to the West Coast. I respectfully disagree. These are two entirely different ecosystems and naturally the skill sets vary. In fact, New York is one of the places where having an MBA might actually be a good career investment because here you often find massive orcs and massive budgets. The vibes New York has always been and will always be a dynamic, chaotic, deeply cultural place. It's a masterclass in branding, unapologetically American, very raw and industrial, jarringly full of contradictions. It's gritty. It's overwhelming. It's inspiring and yes, often terribly smelling. But as a city, I love it. There is nothing else quite like it. With that said, if you're moving there, you need to be at peace with being a single drop in a very large ocean. Unless you're coming in at a very senior level. It's cutthroat and the intensity stems from one simple truth. There is always a line of people ready to take your spot. Cost of living and salaries. as a data scientist, a software engineer, or a product manager, you're looking at making between 160 to 180, probably 200 if you're in big tech. So, good salaries, but far from the Bay Area. On top of that, New York hits you with a combo move. Federal tax, state tax, and city tax. And then rent shows up like, "Hey, I'm $35,000 a month, and by the way, you're not getting an AC, a dishwasher, and you probably start looking for the nearest laundromat." You're basically paying to live in the city. You're not broke, but you're also not balling. Conclusion: When is New York a good idea? If your goal is to make serious money while staying employed, it's going to be very financially difficult until you hit the upper levels. So, if your plan is to climb all the way to the top of the corporate ladder, yes, it's worth it. But you need to grow an extremely thick skin. If you have been offered a very senior role and the compensation makes sense, do it. Nobrainer. If you want connections, you crave the speed, and you want to be around that unfiltered American energy, and you want to be surrounded by people who live and breathe work, 100% you will get that here. When is it not worth it? If you're looking to work on cutting edge AI, quantum, autonomous driving, deep tech, you're probably better off looking at the West Coast or some parts of Texas. NYC simply doesn't have the same density of AI roles in those domains. If you're not ultra senior and you're hoping to have a comfortable job and save more than 30% of your income, hell no, not happening. We didn't want to make this video too long, so we decided to split it in two parts. This is the end of part one. In part two, we will talk about the tech hubs that are less popular than NYC and San Francisco, but where life is much more affordable and the values are simply different. So stay tuned and we'll see you shortly. Bye.