Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today I want to talk to you about an interesting philosophical topic
Do we really have free will?
In the past few years
Many friends have told me
At a certain stage in life
I will be immersed in such a sense of nothingness and cannot extricate myself
Just think
I am just genetically
Or it is determined by physiological mechanisms
No free will
for example
The person feels that his motives and desires
Even the will itself
It's just a series of neural signals, electrochemical reactions
It's just the complex interaction of various hormones
What kind of person will I become?
Am I depressed or anxious?
My susceptibility
It seems like it's all written in my genes.
That is, the arrangement and combination of DNA base sequences
My self-awareness is nothing more than
It's just an illusion and hallucination evolved by humans.
can all be reduced to biology and evolution
When one realizes these
He will feel that everything about him is destined.
I can't change anything
Think of this
You will feel a deep sense of emptiness and sadness
And because of this sense of nothingness
Seems to be based on science
Therefore, it seems even more unshakable and unchangeable
Then this video
From the perspective of philosophy and science
Let’s explore this view
And try to propose a new understanding of oneself
Saving Yourself
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
First we say
The emptiness and sadness of the parties involved
It's a feeling of being determined.
He saw a chain of cause and effect.
Then realize
I am just a screw in the chain of cause and effect.
I am not the initiator
The initiated
I am not the chooser
The chosen ones
then
The parties feel
The self is nothing but an illusion that is manipulated
However
If people’s self-awareness
It can really be completely reduced to a neural mechanism
or gene
in other words
Genes are everywhere.
Dominant entities and entities
Then when a person realizes this
Why does he feel pain?
We say that if he fully believes
I am just a pure determined person.
So
He should have fallen naturally like an apple under the laws of physics.
No worries, shame or pain about whereabouts
Even feel happy and joyful about the non-existence of the self
Because it means
His self merges into some more universal entity
We know
This idea that the self is an illusion
In fact, it is similar to many Eastern religions.
For example, the Confucianism of preserving the principles of heaven and eliminating human desires
Harmony between Man and Nature
Hinduism's unity of Brahman and Atman
Buddhist Nirvana, etc.
This Confucian way of thinking
We have discussed this many times before
Everyone is familiar with
The Realm of "Brahman and Atman" in Hinduism
In fact, it is also a kind of negation and extinction of self-consciousness.
My body, emotions, and thoughts are all illusions
The real goal is to abandon these illusions
Attaining Oneness with Brahman
That is the Sanskrit word moksha
This word means liberation.
It means that life has escaped from the cycle of life and death.
and all kinds of self-inflicted pain
Hinduism is about abandoning all desires and consciousness
Considered sacred
for example
There are a large number of ascetics in Indian society
They hope to pass through painful practice
To achieve this spiritual liberation
So much so that every year some Indians starve to death
Buddhism has similar ideas.
That is, we believe that the root of suffering is ego.
Human form, feeling, perception, volition and consciousness
There is no permanent, autonomous and unchanging ontology
It is the harmony of cause and effect
All phenomena are temporary combinations of causes and conditions.
If my five aggregates
None of them has reality
I am not an independent entity.
It's just a fiction
Just a named combination
Even I want to achieve Nirvana
That is still a deformation of ego
So I broke these obsessions.
There will be no worries and fears in your heart
Only then can one truly achieve Nirvana
We are now going to experience this state
It should be more difficult
If you want to experience it briefly
You can go watch a Korean movie
Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter, and Spring
In the Movies
The flow of time is not linear
It is cyclical
The film uses repeated spatial arrangements and the same events
For example, posting spells on doors, ringing bells, and rowing boats.
Create a mood of eternal reincarnation
After reading
You will feel like a hundred years is just a moment.
People don't need a sense of meaning
No need for redemption
Only a complete nothingness and tranquility remain
Let's get back to our topic.
Through the above discussion
We can find
The belief that genes are the truer entity
Although it looks different from Eastern religions
But they all believe that the self is an illusion
It is the product of some higher entity.
However
The person involved was distressed to discover this fact.
Confusion, fear
Instead of feeling relaxed, liberated, and free
These negative emotions
Always accompanied by this consciousness
This means
Before I had this deterministic understanding
I actually already thought
People shouldn't be determined like this.
A person's self should have a stable meaning
But I can't find any evidence to support my
So I feel pain
This shows that the premise of "self-meaning"
It is buried deep in the experience
It is not a logical judgment
It is an experience given by nature.
Before I learned determinism
Already exists
When I feel sad about determinism
And hold on to the experience itself
I will find
This sad experience
So direct and unquestionable
It itself
It is through what Husserl called inner perception that
What I perceive
It does not require a medium
No reliance on senses
A person's self
The inner sense of the experience that is present in this moment
And you have a question about genetic determinism
or the cognition of physiological determinism
It is learned later in life.
It only appeared in your consciousness later.
It is no more genuine and fundamental than your sadness
and
This knowledge may still be changed in the future
It is developing
certainly
You could also argue that
My sadness about determinism
It is still a neural mechanism.
The bottom line
Or is it made by genes?
Another, more deceptive illusion
However, you can also trace back
When you realize
When the proposition "Even your sadness can be restored"
You will be interested in this proposition
Feeling a deeper sense of sadness
This can be traced back infinitely
You will find
This sad experience
Always appears earlier than the empirical explanation,
More original
With unshakable insight
This just shows
The presence of the self cannot be reduced or deconstructed
Another angle
It can also help us understand this problem
We can find
Whether we are a genetic determinist or not
Regardless of our cultural level
What religion do you believe in?
In reality
We always assume that others have free will.
For example
When we are in public
Seeing a person hit another person with his fist
The reason why no one would beat him up
It comes down to his fists and arms
Indeed, without his arms
He can't complete the act of beating someone.
But this is obviously not the ultimate reason for this matter
He also needs the muscle strength to throw a punch.
and the nerve structures that innervate the muscles
But these cannot be the real reasons
It is just the physiological basis for completing this behavior
If the attacker says
It's my neural mechanism.
My amygdala did this.
It's not me
I think
No one
Can accept and agree with this statement
What if we continue to trace back?
for example
Why is his amygdala active?
This may be because
Regulated by hormones such as adrenaline
The level of adrenaline is related to the activity of the enzyme.
The activity of the enzyme depends on the expression of its gene
Why does he have this gene?
And why his genes are expressed this way
This can be traced back to his parents.
A gene mutation in an ancestor
at last
We can even trace it back to the Big Bang
It was the initial particle collision that caused all this
But this is obviously ridiculous
The reason why everyone always wants to beat him up
Tracing back to the person himself
He wanted to do it himself.
This "itself" is actually his self
And this self must not be some kind of material entity
Because if he is a material entity
Then we can always trace back to his causal factors.
That is to ask who pushed him.
In his book Small Logic, Hegel criticized
At that time, there was a popular idea in Europe
It is a purely mechanical method of cognition.
For example, the organic process of blood circulation
It's just the contraction of the heart
Hegel said
This formalism
In the search for sufficiently specific conceptual knowledge
Satisfied with abstract grounds only
A more profound way of thinking
is not satisfied with staying at the causal
To achieve the purpose
Light, heat, moisture, etc.
Although it should be regarded as the driving factor of plant growth
However, it should not be regarded as the purpose of plant growth
Because the purpose of plant growth
It is the concept of the plant itself
certainly
Hegel's thinking
Used in natural sciences
It is risky and inappropriate
But its application in the spiritual realm is very profound.
Therefore, no matter what we know
Do you agree that humans have free will?
In reality
We always assume that others have free will.
This free will is a cause
That is the initial reason
It can't be traced back any further.
It can independently start a causal chain
Only free will
Can be the ultimate bearer of an action
certainly
You can say that he did bad things.
Because he suffered some kind of force majeure
For example, being instructed or coerced by someone.
Or deceived and deceived
For example, he has PTSD
Suffered some kind of childhood trauma, etc.
But when we explain it this way
We still think
He has no ability to exercise his freedom
But this shows
We always default
one person
Should be free to decide their own behavior
More importantly
All these external psychological explanations
Does not have
The kind of determinism in natural sciences such as physics
This brings us to another topic
That is, human behavior is reflexive
When a person realizes a certain psychological law
Even if his previous hundred actions
All are in accordance with the rules
Then he may deviate from this rule next time.
Physics experiments can control variables
Achieving repeatability
As long as you do the experiment under the same conditions
The same result can be obtained
But human emotions, memories, and motivations are not repeatable.
Even if you can find some statistically significant
High probability behavior pattern
For example, a person has suffered some kind of emotional trauma.
He may be in an intimate relationship
Showing avoidance and withdrawal
But this can only be said to be an open
Understanding the framework of the problem
There is no natural law at all
That rigid causal mechanism
Psychology is therefore interpretive
rather than deductive
You can follow the laws of mathematics and physics
Calculate the speed of an object
but
You can't judge a person by the trauma he or she has suffered.
Encountered some setbacks
Just like doing math problems
Calculate what he will do tomorrow
You can only learn through experience,
Approach him in a situational way
Understand him as a subject rather than an object
As
In the video we talked about statistical thinking
Positivism and natural science
It needs to be built on a series of observable
Above the operational standards
However, when it comes to human spiritual phenomena
This kind of thinking often leads to a superficial
In positivism
Objective laws do not depend on the subjective experience of the observer
Independent existence
It can be verified by experiments
However
In terms of human psychological reality
Objective criteria themselves have no inherent meaning
It is through each person's inner experience, emotional needs
and value assignment
This phenomenon of subjective significance being more important than objective criteria
It's actually very common
Even from the perspective of positivism
We can't deny
The key role of subjective feelings and meaning in the human spiritual realm
for example
Social support theory tells us
Individuals’ subjective experience and perception of social support
Often more than those that are quantifiable,
Visible social support
Playing a bigger role in growth
Statistical thinking doesn’t focus on what’s underneath the numbers
The unique intrinsic meaning given by the individual
Even think that these factors are not scientific enough
The depth and uniqueness of individual experience
Considered as a factor that needs to be eliminated
The result is statistical thinking
Only focus on the most external standards
and quantifiable indicators
These statistics may be entirely correct.
But it may be meaningless to the parties involved.
For example
I often see people criticizing the determinism of the original family.
that is
As long as a person puts his current pain
Attributed to the original family or some other trauma
It's just shirking one's responsibility
It will make you even more powerless
This statement
It completely confuses the difference between nature and spirit.
When one tries to see through the lens of trauma
Understand your present moment
This does not mean shirking your responsibility
Instead, it is an active and positive modeling behavior
It is a process of reconstructing one’s personal narrative.
An object has no consciousness of its own
It can only be pushed
But in the spiritual realm
Many things once you start to realize
Revealed from the unconscious
This consciousness itself
It is already a change and action.
As we just said
The human spirit is reflexive
You can't use that kind of mechanical thinking.
Directly applied
Kant said this in his "Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals"
and Critique of Practical Reason
In these two books
This refutes the attempt to find
The search for evidence of free will
He believed that free will could not be scientifically proven.
It can't be falsified
People have freedom
People have no freedom
Both of these views are actually self-consistent.
It's all self-consistent
But as long as you cannot deny human freedom in theory
So imagine yourself to be free
Because if a person says "I am free"
He can choose to believe in determinism.
You can also choose to reject it
No matter what he chooses
They all embody the concept of freedom in action
More inclusive and explanatory
so far
We responded to determinism mainly from a philosophical perspective
Next video
Let’s talk about this from a scientific perspective.
Why genetic determinism is false
And why it seems so convincing
That's all for today's video
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!