[Music] All right. Hello everybody to another Palunteer earnings stream. It is Monday, November 3rd. We've got pounder Q3 2025 earnings on deck and I am very excited to be here. I think you guys can hear the sirens in the background. Okay, there you go. They're relaxed. Dude, these sirens in New Jersey have been kind of crazy over the past couple weeks. We're here. We're live. Thank you everybody for being here. Uh this is going to be an exciting exciting show. We've got pounder Q3 earnings coming up. We have been covering this company for the better part of four years now. Now when I mean we I mean myself, Matt, Amir, Arie, Suchin, just so many people that have been part of this community. And so we have another opportunity to do that. Very blessed to be in this position where we get to cover this and uh everyone get to hopefully enjoy some of the analysis. One thing I want to start off with and I say this pretty much every time before pounder earnings is regardless of what happens to the stock, the company and the performance of the company is something that most of us really care about. And I know a lot of people here care about the stock, but I think there's a lot more people that have been in this stock since, you know, realistically under $10. And as a result, uh, the company performance is what really matters. Palenteer is now up more than 20 times from the lows. And so the stock price obviously has done very well for shareholders, has rewarded people, changed their lives. It's definitely changed my life. I'm sure it's changed so many of your lives. The community is the greatest thing I've gotten from Palanteer, and I think most people would agree as well. outside of the financial gains, the ability to celebrate the journey of covering the world's most hated company four years ago, which now seems to be the world's hottest AI company has been an absolute blessing. So, regardless of what happens to the stock price, obviously, we will be analyzing the numbers and analyzing the stock, but very grateful to be here and very grateful to celebrate it with the entire community. Joining me today, we got two people who have been in this name since the $67 range and have been doing a fantastic job covering it. along with the entire community. Ladies and gentlemen, we got air and we have Mr. Matt Money. What's up, guys?
>> What up?
>> Thanks for having us, brother.
>> As always,
>> are you guys
>> Are you guys excited? It's another Palunteer earnings as we end out 2025.
>> Hope car bangs on the table again.
>> You know, uh I think everyone kind of already feels that they're going to blow the numbers out of the water. I would be kind of surprised if they didn't. And I mean, everyone has kind of high expectations, but they kind of keep surpassing that, but I'm really curious now because the stock has been soaring. I'm kind of curious like is this like can we pick it even further because, you know, uh we've been talking about it like the momentum has been crazy, you know, uh with the talent here for like over a year straight now. Like everyone kind of knows that the numbers will be great, but will will we be able to like push 210? I don't know. I mean, do do you remember uh last earnings we all kind of had like predictions like, oh, will it be able to like surpass this kind of number and then you just like blew past? So, I don't know like uh is is there still steam in this momentum? Uh that's kind of what I'm curious about because I I already think that the numbers are going to be great. Like I already expect that.
>> I think that is the biggest question. So, Palenter was at 170 less than three weeks ago. Uh I think literally two weeks ago and now it's at 206. So obviously we have had a massive run since the decline over the past couple weeks. And I think the number one question on everyone's mind is hey we know the numbers are going to be good but how good do they have to be? The implied move is 8%. So that's like 17 bucks but that was before we moved up to like 207 today which was another alltime high. So it's looking like either 220 or 180 but we're going to have to see how the numbers plan out for that move to take place. Matt, how are you thinking about the stock price action in particular and uh how do you think the numbers will turn out in terms of having an impact on the stock?
>> I mean, the movement in the stock has been unbelievable. And yes, I am reporting live from a submarine uh in an undisclosed location. So, people that are roasting me in the chat, please continue. It's it's making my day. But uh but yeah, I think the earnings are going to continue to show up well and really excited to see I mean, but I think you're right. I think a lot of people are expecting a lot. So, I'm kind of curious. You know, selfishly, I hope the stock goes down. I would love to buy more, but I know in the meantime, that also means people, unfortunately, in the short term lose money. So, it's it's a tough spot to be in. You know, I'm continuing to buy every time I get a paycheck. So, but uh just the the performance of the stock has been phenomenal. And I think all I can equate it to is that people are really starting to see the true potential of this. And they don't view it as a black box anymore. So, like you stated as your as your intro, once the most hated company people are now starting to realize is essentially one of the most important companies in the world.
>> Uh we got someone else who is joining us that this guy has this guy has actually been doing what all of us as Palanteer investors should have been doing which is like traveling the world with your gains. But happily he's joining us for another pounder earnings. Araldo, what's up?
>> Hello. Long time no see. God blessing us with his presence. It's been so
>> Did you even hear Did you even hear the way he said
>> I know, but
>> I know.
>> Yeah, it's so much lack of stress. Just living the dream.
>> Arie, it's been a minute. Uh, obviously the stocks at alltime highs. I'll I'll I'll give the floor to you. What are you expecting on this earnings? At the cost of sounding boring, I feel I'm always saying the same stuff in these last quarters that all the focus is always on uh the revenue which we had the pleasure of seeing this famous acceleration happening but in reality the biggest story is on the margin side in my opinion because now all the narrative is on how AI is boosting growth. Yes, that's cool. But what about the productivity? And everybody now wants AI in some sorts. But the only company that is showing a revenue boost that is significant at the same time showing that they're able to do more with less is actually Palanteer. And the deals that you're showing right now, I think they speak from themsel. We're talking about deals that are more than massive from whatever vertical while uh other companies just crave what Palanteer is doing. Talking mainly about Service Now and uh Salesforce. I don't know if you noticed that um like the results of these other two guys were quite bad in the sense that they are speaking a lot of oh we are AI first we are here and there but then when you actually look at the numbers this is what you get like a growth that is just there 10% growth and then you go on service now which is doing better but again what is that amazing growth that the management tells in the earnings call we are AI first company what is that I think it's a fair point I I think the kind of core argument that that you've been making that a lot of us have been making has is that Hound is the only software company that is growing in a world in which every company is saying AI is the tailwind. You would think okay dramatic growth right the fourth industrial revolution pounder is actually growing and you know they got it for 50% the streets expecting 1.09 billion we know they're likely to beat that uh and if they beat that by a wide margin then they are the only software company on the planet growing with the margins that they're going at and that's why I think the story continues to be exciting. What what do you guys think will be the the the the single most important metric? Uh for me, I kind of have two, but if I had to choose one, it would be net dollar retention just for the scalability story that we've been hearing about. Uh I mean that we've been having for like years now. Like the the whole core idea is you get customers, which is my second most like kind of important one now. So I don't I don't care too much about topline as as mentioning. I think it's more about margins now. Uh number one, the net dollar retention. If we can reach 130 or above, it really cements the whole Yeah, you get a Palanteer product and then you just keep expanding Palanteer across your whole business. You keep powering your whole business with Palunteer. And as you do that, you have better metrics as a company and Palanteer benefits. It's like a win-win situation and the scalability is kind of endless considering that they're in every single industry that exists out there pretty much. So, I'm curious your thoughts. What you think is like the the number one most important metric that you're tracking?
>> Arie, your thoughts. Customer count, operating margins. What are you thinking?
>> I I think it's the combination of everything. We know that uh the customer count was very important a couple of years ago because we were just craving to see some signs of emotion. Okay. Now, yes, I it's obviously very important to get a lot of customers, but we know that these customers can be of very different size. I don't want Palunteer to have 10,000 customers like Snowflake just for the sake of having customers. I'm happy when the customer count increases, but at the same time, I'm happy that these are customers that matter and want to sign deals worth even 200 million. In the case of Lumen, we were talking about the Boeing uh the defense. So, it's like Palanteer is capturing all the leaders and if all the leaders are happy to partner with Palunteer, that to me at this point matters more than the customer count per se. Obviously, if you have the leaders and the number of leaders increases and they expand, then obviously the net dollar retention expands and that creates all the powerful uh flywheel effects that make us happy.
>> Matt, any core metrics you're looking at for this quarter?
>> For this quarter? Yeah, revenue obviously would love to see that with a 52% year-over-year growth. Uh also customer count. Um I think I think Amir was hoping for a 100. I would be ecstatic with a hundred. Um but we'll see. But I definitely think that's uh that's something that's obviously important. Net dollar retention maintaining its its upward trajectory as well. I would love it to see get to over 130% which we haven't seen in in since 2022 or or even earlier than that. Um, there's a lot of different things, but um, and I'd love to see US commercial continue its pace over 100% year-over-year growth. That was huge to see last quarter, and I'd love to see that again this quarter.
>> Yeah, I agree. I think uh, US government growth is going to be really important along with the fact that obviously net dollar retention and the quality of contracts they're getting really matter. One point I heard today by one of the analysts was that uh some of the government agencies were anticipating the shutdown and so uh they kind of depleted a lot of their budgets towards the end of September in order to make sure that they have services coming in even if they can't officially pay for those services. So that could have led to a little bit of a boost in government revenue particularly from the US towards the end of September ending out Q3. Uh which is also you know potential tailwind. But on the flip side of that this government shutdown is still a thing. Pounder has a multi-billion dollar business in the government. Um, Amir, any thoughts on if the shutdown is something that we should be at least curious about as investors for a pounder?
>> You know, I never even consider that. I hadn't heard that. Um, it it wouldn't surprise me if it was to be the case that people like, oh crap, let's deplete everything. But I mean, um, what what is the current status on on the shutdown? Because it seems that like Democrats are under a lot of pressure lately. like it is a very very bad look like optically. So I I don't know how long much longer it's expected to continue. It seems like they're actually losing a lot in like key areas by like prolonging this. So I'm not quite sure. I don't really have any real comment as of how much it might have impacted Palanteer. Like both it it could have been positive. They're like, "Oh [ __ ] sign Palent Palanteer contracts right now." But no, I I I don't think it's meaningful. like actually I I I don't think it has some like large meaningful impact. I mean these process are kind of long drawn out. They're kind of strict with uh having to meet uh so many requirements and stuff like that. So I don't know in reality I don't think there's much impact but I haven't been tracking the stories. I I don't really know.
>> Yeah, that's fair. I don't think there's going to be a massive impact, but at the end of the day, if the government does stay shut down for like another couple months, then, you know, then we end into get into Q4 and obviously counter still needs to get paid. You would imagine those contracts are already pre-approved from a long time ago. So hopefully it's not going to have the uh biggest issue.
>> Sorry guys, talking about the government, I I think uh it is worth realizing something that maybe we haven't really took perspective on. Do you know what happened in Q2 that now should start affecting these numbers on what was the most important government stuff that uh happened?
>> Let me share this first then I can share the screen.
>> Yeah, it was Maven, right? Uh so we in uh Q2 we got signed $800 million for Maven for four years. So already that moves the needle and then we got the NATO deal still for Maven. Then we also got some interesting clients like XAI with uh TWWG which is a huge holding. all these contracts that happen in Q2 now should start affecting. So I'm very curious of the government side because when uh we started covering the company the narrative was more or less uh the company was saying this government revenues are super safe. The market felt government revenues suck. We want commercial
>> right? But what if actually commercial government side keeps printing money at 50% growth and we know this 50% growth also comes with huge margins.
>> Yeah. No, that is a fair point or air go ahead.
>> Yeah, I'm kind of curious because um as you mentioned like in uh total contract value uh government was 1.2 2 billion last quarter and in total they signed 2.3 billion in total contract value and that was 143% growth year-over-year. That that is like insane for Q2. But I think like Q3 has been even more crazy with like everything they've been signing like how do they report like well up to 10 billion like how how does that show up for for the for the quarter when they say like yeah total contract value. So, I'm kind of curious if we like blow past like even 143% year-over-year growth is crazy, but I kind of feel like this quarter is going to be even crazier compared to the last one. Like, I think 2.3 billion is probably going to get beaten uh this quarter as well. I mean the activity has been insane. But the the only difficult thing is that Palunteer really doesn't have a need to report as often uh on their investor relations page as they used to when they were considered a black box as we were talking about. They would like constantly put out, yeah, we we signed a deal with with these people. We signed a deal with with with these people. And um like they had to keep it going. And that's why Kramer said like, yeah, they're only uh like uh they are an investor relation company. They're not a real company like you know if you guys remember his called back in the day. Palanteer is largely recognized now. They don't need to report as much but still even looking at what we do know you know the post that Arie famously shares on on Palunteer bullets you know before earnings it's been some massive deals in Q3. So I'm really curious what it's going to look like.
>> No I think that's a really good point. I mean, one of the things that we now know is that everybody in their grandmother who isn't even a part of the company wants to say Palunteer on the earnings call. Um, just because it gives them clout and it gives them gives other people, you know, the the at least maybe investors calm that they're doing something about maybe their stale innovation within the company or their lack of digitalization efforts or or what have you. But that's something that we've we've seen is that people are almost begging to put out press releases not even on behalf of not even Palier putting them out but companies putting it out that hey we're working with Palier just to get people to say oh wow they might be doing something with AI they might actually be doing something rather than just sitting on the old business model that they've been sitting on for say 10 20 30 years that hasn't been doing anything and they've been losing market share so um I think it's we've done a complete 180
>> think of the Nvidia partnership that was released on Nvidia website and not yet on the Palunteer one.
>> Arie, I was going to ask uh you weren't on the
>> We didn't get your thoughts, but what did you think when you saw that partnership, Arie?
>> I was that guy. Huh? Huh? Chips and is real. I really wonder if that was a hint nobody really grasped this. And and what he's talking about is this right here. Karp said this back in June of 24. It's about chips and ontology.
>> In the market is going to go to chips and what we call ontology. We have this ontology and the ontology will allow you to take a large language model and use it, refine it and you then impose it on your enterprise in the logic of your enterprise in the security model of your enterprise. And what does that mean for the 70 70 people are here presenting talking about why they're using it, how they're using it. You got to remember we started uh selling this product just over a year ago. Uh we started with the claim that we knew a lot about the precursors of large language models and large language models and the general approach of just buying models is going to be essentially self-pleasuring for an enterprise at the cost of the enterprise. All the value in the market is going to go to chips and what we call ontology.
>> I mean, he was right. A lot of that value has gone to chips and it's gone to the software companies that can actually incorporate the reason that these chips are being bought, aka the LLMs, if there's no incorporation of the LMS in the context of an enterprise. What's the point of even training all these models? Seems like that's what Palun is doing.
>> He's always kind of right. He like if you really go back and watch like historical interviews with Karp at at the time some of might have been like sounding like really really crazy even the one that we kind of lost hope for you know reaching 4.5 billion uh by uh you know 2025 year end like it's looking like like it's not impossible even though we kind of give up on it and like all of these things like yeah why should I care about what Wall Street says today when I know what they're gonna say in two years like all of these golden quotes like typically when Karp says something you probably should be listening because he's been right on like most of the things relating to this space and yeah chips and ontology baby
>> doesn't make you think that despite we know we know that we need to pay a lot of attention on every effing word the carp says there is never enough the level of obsession we can have
>> yeah there really is never enough I mean it is has been an incredible journey. I want to reiterate again, whatever happens to the stock is whatever happens to it. It's made a pretty large move in the past couple of days. Now, uh the implied move is either 180 or 220. 180 or 220. So, I mean, it would not surprise me if the stock stays flat, if the results are really good, but not good enough for 220, but also not good enough or not bad enough to make a dump and we end up not having the massive implied move. But given that, given that the amount of volume that's been coming in over the past couple days, there probably is going to be some move. And you know, the numbers will speak for themselves. But I think even if we're able to hold like 205, 200, I think a lot of us will be pretty grateful. Stock's up another 170% for the year, was up, you know, 300% last year. So it has rewarded shareholders very nicely.
>> Look, um, this stock is obviously expensive according to financial metrics. When we are starting talking about 100x but not on the earnings but on the sales we're talking about a company that is very expensive we see that also in terms of ebida free cash flow call it however you want of more than 200. So the question that I personally have uh I think everybody should have is uh what is the upside in holding the company? I think we need to be honest into trying to understand what is the state of what it is right now and what the market still doesn't see if we want to stay invested in the company. So assuming that you are still investing in the company, what do you see that the market still doesn't see? Who's going first?
>> Mir, you got it. You know, I've been saying this like for the longest time because if you've been following weeklys, if you've been following commentary like uh from from us and and me specifically, Palanteer has been trading overvalued for quite some time, but then we had a situation like from Q1 to Q2 where intrinsic value like doubled in one quarter because we found out something that we didn't know about company. I still think that Palanteer is just so early. We don't have visibility into like the sheer scalability but like we have some hints. We are seeing like this unprecedented like acceleration across the business and we believe they still early like they don't even have a thousand customers yet and they're still like able to scale current customers like uh crazy and we expect that to reach like 30% like just from current customers not not even accounting new ones. I think the reason to hold it wh why why I feel confident just keeping shares and not selling is because we simply don't have some visibility enough into Palanteer. Everyone can recognize that it's a super high quality company. We can recognize that it's likely one of the most important companies in the world right now. They're well positioned for like the biggest most hyped uh sector in the like financial markets that we have ever seen probably like AI. They're like right at the center. And yeah, it might be expensive, it might be overvalued, but just quarterto quarter like they're just improving intrinsic value just so massively that I believe that it's worth just holding it. And as Matt mentioned earlier, like I kind of hope that it does drop because I kind of want to buy more like closer to fair intrinsic value. But like I I don't I don't have a fear like I don't think that one of the most and highest quality companies in the world is gonna collapse tomorrow like uh so yeah that that's the reason for me like the sheer intrinsic value growth every quarter that passes
>> but do you think uh is that the analyst the market in general still is not able to appreciate
>> I think the the market doesn't really care about Palunteer at all. I think the market in general just cares about the momentum and the lack of anything negative happening to the company. That's why I think it's been running so much. I I I don't think the market itself is like, oh, okay, we can see that Jet C2 is going to like No, no, I don't I don't think the market really cares. I I just think that it's like one of those momentum names. A lot of volume. Volume breeds more volume as people want to keep piling in. So I think like the market itself is probably mainly momentum but uh I still think that the people who are starting to understand Palanteer more and more are increasing. So it's like a double whammy kind of thing. It's the way I see it.
>> Let me let me just say real quick guys this is going to be Palenter earnings. We're not covering any other companies. So Grab's going to be in the afternoon not covering Grab H. We're just
>> the title is Palunteer Q3 2025 earnings. So I think
>> I I came for grabb. I'm leaving.
>> No. So like for those spamming other tickers in the chat, I'm sorry. Today is not the day for that. Tomorrow morning of market open, we'll go through all those earnings, but today uh we're just going to be here for Paler. So that's what we've got. Um yeah, there you go. We're all wearing our Pounder gear. So shout out to Iliano and this merch store that has been incredible. and we are all wearing our gear. Uh, all right. So, we got three minutes left. We're going to get the results in a second. Again, the street wants 1.09 billion. They want 17 cents of EPS. So, uh, in the next few minutes, like around 401, 402, we should get the numbers. Um, I will be reading the shareholder letter as soon as it's out. That shareholder letter tends to be long, so please bear with me while I read through the letter. I do think uh the CEO who has changed all of our lives, his words deserve to be read even if uh even if people don't want to listen to the letter. So I will be reading that letter in its entirety as soon as it's out. And what we're looking for is a beat on revenue, a beat on EPS, an increase in fiscal year 25 guide operating margins to continue to go higher and if we can get that then I think this will be an exciting earnings. Guys, since everybody is now a gam professional gambler on K on Kali, it seems let's simulate without money like what would be your personal bet on uh what will happen uh at the stock post earnings?
>> Are you saying pump or dump? Is that what you're asking, Arie? All right, put in the chat. What do you guys think? Pumper. I'm Look, I'm going with pump. I think they're gonna have a big beat. If they don't pump because the stock's up so much, it is what it is. But I think there's still a world where they can pump because they can beat by a pretty hard high margin. Air.
>> Yeah, I'm also in line with pump. I I dude I I think the quarter is going to be great. I have a hard time believing that they're not going to beat uh and I think Yeah, pump for me.
>> Come on. At least one one dump.
>> I'm putting the poll in the chat, by the way.
>> Go ahead.
>> Dude, do you want to say first or do you want me to say first?
>> No, I said pump already. Okay, then I'll I'll take dump just because No, I was going to say I'm always wrong for the past several quarters. So, uh I've been thinking that we're gonna hit a turnaround. Not because I I want it to. Uh actually, selfishly, I do want it to, but um yeah, I mean I think at some point the overvaluation will get it. I just don't think it's going to be this quarter, but I I'll take dump just to be the um you had the customer service setup. Yeah. Um, yeah, I'll take that. I see I just need Chris Patel's uh fake Indian accent and it'll be perfect.
>> Oh my god.
>> But it's it'll just it's just the best. But uh yeah, I'll take I'll take dump. But
>> I don't know, man. I'm cautiously optimistic that these guys will continue to do well. But that being stated, I think that there's a lot of haters out there still that just want to see the company fail for God knows what reason. Whether it's political or whether they didn't buy it at seven bucks, I don't know. What I will say is they'll get their time where we do see a 20 or 30% pullback just because of macroeconomics or because of some reasoning that for for for some unknown reason we just happen to have a 20 30%. Let them have their heyday because in 10 years time this won't matter. They they'll be wishing that they bought a 200. So, um, you know, that's why I buy. I can't time whether it's going to go back to 180 or whatnot, but what I can say is $200 is cheap compared to where we'll be in 10 years. So, for me, you know, um, I'd rather continue at least to get as much of the company as I can. And, uh, hold on.
>> All right, ladies and gentlemen, the stock market is now closed. You know what's crazy that we we haven't done like I I just got reminded of it with the you know Kali thing. We we should have had a carp earnings call bingo like the things that he would say. Did you guys see the the the Kalian Coinbase co like uh where he just repeated everything that that was on on on like prediction markets? I kind of feel like we should have had a carp bingo for quite some time now. I mean, how many of these have we done? We don't even have a car bingo yet. Kind of want a carp bingo uh for next earnings. I'll I'll I'll make sure to create one for that. So, look for look forward to Q4, everyone.
>> All right. Now, we wait for the results. They are not out yet. We should be getting them in about a minute. And then as soon as we get them, we will start diving deep into the numbers. 20798 we are green after hours. 208 20830 it's moving higher. 20855 we are green. 20850 still no numbers yet.
>> Yeah, I don't know if that's anticipation of Bloomberg terminal is printing something. It's likely anticipation.
>> Have you got a terminal yet? It's been a while now.
>> I do not have a terminal, but I am I did hire someone to help me with research and news and to basically function as my terminal. Shout out to Cactus Jack and so we should get the news pretty soon. Let's see what we get. 20830 Against Street wants 1.09 billion in revenue and 17 cents EPS. don't have it yet, but once we get it, I will let everyone know what we've got. Um, don't have it yet on the website as well. Nothing is this. This is from Okay, so they still haven't updated it here. 20821. It's holding 208 again. Implied move is about 17 bucks up or down. So 220 or 180. Don't have the numbers yet. Nope. Still don't have it. All right. We're waiting.
>> We are waiting.
>> The best moment.
>> Yeah, this is literally the best moment. Like all of your family and friends don't know that this is happening, but for the people that are here, like we all know that this is happening right now. And then you see this like
>> Yeah, it's literally you're happy if it goes up, sad if it goes down. It's literally one of the other.
>> Do you think the these guys trading here are more Robbie traders or like citadel institutional people?
>> I I think it's both. I think on a name like Palanteer, it's both.
>> Look at the bottom candles. It is so perfectly like
>> Yeah. Usually on a big earnings like this, you have everyone that's speculating back and forth. Still don't have the numbers. Still don't have it. Still don't have it. We are green after hours. I think we closed at like 207 and we're at 208. But the numbers are not in
>> shareholders out shareholder letter. Oh, that's Q2. Never mind.
>> That's Q2, right? Yeah. Yeah, that's what I thought.
>> They tricked me anticipation crazy. Um, nope. Don't have it yet. Vert.Ex beat on the top and the bottom and then Na'vias uh came in line with EPS and they beat on revenue. Vert.ex Pharmaceuticals beat top and bottom. Na'vias beat revenue in line on EPS. Still don't have it yet. Not on the website. Um, no. Nothing. Nothing yet. Probably at around 405. We have one minute.
>> CC doesn't have it. Doesn't have it either.
>> Oh, we're up. Oh, we're green. We're green. Oh my goodness. We're green. That's a big green one. 220. 221.
>> Green.
>> It's green. It's greeny green. It is green. I don't have the numbers yet, but it's green. Is it holding the green? I don't know, but the initial reaction seems like it's a good number. Uh, don't have it yet. I don't have it yet, but it's green. 21668. Um, okay, we got it. They beat EPS by 24%. They beat revenue by 8%. 1.18 billion. 1.18 billion. That is an 8% beat on revenue. 24% beat on EPS. EPS is up 110% year-over-year. Revenue is up 63. Is that correct? I believe that's 63% year-over- Yeah, that's 63%, folks. Shre expected 50%. We came in at 63%.
>> That is the 8K
>> 100 million revenue more. Yes, that's what it looks like. Let me pull. I think they just That's
>> I had them doing one 1 12 billion. What What What did they
>> 1.18? They came in at 1.18.
>> Man, even beat my expectations. That's 63%, right?
>> That's insane.
>> Yes.
>> That's 63%.
>> Whoa.
>> That's absolutely insane.
>> If that is true, it means also the guidance for the year will increase by a lot.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, I got some numbers. So, uh f they see fourth quarter revenue to 1.3 billion. The analyst thought it would be 1.19. They see fiscal year revenue to 4.4 to 4.4. The analyst thought it would be 4.15. Very close to that 4.5 number Karp said a couple years ago. Uh fiscal year adjusted operating profit to 2.15 to 2.6. The street thought it would be 1.93. And then adjusted Ebida for the third quarter was 606 million. The street thought it would be 502 which goes to show their margins are continuing to go go higher. Yeah, probably eclipse that rule of 100 like quite handily this quarter like a r rule of 110 or something is going to be
>> 114.
>> Yeah, let's uh let's get some coverage on this. Here we go.
>> You can have a press release. I showed it in the
>> Oh, thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
>> Let me uh let me pull this up right here.
>> Doesn't even load for me. Too much traffic.
>> These numbers, folks, are I mean, these are just mind-blowing.
>> Revenue now forecast at 1.33 billion. And this is above street estimates too. Full year revenue 4.4 billion also stronger. 2025 free cash flow guidance also revised higher for QC beats in both US commercial and US government. US commercial revenue up 121%. US government revenue was up 52%. Rule of 40 this is a enterprise software metric that gets used 114% now for Palunteer. I spoke with CEO and co-founder Alex Karp who told me he suspects these are the single best numbers ever printed in enterprise software. Uh quote, I think it was a watershed, it is a watershed moment where people who are just basking in their own narcissistic skepticism of Palanteer largely for reasons of laziness or ideology have to really rethink maybe the ontology is the formative piece of software, maybe the FTE model, maybe being pro-American is actually a good thing. Karp again saying that those who will make money in AI will have chips or the ability to connect that raw data to the real world meaning ontology. Uh he says Palanteer remains focused on the US. It's now about threequarters of revenue saying quote we supply our product all over the world but we're not in the business of doing remedial extra education for the rest of the world. We're in the business of helping the US especially the average person to participate in the wealth creation. spent a lot of time in my discussion with him discussing the impact of AI on the economy and especially the workforce. what Karp refers to as worker available GDP, meaning does the average worker participate in these structural changes tied to AI and how uh and John in terms of that talking about this idea that folks that went to elite colleges and got these elite degrees were always seen as very valuable because they didn't have skills and they could go anywhere and do anything and that now that is reversing and having
>> my goodness folks these numbers
>> I mean 40% net income 33% oper operating margins. That is insane. What the [ __ ]
>> I think 40 cent 40 cents on every dollar goes to the bottom line. All right, let's let's read through let's read through the press release and then we'll get deeper into the numbers. 114% our rule of 40 score. These results make undeniable the transformation transformational impact of using AIP to compound AI leverage. Year-over-year growth in our US business surged to 77% year-over-year growth in US commercial 121%. We are yet again announcing the highest sequential quarterly revenue growth in our company's history, representing 61% yearover-year growth. So they got a six- handle. The street wanted a five handle. They put a six handle in front of it. 60% year-over-year growth. US revenue up 77%. Close 204 deals at least a million. This number was 157 last quarter. That's 50 more deals. Record setting 2.76 billion of TCV. That's up 150%. US commercial TCV 1.3 billion. That's up 342%. Customer count, 45% year-over-year, 7% quarter over- quarter. Uh remaining deal value, 3.63 billion. That's up 200% year-over-year, 30% quarter over quarter. Gap net income 393 million, 33% uh margin adjusted income. Wow. They broke through 51. This was at 44 last quarter. They increased it by 7 percentage points. 51% adjusted income operating margins. 61 million uh net income margins at 40% EPS of 21 cents and adjusted free cash flow 46% margin at 540 million 6.4 24 billion in cash. They had 6 billion. They added 400 billion to that. They now have one of the strongest balance sheets in all of software as well. DTM revenue 3.9 billion. Wow. I am sad. So, people are like, Matt's happy and sad. I am sad. I want to buy more goddamn shares.
>> This is uh this is pretty incredible. It did get a pump.
>> I was just going to say it did get a pump to 220. Now it's down to 209. Again, this is one thing we talked about. The numbers are I don't even know if phenomenal is the right adjective, but at the end of the day, the stock did move before earning. So, you might have just some people taking some profits, which you know ends up happening as well. Go ahead, Amir.
>> I was going to say like uh one of the last like remaining bare arguments is like the delilution, right? The delilution is down substantially. It's like 4% now year-over-year, which is still, you know, quite a lot, but compared to where where we came from, like last quarter was like almost 7%. Like they almost like cut that in half. Um, you know, SPC as a percentage of revenue is like down massively. Like uh I mean, yeah, let me plug some numbers. This is crazy. How do they keep doing this? Like we we kind of had big expectations but still like they just keep surprising us.
>> Yeah, this is pretty remarkable.
>> Go ahead, Matt.
>> Does it say how do they keep doing it? It's so funny because it's so true. It's like what? How? But I mean it just keeps signing deals. It makes sense. I can tell you already that this probably increases fair intrinsic value once I like recalibrate everything like massively. So that's just goes to say like yeah why should you keep holding Palanteer even though it's like so expensive overvalued. Yeah because like the valuation changes just so drastically because they just you know blow it out of the waters every time lately it seems like. What's the value of a company that is able to double the net profit already starting from a high base?
>> I mean now we are talking about 40% gap profit margin. So even including VSBC it's like tier one absolute tier one company and still it has room to grow. I don't see a shareholder letter yet. I don't know if it's coming out. I would imagine it's would it would but I don't see it yet. When it comes out I'll read it. Um but these numbers are just I mean dude there's not a lot of companies forget software companies. There's not a lot of companies growing 60% at all. And that's what Palantry is doing. The fiscal year guide is so fun as well because I think they're going to beat that 4.4 four billion number and they're going to come in at 4.5 and then Karp's just going to be like, I told you guys three years ago we were going to do four and a half, you know, and we went through some ups and downs, but we got there. And so if they beat 4.4 and they get anywhere near 4.5, that's going to be well over 50% year-over-year growth. Again, the letter is out. Okay, I don't see it on the website. Um, if any of you guys have, you can link it in the chat, but I don't see it yet. Pouncy right here, 208. Again, the stock that initial move to 220 obviously because the numbers were amazing. Uh, the street's going to have to figure out if these numbers are good enough for them to keep holding. We also have, you know, this is the after hours. Tomorrow is a whole different day. And again, based on what they say on the call, based on the guidance, based on these numbers, I can imagine a lot of people saying they want to get more exposure to pounder. that could obviously lead to stock price action as well. Okay, don't see the letter yet. We'll get to it in a second. Let's get a little bit more coverage right here and then we'll keep going from there.
>> And some stuff outside the US. What do you say?
>> So, John, I I'm not going to be the skunk at the picnic. Um that that role I refuse to take, but but I will say look, I don't know Palanteer that well. I'm not going to tell you any insight that people don't already know. However, what I would say is that these exceptional
>> letter is in the Twitter thread. Is it? Oh, there it is. Okay, cool. All right, let's read the letter. Here we go. All right, here we go. Pounder Q3 2025, November 3rd. We are still at this very start of things. This remains the beginning, the first moment of a first chapter. Our business generated 1.2 2 billion in revenue for the third quarter of the year, a new record in our more than 20 year history, representing an accelerating and otherworldly growth rate of 63% over the same period the year before. We also generated a staggering 476 million in profit this past quarter. Again, a record in our company's history. And to be clear, nearly half a billion dollars in profit in only three months. It is worth remembering that the business is now producing more profit in a single quarter than it did in revenue not long ago. This ascent has confounded most financial analysts in the chattering class whose frames of reference did not quite anticipate a company of this size and scale growing at such a ferocious and unrelenting rate. Some of our detractors have been left in a kind of deranged and self-destructive befulement. It has indeed been difficult for outsiders to appraise our business, either its significance in shaping our current geopolitics or its value in the in the vulgar financial sense. The reality is that Pounder has made it possible for retail investors to achieve rates of returns previously limited to the most successful venture capitalists in PaloAlto. Amen to that. And we have done so through authentic and substantive growth. In the United States, our commercial business has now more than doubled in the past 12 months, growing 121% and generating 397 million in the past quarter. This segment of our operations is an absolute juggernaut, and we believe that it will become on its own one of the most significant business stories of the century. and American economic life. For all of its idiosyncrasies and complexities, American corporate culture remains one of the most adaptive on the planet. Our partners in the United States, the earliest and most voracious adopters of the novel language models that are presently reordering human life and the ontology that allows them to effectively operate, understand how significantly the terrain beneath us all has shifted and they are racing to experiment and evolve, setting aside preconceived notions of what ought to work for what actually does. It is a ruthless pragmatism and one that is yielding extraordinary results. In the end, the route for for us to do some the route for us to something universal, a generalizable artificial intelligence platform was made possible by an obsessive focus on the specific the particularized and quite idiosyncratic challenges and technical problems of our disperate set of customers. Part two. We have grown quite significantly in recent years. And yet, counterintuitively to many, including ourselves at times, our reluctance to abandon constraints has been a principle and driving force of our continued rise. Our headcount is one manifestation of this disciplined approach. The casual expansion of our ranks would have diminished the need to lean even more heavily on the strength of our software and the ontology and to ensure the continued maturation. The alternative would have been to rely on an army of bright minds to do work that would have obscured the platform's weaknesses and ultimately hindered its development. Henry Jaglom, the British film director, said in an interview with the Washington Post in 1994, citing his friend Orson Wells, "The enemy of the art is the absence of limitations." The same is absolutely true in software development. Part three. A century ago, the poet William Butler Yeets warned, "The falcon cannot hear the falconer. Things fall apart. The center cannot hold." Today, America is the center, and it must hold. A rejection of any shared and defined and defined success of common culture in this nation and others has had significant costs. We should indeed return to a national must return to a shared national experience an embrace of common identity that that by definition puts forward certain ideas, values, culture and ways of living at the exclusion of others. It is and was a mistake to casually proclaim the equality of all cultures and cultural values. Some have proven to be wondrous and generative, others destructive and deeply regressive. And an even greater mistake is to believe that we could or should convert the world to our way of living. And yet we have as a culture resisted some actively and strenuously a degree of ascent to common beliefs or of shared culture that would make such orientation possible. It is however the pursuit of something greater, a rejection of vacant and neutered and hollow pluralism that will help ensure our continued strength and survival. Sincerely, Alexarp, CEO and co-founder of Pounder. There you go. uh Arie in a reaction to that letter. It's like it's happening. I I love to see like the fact that we saw the evolution from the beginning tells us how much skepticism there was and frankly there is still. But at the end of the day, if you are close to the customers solving value, that is where you have the recipe that can unfold stuff. We were saying before there are service now, Salesforce, all these companies showing we are AI AI AI but then neither internally we're really able to do that.
>> Amir, your thoughts? Yeah, you know, these ones uh typically go above my head. Um and I was busy filling out the Excel sheet, but there was one quote that really um caught my attention, and it it was the one about like, yeah, um like pe people are now uh starting to understand, but uh I'm paraphrasing here, but he's like, "Yeah, we don't really care. It's not really our problem if no one else catches up to us. like we are only caring about you know uh propelling America forward and and the west forward and like just like uh what what was the exact quote now I feel stupid because I forgot it but yeah some something about you know not caring about anyone else and just propelling the west forward that's the only quote I caught
>> Matt same here say something great so people forget that I wasn't paying attention
>> is more of a numbers guy.
>> Yeah, the the these ones go above my head. The
>> Matt, your reaction to the letter.
>> Uh I continue to laugh uh at everything Dr. Karp writes. Uh the chattering class is something that is absolutely hysterical. Uh I'm going to use that because it's not just Palanteer, but many other companies, but Palanteer I think is one of the most uh obvious cases of people just chattering just for the sake of chattering. Um which I think is hysterical. So, I'm gonna I'm going to use that and and coin that from now on, whether it's in my day-to-day business or other stocks that I cover. But, uh, yeah, I mean, I agree with him wholly, and I think this is one of the main reasons why I continue to follow Dr. Karp is his unrelenting passion for America first and making sure that, you know, we we do everything that we can to to continue to excel in AI as well as software. and he's trying to help others. He's trying to help allies that are obviously aligned with the United States but may be behind due to regulation or whatever. But u yeah, his his efforts are relentless and I think people are starting to finally get it.
>> By the way,
>> okay, Arie, go ahead. No, that sentence uh our reluctance to abandon constraints has been a principle and driving force of our continued rise that made me think of something that I posted the other day replying to a post I made where essentially he was sharing look there are so many things Parenteer is like the first to make it against the old dogmas like uh oh doing a merch is stupid oh you can't grow that much with business like that. Oh, it's stupid to defend the the US. And uh here we see the application of also what Il Musk insists a lot with thinking first principle don't let your constrained sorry your dogmas constrain you. And I think uh all of us here need to be aware that yes also all the metrics valuation are important but we should not be rigid into thinking oh no if this PE is this then is expensive you should need to re keep reevaluating everything as if you are studying stuff for the first time. No, I agree. And look, there was a Fortune article uh that um talked about Pounder's shareholder letters and basically the the thesis of the article was like this is really weird, but this is what Karp does. No other CEO puts out letters quoting all these philosophers from hundreds of years ago. But Palunteer is a different company, right? So like the reason Karp does this, the reason there's this mystique around the company, the reason there's this aura, the reason there's this retail investor army that deeply cares about it and you know Karp mentioned that retail investors have been able to get Silicon Valley venture capital type returns by taking a bet on Palunteer at $6 just like an Andre and Horowitz took a bet on Airbnb, you know, in 2008 when it was worth a million, now it's worth 60 billion. Like to be able to get those types of returns, you need the most incredible companies on the planet and you need some of the most incredible execution. And by the way, that execution needs to get a multiple that most companies can't get. And the only way for it to get a multiple, for it to capture the world's imagination, is for them to do it their way. And I think given Karp's authenticity and his unrelent unrelenting uh necessity to steer the company in their way and make the world adapt to them versus them adapt to the world, you know, that is why you're getting this result that you're seeing here today. Now, business results were amazing. Again, stocks up basically half a percent after hours. I just want to remind people the stock was 170 less than two weeks ago. It's at 208. One could argue that the earnings move that was going to happen might have already happened tomorrow. We're going to see when more volume comes in, but incredible results across the entire business.
>> Guys, have have you seen the net dollar retention rate?
>> Amir, can you send me the uh the presentation because I don't
>> Yeah, I'll I'll put it in the in the chat here. and 34%.
>> Wow.
>> That dude that I don't even know what to say. The the only thing was commercial customer count was 911. So a bit below what I was expecting, but that just goes to show like when you have that kind of scalability. I mean, yeah, we'll we'll go through the the whole thing, but that one really stands out. 134 is insanity to me. It was 120 last time, right? Or 125.
>> Uh, no, 127, I believe.
>> Okay.
>> Uh, but still like imagine that even if Palanteer didn't get any new customers or revenue from new customers that are like younger than 12 months, they they grew 34% just with like customers that have been with them for 12 months or longer.
>> That is insane. Like that that just goes to show like how scalable, you know, AIP is. Now it just keeps expanding further and further.
>> And I know your Yeah, I know your customer count wasn't exactly what you want, but it's still 45% year-over-year like
>> Yeah, it's still great. Like I'm I'm not saying like oh my god, but uh like the net retention totally blew it out of the water for me.
>> Crazy.
>> They added 62 new customers over the quarter. Uh commercial customer count is up 49% year-over-year. Keep going deeper into the numbers. Again, uh NDR at 134 is incredible. Uh here's Brent Th. He's never been the most excited about the company's valuation, even though he has, you know, praised the company. So, let's get his thoughts and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Take for you to perhaps change your tune uh on Palunteer.
>> Yeah, the fundamentals are rock solid. The valuation is like anything we've ever seen uh train at 90 times revenue. So there's no way you can put any evaluation metric on the actual valuation. Uh again, we've never seen anything like this. Uh the fundamentals, we certainly haven't seen anything like it as well. So to split the two, we've said uh repeatedly the fundamentals remain exceptional. Uh the question is, is this the the best place to put your capital? Uh based on all the other trends that are going on, you can buy Amazon at 15 times. You can buy Pelanteer at 90 times revenue. So we've been arguing that uh we feel there's a better use of capital in other places. We've been wrong for part of this call on Palanteer, but I think we've been right in those other names just given the valuation concern and they continue to uh execute at at a incredible high level. So there's nothing to really take away. The government business decelerated a little bit. You know, 52% versus 53 last quarter. If you want to nitpick, obviously the government shutdown. What's that going to do to the business? But ultimately the commercial business is crushing it. They're putting up great numbers. And as Dr. Karp has said repeatedly, we haven't seen numbers like this from a software company. We've covered software for 30 years. There's nothing like this to compare it against.
>> So if we have nothing like if we have nothing like it to compare it against, how do you get to a $60 price target?
>> 25 times uh revenue, which would be one of the highest multiples in software right now. If you look across the entire industry, the highest multiple in our industry, whether it's Cloudflare, Crowd Strike, these are phenomenal companies that are producing huge returns that trade at those multiples. And so you have to assume that this execution continues consistently for years uh for that multiple to come down. We've never seen a 90 multiple. And look at the numbers. Why is the stock flat? because it's flat because the multiple is so high and there's no real room on the multiple expansion to go,
>> right?
>> So again, I go back to way better other stories in AI to invest in that I have uh more conviction in.
>> If I were an investor sitting at home though, I think I would wonder is Brent Phil just stuck. I mean, you had the $60 price target. It's over 200. Like you could double your price target and still have a strong sell on the thing. So how does this work? Like do you have to stay at 60 just because you know in for a penny in for a pound?
>> No. I think we look at multiples. We've been doing this for a long time, John. This isn't our first rodeo. Uh so when we saw Snowflake implode, Data Dog implode, uh we weren't on the Snowflake trade. We had a hold and everyone's like, why don't you have a buy? And ultimately there's a point where these crack. Palanteer has done a phenomenal job. But when you look at uh so many other names in AI uh across our tech franchise that we cover, many of these names were up 50 to 100%. So would we like 150 160% return that Palunteers had year to date? Great. We have a safety net around other names that are up 50 to 100 plus percent. And so again, it's a relative bet and I think when you look across institutional money managers, they've made the same bet. A lot of our clients have have bet made the wrong bet not betting with Palunteer. Uh and and ultimately it comes down to valuation. The retail investor can bet because they don't really know the valuation. They don't know it trades. You can literally take a 60 point multiple between the second highest rate uh uh name which is Quadflare Crowd Strike. Uh and the gap between that and Palunteer is like 60. So that it's a it's just it's a it's a it's a number that we don't feel comfortable with.
>> Okay.
>> And we feel comfortable again with others. I'm not taking anything away from the fundamentals. Fundamentals are great.
>> All right. Well, that's why Alex Karp keeps talking about it. Brent Phil, thank you.
>> Arie, your thoughts on what Brent said?
>> Uh, sorry. Okay. I can't understand his point because uh I was reasoning like him when I was just an analyst. So when you talk with institutional clients you they will tell you okay but why should I buy this when there are other alternatives and the alternatives are stuff that for him are better are easier to understand with Palunteer I believe uh that if you haven't captured exactly how insane the business is you should better just shut up and not pretending to know stuff because uh the all the other companies that he mentioned are not able to show what Palanteer is doing. He's not able to show neither at the product level neither at a financial level which is something he should understand. The other companies that he mentions the ones he likes are not able to grow this much while also expanding the margin. The stuff that I keep insisting that is black magic. we can give it a name to this black magic as being able to deploy AI effectively to yourself to your clients and uh all the other companies are not doing that. Imagine this already without the multiple sorry the margin expansion that paner is having seeing these acceleration in the revenue is already crazy. The fact that the margins essentially more than doubled in these years while having a lot of growth is just out of the mind. It's like having an infinite return on investment on the capital and uh with that I think uh I like his point is reasonable into okay this is very expensive compared with all the other companies but guess what is the rule of 40 of Palunteer compared with all the other stuff like we see that in the presentation right
>> um I don't know if you can show it uh from year.
>> I believe rule of 40 is at 114, but essentially your argument Arie here is that it's just it's a different company that's not trading like any other software company, and that's why it's getting a different multiple.
>> Um, yes, like it is a it is trading at a different multiple, but it is trading for a diff at a different multiple for a good reason.
>> Yeah,
>> it's it's a complete outlier. How do you price an outlier with an outlier price? And this look at
>> his argument essentially is worth only under the condition that Palanteer is not able to sustain this level of growth and margin. What if actually he's wrong and we see this trend keep reinforcing itself due to all the companies in the world now see Palanteer and see holy shish this is the only company that says AI is it delivering AI to itself and to the customers okay maybe let's make a call while before they were skeptical now at least you need to make a call if you don't make a call you're stupid yeah it's the Classic example, Amazon. These companies were very, very expensive. Now maybe pounders in a league of their own, but it's not like we haven't seen this playbook before in technology. Companies were very expensive. They sacrifice profitability for growth. In this point, pounder is not sacrificing anything. And they eventually grew into the valuation. And so again to your point Arie, they have 900 customers. This will be 9,000 one day. And so you can not break 10,000,
>> right? I mean Palter is doing similar revenue if not more than some of those other companies on literally onetenth of the customer account. So he is right that the stock is expensive. No one's denying that. But the stock has been expensive for a very long time. The question is why does it continue getting expensive? And I really don't think the stock went from 100 to 200 because of retail investors. Like I just refuse to believe hundreds of billions of dollars of market cap were added because of people in retail. I think there was a large institutional uh understanding of the story and they decided to buy in. And now you have to ask yourself, why would the institutions sell it off? And there could be tons of reasons why institutions sell, but at its core, these numbers do not give you a fundamental reason why you would see institutions take profits here unless they don't think the growth can continue. But if it can, then that's why this multiple likely is able to stay for pounder.
>> As you say, let's imagine you are an institutional investor. You may trim a little bit just to say, okay, I keep some profits, but would you really sell the this the position? Why?
>> Right. Matt, go ahead.
>> Say um share based compensation uh maybe increasing at $170 million, but overall the total amount of shares has decreased almost substantially where on an annualized basis we're barely crossing over 1%. Which I think is huge to kind of note. Um part of that is obviously because the company has grown the mat massive in terms of uh market cap but also this the fact that um they have been trying to normalize sharebased compensation as a whole but if you look at it I think they only increased 8 million shares or 9 million shares quarter over quarter and if you kind of look at that I mean over a 2.5 2.6 six billion fully diluted share count. That's pretty low in terms of the amount of shares added. So, if that trend kind of persists and it continues to slow down, then eventually uh these guys might be able to catch up and actually start reducing shares, which is something that I don't think if you talked about a year or two ago, um people would have actually ever believed.
>> I I think uh Mr. Brent was kind of contradicting himself like throughout that that whole thing. Like he he starts off, well, okay, well, we've been kind of mostly wrong on this one. I'm like, dude, when were you ever right on Palanteer? Like, you never been mean mostly wrong. You were never right on this. And then they're like, "Ah, we we've never seen a multiple like this." The same thing that he said on CNBC for probably like four quarters in a row now. And then they're like, "Well, why is it like that?" He's like, "Well, I've never seen a business like like this either." I'm like, "Yeah, or or you're starting to put two and two together now after I don't know how many years of tracking Palanteer." Like, you shouldn't even try to make sense of the multiple. You should try if you want to do the work, you should try to make sense of the valuation, but you're not even doing that. But still, like, put two and two together. I've never seen a multiple like this. And then you're like, I also never seen a business like this. I don't know, man. They're kind of the best business. Like, they're kind of killing it. I'm like, yeah. Are you starting to get it, Brent? know then
>> that's only your job
>> and and and and then and then they're like well you have $60 price target how do you get there like 25 multiple which is still you know pretty high. I'm like, uh, okay. That's like, uh, even if they they said that like, even if you double it, it's still a strong sell. Like, even if you 4x it, it's like, you know, fair value. But still, like, doesn't he listen to himself? Like a 25x multiple for a business that he can't even categorize of like what kind of business they are, how good they are, like unprecedented godlike kind of business that he's been tracking, and he he still doesn't get it. This is the kind of analyst that makes me understand why Palencier stopped inviting more analysts on onto the calls. Even though I want, you know, as many as possible. Even Brent, you know, he's been on there historically. But I mean, you could tape like his like uh CNBC appearance from like three quarters ago and you could just like play that over. It's like the same thing. He said nothing about the business ever. Like I I've I've been reading out of the sell side equity re research reports. All everything they talk about is just the multiple. They never discuss like core parts of the business. Very rarely you will see some uh do it or highlight some kind of deals but no one really shows that like yeah we kind of understand Palanteer like no one. That's why I still believe that like we're still kind of early into the whole Palunteer story. Like they they don't get it at all. And I was just laughing throughout. I'm like, "Dude, you're contradicting yourself throughout this whole thing. It's the same thing, like the same script that you've been had. Like, why do they even put you on? Like, put someone else on to cover Palunteer. At least we'll get a fresh perspective. Like, you're just paring yourself at this point." It's kind of funny. Yeah. I I I think one thing also that's important, the dig he took at retail investors is kind of funny because it's like he is the guy who gets paid a very nice salary with a very nice bonus with all his juicy health benefits to recommend to clients what stock to buy. And since this thing was $20, he's been telling them to not buy it. and it has done very well for the retail investor who apparently is so stupid they don't understand what the valuation is of what they're buying versus the institutional guy who's supposed to be telling all of his clients at Jeffre to to stay away from the stock. So you got to take it with a grain of salt because these guys intrinsically have a motivation that is rudimentary against what retail has been able to do in terms of our due diligence of the company because quite frankly they have not done good analysis and as a result you know the stock prices disagreed with them. But I can understand to your point Arie his line of thinking. It's just there's a lot of other qualitative elements to the story of Palanteer that are not just rooted in looking at Amazon's ebida multiple as his comparison is uh versus the overall story of Pounder and the trajectory of their growth. And so there's a difference of opinions. That's what makes a market. But obviously people that saw that story and believed in that story most importantly believed in Alex Karp, they've been the ones to benefit. Look, I think the big issue is trying to think of Palunteer as just another software company. If you look at it from the angle as if you were evaluating Snowflake, Data Dog, these other companies that he likes, yes, Palunteer is untouchable. But uh if you don't understand we're talking about a company of a different league, then you're not a good analyst. Then I can also understand that if you were so bullish on all these other tier 2 companies and then you completely miss the god tire then it's so hard to say okay guys I completely missed the god but if accept there is a god it means you're just a useless crap software
>> he can't sell that idea to its clients because his interpretation was built into pushing these other companies, right? It's a fair point. It's a fair point. It's hard to swallow the pill when you're wrong, but you know, and if if you don't swallow that pill, then obviously you've got to fight against the the pill in the first place versus just deciding to take it. Uh we got about 17 minutes until the call starts. They have 6.4 billion in cash. Uh air, I'll ask you the same question I asked you on weekly, but any thoughts of what you think they should now do with almost seven billion on the balance sheet? No, just just just keep chilling in um treasuries for now. Uh keep a lookout, you know, with the Fed ramp customers if there's something interesting there that aligns with your values and something that you can pick up and invest in early perhaps maybe the end thing, you know, the the same uh thing that we've been talking about um throughout, you know, these weeklyies that we've we've been having historically. But yeah, there there are some crazy numbers. I I don't know if uh you've been covering it. 470 uh sorry 337% growth in US commercial TCV. I I I think the presentation says a bit slightly higher uh due to around like 340% or something like completely crazy overall TCV you know how we mentioned that 143% last quarter was crazy this quarter was 154.5% like 2.8 8 billion in contract value signed during Q3. That is like insane. Just for one quarter, they almost signed, you know, uh contract value worth of like almost like their annual revenue just in one quarter and it is accelerating and growing like like 154%. That that is just insane. Another one that is quite massive to me, uh, deals above $1 million grew 96% year-over-year and 30% quarter over quarter. You know, we hit 204 uh new deals above $1 million and it's a basically a all-time high across like all the segments, you know, um 53 deals of at least 10 million. So, it could be 10, it could be, you know, 5 million, 500 million. um you know alltime high across all segments. So that's was also really really impressive how that's picking up you know so quickly like it just everything everything is just accelerating across the whole business. Uh by the way folks we got some breaking news. It looks like we have a new short on Palunteer. Uh
>> really
>> Michael said
>> Michael Bur has shorts on has well puts I shouldn't say shorts puts on Nvidia and Palunteer. Now they were disclosed today. I don't know if that means I don't know if that means you know he he obviously didn't put them on literally today if they're disclosed today. He bought Molina, Lulu, and SLM. He added 100% to Lululemon. Molina is a healthcare company. And then SLM. He bought 480,000 shares. This was just disclosed today, November 3rd. And then puts on Nvidia and the pounder.
>> Sorry.
>> Uh just that's a snapshot at the last day of Q3 of of his portfolio. It's just that he filed it today, but that's his 13F filing for the previous quarter. So as of I think um 31st or 30th of September that's a snapshot of his portfolio at that time but we don't know when he actually you know got into a position. So so we can't know for sure but that's just a snapshot as of a few days ago. That is crazy. Barry
>> put on talent never I never crossed my mind that he would be doing that. He has been doing some cryptic tweeting lately though so I don't know. Luckily, he hasn't been very right uh as of late. He's been quite wrong on on many of his, you know, uh sell everything and then buy everything. Actually, I I saw that he's actually outperforming the S&P 500 this year. But yeah, that's quite an interesting one.
>> Yeah. Wanted wanted to get back to the cash pile piece. So, um they didn't bring it down on a quarterly basis, but at least through the year, uh based off of the first nine months, they in the AQ that they disclosed, they've um purchased what was it $6.1 billion worth of marketable securities, which I assume to be T- bills. Uh and they've sold 4.3 billion. I assume selling some of the T bills that are maturing uh and or um that have already kind of gone up in price to to help use that to purchase additional T bills hopefully out in time. But I'm curious to see um I haven't checked comparatively to what it was last quarter, but I assume it's up pretty significantly. Um so I'm curious to see what u what the statement is particularly around what they're doing with the cash pile. Yeah, I mean I'm pretty comfortable with them just putting that cash into treasuries and not taking too much risk. I do not want them to buy Bitcoin or gold or anything crazy. So, uh it's a great balance sheet to have. And I don't know, did they disclose that they bought back stock this quarter? I don't think they did.
>> Million.
>> Um yeah, 19 million's worth, but it doesn't say how many shares. So, that's what I'm looking for. Um is how many shares.
>> Yeah. So, whenever they do really want to start buying back stock, I mean, they have plenty of cash to be able to do that. There was no split announced. I know there were some rumors. People were thinking there was going to be a split. There was no split announced, so you're not going to see that for for Pounder. Uh, we got the call out in 12 minutes. Arie, I'll start with you. If you did have a question on the call, what would your question be based on this quarter?
>> I need to think of it. ask uh yeah someone else
>> here you have a question ready to go
>> no let's uh give give us five minutes and let's let's all uh put our brains together and come up with some good questions didn't take
>> it's hard to find something that doesn't work
>> like like this you know it's kind of
>> I I mean my question would be pretty easy I would just be international growth right because because that is the one sector that is not massively scaled obviously like US commercial Uh we saw they had a partnership with the department uh the department of ministry um oh sorry the ministry of defense in Poland. Uh they got the UK ministry of defense for a billion bucks. Um Fujitsu and SMPO expended their partnerships in Q3. So I would be curious to say when do they think the tides are going to change even if it's just sociologically via the attitudes of Europe to start adopting or embracing AI software. I mean the fact that Maven 90 days ago got integrated into NATO is seems like a relatively big deal. Uh the Poland partnership also very important. So you would imagine that more and more countries are recognizing at least their governments are recognizing this is really important to have and then if their commercial enterprises could start adopting it as well. That could be another S-curve that none of us are thinking about.
>> Well, let me Okay. Uh just quickly the the numbers for this quarter I I don't know if they disclosed it but I calculated it. Non US government grew 66%.
>> I was going to say that
>> yes it's like
>> and in commercial 9.3 which is kind of massive given that we've been like negative for like a couple quarters in a row. So I mean it is kind of happening. Go ahead.
>> What is the what is the what is the absolute dollars on that 66%.
>> Uh 147 million.
>> That's not crazy. US government is 486.
>> Well, so if if I asked that question, I think that's what their response would be. It would be like, hey, we grew non US government 66%. It's a small base, but that is growing. If that continues, then that's going to be closing in on half a billion by the end of next year.
>> I'd um maybe this maybe this is selfish. Sorry. Do you want arty to go? Go ahead.
>> No, go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead, Matt. Go I was going to say uh maybe this is selfish, but one of the things that I'm obviously looking at pretty regularly is space. And uh you know, I know that the Golden Dome contract is something that Palunteer has been rumored to to be a part of. And um we know that Palanteer in the past has had customers like Black Sky, which is a kind of a satellite imagery company. Um so I'm curious to see if this is still another vertical. Um, obviously we have a multitude of different defense systems that talk to each other and obviously having a central operating system around that specifically kind of like the Golden Dome, you know, what potential do we see and and what kind of size project would that be and what kind of run rate and uh obviously that would have high high margins obviously as well, but I'm kind of curious when when they would anticipate something like that because obviously you could build the satellites, but being able to communicate across all the different companies would be a massive challenge. So having that kind of space force contract around understanding and and getting data across a multitude of different satellites and hardware that obviously has its own ontology that needs to to be in use to be able to to to organize all the data and ensure safety. So I'm kind of curious um
>> you know where they're at with that. You know what I would ask? Um in this last period we had so many partnerships but uh we also had some partnerships with companies that we all we tended to see as enemies in particular snowflake and uh data bricks right I would be curious to understand better what's the rational behind these deals maybe there are some things that we failed to grasp so that we could appreciate what we could see from these partnerships emerging.
>> Yeah. So, basically they they've started introducing a lot of new partnerships with other software providers. Uh because one of the biggest issues with Pounder is is this whole vendor lockin issue, right? Like where where like companies are afraid to use them because they don't want to be locked into just Foundry. Um and Chad has been talking a lot more about hey like if you're on snowflake or data bricks you can work with pounder without having to be just in pounder and those strategic partnerships uh I would imagine from a go to market perspective are going to be very valuable as more and more customers that are already on those platforms don't have to leave them
>> like it seems very linked to multiplane multimodel plane
>> I I with that I still struggle to see vent picture. So I think it is very valuable. I would love to for them to share more what's the idea.
>> Yeah, multimodal data plane as Chad has said before.
>> So I I guess my question would be, you know, give uh Dan ice his flowers. You know, he's been asking about boot camps for I don't know how many quarters in a row, but I I I think I'm kind of curious how boot camps have evolved. you know how many have they run? I think they have run enough once uh far enough back where they can actually kind of start to answer that nice question about you know conversion rates. You know historically uh when when boot camps were new we got you know reports of okay this quarter we ran this many boot camps next quarter we ran this many and that like doubled quarter over quarter for like four quarters in a row. Uh but then like we haven't really heard much about it. So I don't even know like do do they have they evolved on how they run them? Like what's the scalability? Is it mostly run by like the consultancy partnerships now? Like what what do what does that look like right now? Because it isn't really converting into absolute customer account numbers. Now we know that they do boot camps with current customers as well. That's why we see this scalability. I mean they're being introduced to like what they can do with the AIP and stuff. So obviously what that 134 net dollar retention rate is likely as a result of boot camps as well. But I'm kind of curious like what kind of conversion rates are they seeing? How they evolve? What do they look like now? How scalable is it? That that kind of thing. Um so maybe Dan Ice this quarter will have his question answered. Let's see. Yeah, I agree. I think uh I think that the boot camp was part of the evolution with uh AIPCON or AIP as a product back in 2023 that kind of changed everything. And you know, there's been these pivotal moments throughout the life cycle of Palunteer that um like have defined the company's growth trajectory and AIP back in June of 2023. Um that's also when I think Chad joined the company. So you know maybe that's the reason why Pound has 20x since then. But um AIP was like oh they're embracing AI and then boot camps was oh they're figuring it out sales and distribution. And the biggest concerns we had when we were doing pounder weekly two and a half years ago was they can't sell and where's the product that really ushers them into the age of AI and uh it's here. AIP boot camps as a go to market and the evolution of those two over the past couple years along with Pounder's brand. I mean, the amount of inbound Pounder was getting every day after Jensen Hang says that uh you know Pounder is the single most important software company in the world. Chad says I'm glazing too much, but it's true. Um or you know when when Trump is shaking hands with Alex Karp. I mean like you would imagine a lot of companies and governments around the world are like, "Huh, maybe we should give a call to pounder and at least have a conversation." that likely translates to business results.
>> And uh you do you remember sorry we had this this um conversation already a couple of years ago. There was a big issue back then when Palunteer wanted to have more visibility or had some toxic visibility that was not expecting at the mean period. There was an issue. They had visibility but they couldn't really translate that visibility into business because the business was just as slow. It was too reliant on FDS making a lot of uh long uh pilots. But now with uh boot camps a FD like the process of transforming visibility into deals is insane. So with these strategical deals like Nvidia, we can expect we have the basis to keep this uh momentum rolling.
>> Yeah. And you know that Nvidia growth quarter back in May of 2023 changed the trajectory of their company and it seems like we're starting to get some of those growth quarters coming in for Palunteer.
>> I dude, we were growing that 15% a couple years ago. Now it's at 63. Emir, can you help me double check something uh on the outlook please? Because if I put the numbers of the outlook for the year and and I imply what is expected in Q4, I start having weird numbers.
>> What number is it? The quarter.
>> Yes. Like u if I put as an input the
>> but what did they say
>> like they say that they will get 4.4 billion in revenue for 2025 and 2 billion of uh adjusted income. So that means 1 uh 331 billion for Q4,
>> which is another 60% year-over-year. Uh or what was your question?
>> Okay. No, so I probably miss put some numbers wrong.
>> So it's 4.4 billion for fiscal year 2025. That means uh uh 1.331 billion in Q4. So 60.9% basically 61% year-over-year. which I mean what did they guide for in Q3 like like uh above 50% and they did 63. So I mean if they if they're already guiding for like 61% for next quarter like dude they're totally going to hit the carbs uh four 4.5 like for sure. And
>> good afternoon live here we go.
>> I'd like to welcome you to our third quarter 2025 earnings call. We'll be discussing the results announced in our press release issued after the market close and posted on our investor relations website. During the call, we will make statements regarding our business that may be considered forward-looking within applicable securities laws, including statements regarding our fourth quarter and fiscal 2025 results, management's expectations for our future financial and operational performance, and other statements regarding our plans, prospects, and expectations. These statements are not promises or guarantees and are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause them to differ materially from actual results. Information concerning those risks is available in our earnings press release distributed after the market closed today and in our SEC filings. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements except as required by law. Further, during the course of today's call, we will refer to certain adjusted financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or isolation from GAP measures. Additional information about these non-GAAP measures including reconciliation of non-GAAP to comparable gap measures is included in our press release and investor presentation provided today. Our press release, investor presentation, and other earnings materials are available on our investor relations website at investors.palunteer.com. Over the course of the call, we will refer to various growth rates when discussing our business. These rates reflect year-over-year comparisons unless otherwise stated. Joining me on today's call are Alex Karp, chief executive officer, Sham Sankar, chief technology officer, Dave Glazer, chief financial officer, and Ryan Taylor, chief revenue officer and chief legal officer. I'll now turn it over to Ryan to start the call.
>> We had a monumental third quarter, shattering expectations yet again. Our overall revenue grew 63% year-over-year and 18% sequentially. We outperformed across the board, driven by strong execution in the US, which accounted for 3/4s of our business in Q3, growing 77% year-over-year and 20% sequentially. Our rule of 40 score soared to an unprecedented 114, up 46 points year-over-year and a full 20 points since last quarter alone, reinforcing our position as the defining enterprise software company of our generation. Our US commercial business grew an incredible 121% year-over-year and 29% sequentially. Driven both by insatiable demand and the quantified exceptionalism compelling customers to scale AIP across their operations. Organizations are embracing an undeniable truth. Real enterprise AI at scale requires Palanteer. We're seeing that AIP again and again is the only platform delivering transformational impact in this market. And critically, AIP is the only AI platform that has an actual plan for compounding your enterprises AI leverage, not just the model makers leverage over you. Sharing this leverage with our customers is our highest priority. Our whole company is singularly focused around value creation for our customers and I'm proud to share with you all the fruits of our labor. We closed our highest TCV quarter ever at $2.8 billion. Underlying this performance, we closed a staggering 204 deals worth $1 million or more, of which 91 deals were worth $5 million or more, and 53 deals were worth $10 million or more. In our US commercial business, which now accounts for 34% of our overall revenue, we closed $1.3 billion in TCV, a milestone achievement for the fastest growing area of our business with a more than 6x year-over-year growth rate on a dollar weighted duration basis. The trajectory is clear. Customers are converting to larger enterprise agreements in short time frames, reflecting both the expanding scope of their AI ambitions and the immediate impact our software delivers. A leading medical device manufacturer signed a multi-year expansion just 5 months after their initial contract, increasing ACV more than eightfold. Two weeks into their initial contract, the conversation evolved from a single use case to pursuing the opportunity of becoming an AI first enterprise. Their CEO approached me to embrace a shared vision for an enterprisewide AIP deployment to transform their entire organization. This transformation reflects a broader pattern we're seeing across our customer base. AI is a strategic imperative owned at the seuite level with executive leadership recognizing that enterprisewide AI adoption is the defining factor separating the AI halves and the AI have nots. We're seeing seuite-driven AI transformations across our customers. At a leading insurance company, the CEO has taken personal ownership of their AI transformation, meeting with our team regularly to orchestrate a companywide transformation around AIP, reimagining every function from underwriting to claims processing, leading to a significant expansion of our work together. Our partnership with TWWG Global, named Virgin.ai, AI continues to gain momentum. As TWWG's Thomas Tol noted, quote, "What was once a competitive advantage is now a competitive necessity. Companies that fail to incorporate AI into their core operations will be outpaced by those that do. These examples underscore what we are seeing. We are the only platform bringing true transformational impact to the enterprise AI market." Turning to our US government business, revenue grew 52% year-over-year and 14% sequentially as we continue to deliver mission critical capabilities. We remain deeply committed to our founding mission of supporting the US government, honored by the privilege of equipping our nation with transformative software that actually works. We remain focused on delivering the most advanced defense capabilities in the world to the US government and internationally to our allied partners around the world. The momentum we're carrying into Q4 is extraordinary. As we look towards the end of the year, our mission is clear. Deliver the production capabilities that turn AI from promise into performance for the enterprises defining the future of their industries through AIP's compounding AI leverage. I'll now turn it over to Sham.
>> Thanks, Ryan. 20 years of grinding has built a unique moat and a growing lead. Our products were built for this moment, and the numbers continue to show it. Realizing value from AI in the enterprise requires the elegant integration of LLMs, workflow, and software. And this is only possible with Ontology. Our foundational investments in ontology and infrastructure have positioned us to uniquely deliver on AI demand. now and in the world ahead. The most significant product developments are the accelerating progress in our AI applications inside of AIP. AI FDE, our AIP native development agent that understands how to connect to data sources, how to integrate and transform data, how to create ontologies and functions and build applications. It's unleashing incredible speed and productivity for our FTEEs and customer developers alike. At one customer, two human FTEEs spawned an army of AIFDES to migrate a customer off their legacy data warehouse in five days. Something that would have taken an army of SIS up to two years. This is not a prototype. This is production. Across our customers, the results are shocking. AI Hivemind is a new AIP capability that orchestrates a swarm of dynamically generated agents to tackle hard problem solving, idea generation and refinement and executable proposal generation that is integrated with ontology and therefore aware of the context of your enterprise. AI Hivemind was originally developed to solve extremely complex problems in the classified space, but it's already been used to help our commercial customers identify bottlenecks to their supply chain proactively, developing possible solutions and then leveraging AFD to code that up into an actual solution. In the government space, AI Hivemind is able to take its proposals and generate intricate mission plans right in Gaia and Maverick. Our focus with AIP continues to be enterprise autonomy. our normative view of where the value is for AI in the enterprise. Hivemind now lets the AI develop novel solutions to emergent challenges and to identify hidden opportunities and the rest of AIP enables you to turn those ideas into an implemented reality. Closed loop evolution of the business with AI possible because of AIP and ontology. We continue to make investments that allow enterprises to extend AIP to the far edge. Edgeontology is a new lightweight implementation of ontology that runs on mobile devices and enables customers to build mobile applications or embedded software for hardware, things like drones and robots and is fully integrated with your enterprises AIP instance. Turning to field-f facing updates, the US Army issued an official public memo directing all army organizations to consolidate and centralize on Vantage. The Army data platform built on Foundry and AIP. The Army views this not merely as a technical decision, but a cultural decision, enabling the datadriven decision-making that continues to make our army the most lethal in the world. This directive will enable the Army to rapidly sunset legacy systems and enable more investment in the Army's future force, concept, and systems. Warp Speed and the American Tech Fellowship are early investments to support manufacturing and re-industrialization in America are bearing fruit. While Warp Speed launched by helping new defense entrance meet their surging production goals, it's now being rapidly adopted across the traditional defense industrial base and the maritime industrial base. The second cohort of the American Tech Fellowship will be wrapping up in the next few weeks. We started the American Tech Fellowship because we noticed that many of our best builders were frontline workers. They don't come from conventional consulting backgrounds who don't have formal computer science backgrounds. To highlight a few of these folks, Mason, a Louisiana based civil engineer, is building AI applications for more accurate estimates for heavy construction projects, something that is only going to grow with our re-industrialization. Michael, who works for a potato farm in North Dakota, is streamlining its operations. And Cody from Georgia, who is a utilities expert, is building in foundry to deliver safe, reliable energy across the South. These Americans are the true face of innovation, underscoring that it will be the American worker with AI that drives re-industrialization and American prosperity. Our customers have taken notice and asked us to create American tech fellowship programs for their employees specifically to include Lear who highlighted their fellowship in their recent earnings call. With that, I'll turn it over to Dave to take us through the numbers.
>> Thanks Sean. We had an outstanding third quarter, achieving a rule of 40 score of 114, our highest ever by 20 points. We also generated our highest ever reported revenue growth rate of 63% year-over-year, exceeding the high end of our prior guidance by,300 basis points and representing a 3,300 basis point increase compared to the growth rate in Q3 of last year. On the back of this extraordinary strength, we are guiding to revenue of 1.329 billion in the fourth quarter, representing 13% growth quarter over-arter, our highest ever sequential revenue growth guide, and 61% growth year-over-year. We're also raising our full year 2025 revenue guidance midpoint to 4.398 billion, representing a 53% year-over-year growth rate, an 8 point or 252 million increase over our fullear 2025 revenue guidance last quarter. In addition, we're raising our fullear US commercial revenue guidance to in excess of 1.433 433 billion, representing a growth rate of at least 104% year-over-year, a 19% increase over the guidance we gave just last quarter. Accelerating demand for AIP continues to drive the outperformance in our US business overall, which grew 77% year-over-year and 20% sequentially in the third quarter. Our US commercial business grew 121% year-over-year and 29% sequentially. and our US government business grew 52% year-over-year and 14% sequentially. We delivered these exceptional topline results while also achieving our highest ever reported adjusted operating margin of 51% exceeding the high end of our prior guidance by 500 basis points and highlighting the unit economics of our business at scale. Our revenue and profitability drove a 20 point sequential increase to our rule of 40 score from 94 in the second quarter to 114 in the third quarter. On a trailing 12-month basis, we generated 2 billion in adjusted free cash flow for the first time in the company's history. Turning to our global topline results, third quarter revenue grew 63% year-over-year and 18% sequentially to 1.181 billion. Third quarter US revenue grew 77% year-over-year and 20% sequentially to 883 million. Excluding the impact of revenue from strategic commercial contracts, third quarter revenue grew 65% year-over-year and 18% sequentially. And third quarter US revenue grew 78% year-over-year and 20% sequentially. We closed our highest ever quarter of TCV bookings at 2.8 billion, up 151% year-over-year. This eclipses our prior highest quarter of TCV bookings just last quarter by nearly half a billion dollars. Customer count grew 45% year-over-year and 7% sequentially to 911 customers. Revenue from our largest customers continues to expand. Third quarter trailing 12-month revenue from our top 20 customers increased 38% year-over-year to 83 million per customer. Now moving to our commercial segment. Third quarter, commercial revenue grew 73% year-over-year and 22% sequentially to 548 million. This is the fourth consecutive quarter that revenue from our commercial business has been larger than our US government business. Excluding the impact from strategic commercial contracts, third quarter commercial revenue grew 77% year-over-year and 22% sequentially. We closed 1.4 4 billion in commercial TCV bookings, representing 132% growth year-over-year and 32% sequentially. AIP continues to drive existing customer expansions and new customer conversions in the US. Third quarter US commercial revenue grew 121% year-over-year and 29% sequentially to 397 million. Excluding revenue from strategic commercial contracts, third quarter US commercial revenue grew 126% year-over-year and 29% sequentially. In the third quarter, we closed 1.3 billion of US commercial TCV bookings, representing growth of 342% year-over-year and surpassing the billion dollar mark for the first time. Over the past 12 months, we closed 3.8 8 billion of US commercial TCV bookings, a 217% increase from the prior 12 months, highlighting the demand for AI production use cases. Total remaining deal value in our US commercial business grew 199% year-over-year and 30% sequentially. Our US commercial customer account grew to 530 customers, reflecting growth of 65% year-over-year and 9% sequentially. Third quarter international commercial revenue grew 10% year-over-year and 5% sequentially to 152 million. For international commercial business, we continue to capitalize on targeted growth opportunities in Asia, the Middle East, and beyond, but remain focused on accelerating the growth in our US business. Revenue from strategic commercial contracts was 2.9 million for the quarter. We anticipate fourth quarter 2025 revenue from these contracts to be between 2 to 4 million compared to 9.6 6 million in the fourth quarter of 2024. We anticipate 2025 revenue from these contracts to be less than half of 1% of full year revenue. Shifting to our government segment, third quarter government revenue grew 55% year-over-year and 14% sequentially to 633 million. Third quarter US government revenue grew 52% year-over-year and 14% sequentially to 486 million. This growth was driven by continued execution in existing programs and new awards reflecting the growing demand for AI in our government software offerings. Third quarter international government revenue grew 66% year-over-year and 16% sequentially to 147 million bolstered primarily by our continued work in the UK. As previously mentioned, we closed our highest ever quarter of TCV bookings at 2.8 billion, up 151% year-over-year. Net dollar retention was 134% an increase of 600 basis points from last quarter. The increase was driven both by expansions and existing customers and new customers acquired in Q3 of last year as we see the effect of the AI revolution. As net dollar retention does not include revenue from new customers that were acquired in the past 12 months. It does not yet fully capture the acceleration and velocity in our US business over the past year. We ended the third quarter with 8.6 6 billion in total remaining deal value, an increase of 91% year-over-year and 21% sequentially, and 2.6 billion in remaining performance obligations, an increase of 66% year-over-year and 8% sequentially. As a reminder, RPO is primarily comprised of our commercial business as it does not take into account contracts with an initial term of less than 12 months and contractual obligations that fall beyond termination for convenience clauses, both of which are common in most of our government business. Turning to margin and expense, adjusted gross margin which excludes stockbased compensation expense was 84% for the quarter. Adjusted income from operations which excludes stockbased compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes was 601 million representing adjusted operating margin of 51%. Q3 adjusted expense was 581 million up 8% sequentially and 29% year-over-year primarily driven by our continued investment in AIP and technical hiring. We continue to expect expenses to increase in the fourth quarter as we remain committed to investing in the product pipeline and the most elite technical talent all while delivering on our goals of sustained gap profitability. Third quarter gap operating income was 393 million representing a 33% margin. Third quarter gap net income was 476 million representing a 40% margin. Third quarter stockbased compensation expense was 172 million and equity related employer payroll tax expense was 35 million. Third quarter gap earnings per share was 18. Third quarter adjusted earnings per share was 21 cents. Additionally, our combined revenue growth and adjusted operating margin accelerated to 114% in the third quarter, a 20 point increase to our rule of 40 score from the prior quarter and our ninth consecutive quarter of an expanding rule of 40 score. With the increase in our 2025 revenue and adjusted operating income guidance, we are now guiding to a rule of 40 score of 102% for the full year. Turning to our cash flow in the third quarter we generated 58 million in cash from operations and 540 million in adjusted free cash flow representing margins of 43% and 46% respectively. Additionally, we achieved 2 billion in trailing 12-month adjusted free cash flow for the first time. Through the end of the third quarter, we repurchased approximately 2.6 million shares as part of our share repurchase program. As of the end of the quarter, we have 880 million remaining of the original authorization. We ended the quarter with 6.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term US Treasury securities. Now turning to our outlook for Q4 2025, we expect revenue of between 1.327 and 1.331 billion and adjusted income from operations of between 695 and 699 million. For full year 2025, we are raising our revenue guidance to between 4.396 and 4.400 billion. We are raising our US commercial revenue guidance to in excess of 1.433 billion representing a growth rate of at least 104%. We are raising our adjusted income from operations guidance to between 2.151 and 2.155 billion. We are raising our adjusted free cash flow guidance to between 1.9 and 2.1 billion. And we continue to expect GAP operating income and net income in each quarter of this year. With that, I'll turn it over to Alex for a few remarks and then Anna will kick off the Q&A.
>> Uh, greetings. Um, by any normal or even reasonable standard, these are not normal uh, results. These are not even strong results. These aren't extraordinary results. These are arguably the best results that any software company has ever delivered. Um, and uh, and it's that's not hyperbolic. despite what your analyst friends may want you to believe because they've been wrong at every price. They're wrong on every at every single round. But of course, they're persuasive and it's they're not investing their own money. But um a a normal enterprise company should not have a rule of 40 above 100. A normal enterprise company at our base should not have over 100% US commercial growth. Should not have 77% growth in the US. uh and by the way that uh that growth is being held down by a stagnant Europe which is still a significant part of our business. So the pure uh unvarnished numbers are 77% growth off of a massive significant base with very significant cash flow with a company that throws off a rule of 40 of 114. And then I if this world was at all sane every single mo every single person in the financial world would stop and say how did this happen? How did a company which stand stood by the American war fighter uh marine special operators uh people in clandestine services who stood up for our right of free speech and was really the first company to be completely anti-woke. um uh how did this company stick up for the American war fighter uh actually give normal Americans venture quality results? So one of the issues we have with the arbiters of truth is it was the American worker that we supported and the American worker that we helped make rich and the arbiters of truth somehow did not participate in that because they were such experts and of course you know but what these numbers show is uh doing that and taking the American worker along with it and uh doing it in a way that foreshadowed the future FDA ontology foundry, making each specific institution, making the American war fighter fight the way the American war fighter is born to fight, empowering uh uh the the the tenants of being, you know, free and having the ability to do creative things uh in the battlefield context. Um and then uh taking uh enterprises instead of selling them commodity parasitic software with a massive sales force with a kind of lumbering uh jargonbearing leaders offering you stakes and dinners and other things we shall not mention. In order that you turn the value the high value uh uh revenue of your enterprise over to them in return for for these accolades. We created direct alignment with our customers. And what does that mean? It means when our customers have a unique and tribal way of doing something, whether it's underwriting or fighting or making workers even more valuable, we put an FDA, we orchestrate it in ontology. We take the tribal understanding of their business, the specific nature of their business that makes them particular and valuable and lethal, and we empower that. And how do we participate in that? Unlike seemingly in the most obvious way, we are downstream from the value creation. So when you see 141 or you see 77% or 63 and you ask and by the way with really a a workforce that is uh not growing in any way linearly proportional to that growth and also with a sales force which is declining which seems improbable. The reason why that's working uh is because we are making our clients more money or we're making them more dominant on the battlefield and they're paying us a subset of that. And and and and this is why these numbers are so extraordinary. The the sociological and political version of this should be wait a minute how can we learn from this? How can we implement institutions? By the way to you know we have all these people talking about an AI battle. I'll tell you what 114 proves. There is a massive part of the AI market that actually cares about value creation and that's the part we own and we own that part because to do this you have to have FD orchestration you have to have ontology and you have to have foundry and you have to have access to the game and you have to have deep understanding of how to do that and you have to have done this for a very very long time with products by the way and then the products are getting better and better and better and better and I'll let Shamp talk about what we're doing on the battlefield to the extent that he can but you see the very similar trajectory where we're giving America both in industry and in government a massive unfair advantage and and again you see it like if you look at our numbers look at how poorly Europe is doing look how well America is doing look how we're doing this and again it's not just topline the rule of 114 that we have shows topline and bottom line growth that is distinctive massive and unique and on top of everything else uh you know there is this issue in the that we're all focused on a panel here which is what access what portion of the GDP growth that we're blessed to have in this country meaning uh GDP growth uh defined or helped out and bolstered by a by AI what percentage of that is available to the American worker and so when we're we're you know AI uh GDP availability for the American worker meaning do they participate in this uh growth or is it just people around this table who are getting richer and richer And then you see our platform on the battlefield as Sean was mentioning the people doing the coding in AIP are vocationally trained smart Americans with specific knowledge they don't have and and actually uh and and you people on the factory floor very same thing people across the nation truck drivers uh anybody with specific domain expertise is more powerful more valuable in our product than they were yesterday. In fact, the real misalignment of AI is with people with commodity like hightrained elite institution general specialist. That's just not as valuable as it was. And yes, the you know the the the destructive positive destruction of capitalism is going to put that class of people typically the class of people that also is kind of skeptical of Palunteer under enormous pressure. But you know it is our what I see in these numbers and what I think we see in these numbers is you know to be put it slightly over the top. Yeah, we were right. You were wrong and we are going to go very very deep on our rightness because it is ex exceedingly good for America. It's exceedingly good for the American economy. It's as good for American workers. And you know what? I really enjoy turning on TV and seeing some analysts explain why some other company is better than ours simply because they didn't make any money on our company. and probably aren't. And that we're just going to keep going and going and going and then we're obviously not going to forecast for next year. But I would say if you're thinking about how this company is going to go, look at our ability to value create. Look at our ability to create revenue on the top end. Look at it. Let look at the unit economics of our business. If you're a technical expert in in how do you evaluate business, evaluate those numbers against any other business you've ever seen and then make your decision. But yeah, I'm wildly enthusiastic. I think we're wildly enthusiastic and um and thank you for uh those of you who stay stayed with us to enjoy these numbers, especially Palunteerians uh who work day and night to deliver these kind of numbers.
>> Thank you, Alex. We'll now turn to questions from our shareholders before opening up the call. We received a few questions asking, "What do you see as Palanteer's unique differentiator that others may not understand?"
>> Well, Alex mentioned a bit of this here. You know, it's become fashionable actually for lots of companies to start hiring FTEEs. The Financial Times had an article about how it's the most popular new job title. But what you see is that they don't really understand it. It's just mimemetic. And if you everything Alex said, like we build software that works, not software that ought to work. We built software for the world as it exists, not a world that never was. And this ability to find what's true that comes from the FDE. Our measure of success is not did we sell the software, it's did we solve the problem. And we have built an entire software stack over two decades downstream of creating value for our customers. That led to the ontology a decade ago, more than a decade ago, which is a fundamental prerequisite to getting value out of LLMs in the enterprise. And this past year, it led to AI hivebind and AIFD. The the other thing uh which like is implicit in that is the way we work puts us up forces us to go up the chain of complexity every day. So we're taking on the most painful, most integral, most valuable parts of the stack in every enterprise. And it's it's precisely because it like that's the way we actually lever our ability to deploy and orchestrate FDEEs. That's the way we make our product stronger. And quite frankly, that's the way we produce these numbers because the closer you are to the front line of the very complex problem that a black box was not meant to solve, cannot solve. And at this point, everyone knows a joke to believe it could solve, uh that's where you and by the way, it's the safest position for us because this company, we will always believe where we that we are outsiders. We need to be in the place where the most valuable problem is being solved because that's the way we end up staying solving the problem to tomorrow and the way we get paid.
>> Thank you both. Our next question is from Dan with Wedbush. Dan, please turn on your camera and then you'll receive a prompt to unmute your line. [Music] Mr. Dan Ives, we don't see you.
>> Hello.
>> Oh, there you are.
>> Yeah, great. Look, obviously another monster quarter for you guys. Congrats. Um, so my my my question for you is, you know, for Alex and team. What can you just walk through just the accelerated sales cycles that you're seeing from so many companies that have gone to the boot camps? Like what surprised you from when they come to you at that first sort of you know contact to now actually launching deals? I mean you know maybe you could talk about that just in terms of everything you're seeing anecdotally.
>> Great. Thanks Dan. So I think you know we look at US commercial we closed 1.3 billion in TCV that's 6x on a dollar weighted duration basis from what it was a year ago and of those deals 83 were worth a million or more 40 were 5 million or more 21 deals were $10 million or more I've been involved in a lot of those directly I'm feeling exactly what you're asking on the ground from customers and what's what's happening now is from the seuite across the company customers are coming to us looking to not just say let's do a use case the customers where we're having the impact are coming to us saying how do we deploy this across our entire organization how do we reorganize our entire organization around Palunteer and AIP and that's what's happening on the ground and we're singularly focused on delivering the value to the customers and that's our go to market how do we get the product to them and deliver the value
>> where Ryan is like really very much on the front line here is you know there's both how many customers approach you I think where we're seeing the biggest shift is the customers who've approached us very quickly want to move to how would I change my enterprise to express it in a way that's most valuable according to my terms in your product and then want to and literally want to reorg a shorthand version that we often use is you used to have to take your company private to change the the unit economics of it basically just like we're providing venture results high-end venture results to normal investors in the last couple years what we're doing actually in enterprises is providing a private equity-like transformation in the public art markets in the public space under the current leadership. And that's essentially what the our best and and by the way the other thing Ryan would tell you about is our newer clients have much higher expectations of us like they're like essentially I want to trans my transform my business. I want to do it in months. I want to do it in the public eye while being in the public market mostly not exclusively. And I want you to not only do the product side but also tell us how would you actually implement AI foundry ontology FD model and our tribal knowledge to do that and you know it's a completely different game. We used to have to beg and plead to be on like you know when we first started talking we were begging and pleading to be at the margin of a problem that could affect a subset of the business. By the way, Sham, you know, I don't it's like unfortunately he can only tell you 1% of what he's involved in, but this is like exactly the same in the US government around the world. It's like the things that we're sitting on and working on are like crazy crazy important and they're not downstream of the problem. They are the problem and we're reshaping them.
>> Thank you both. Our next question is from Mariana with Bank of America. Mariana, please turn on your camera and then you'll receive a prompt to unmute your line.
>> Afternoon everyone.
>> Hello.
>> So, I'm gonna do as usual a couple of questions. One on commercial, one on on defense or or government on commercial. I'd like to follow up to Dan's question and let's see if you can discuss what changed from a behavioral perspective from a customers perspective to see this accelerated appetite to incorporate Palunteer to not only accelerating how many customers you have but also the existing customers go to go up the value chain and what changed internally as well. We recently saw uh in a visit this like AI agents or AI FDAs like how are you incorporating tech internally to be able to accelerate and catch up with that demand and on the government side US government up 50% plus is really impressive and how do you think about opportunities like golden dome going forward piling up to this
>> well you guys want to answer these questions I think I think that there's the external one which is like what does it feel like that's clearly you the internal one is a really subtle question and I don't know anyone should jump in there and then obviously we have Sham opine on
>> yeah well do you want to start with commercial or
>> sure yeah I think uh on the external I think it's like going deeper and deeper and more and more like tangible results with customers where they're both there's a network effect incoming like customer sharing impact that we're having a direct impact we're having with customers customers are seeing as we you know it's a continuation of what we've been doing but going deeper and deeper with the customers on that impact and and I think that you know what we're seeing is more and more are now coming to us saying and the ones that are most impactful are coming to us saying let's do more
>> you know Ryan is our is our best at being a wonderful I'll just give a vulgar version here you know uh our clients realize that choices suck basically and they've tried a lot of stuff it hasn't worked and then we're in so many verticals we, you know, we're per say, let's just say we're in vertical 252 and we dominate for one customer. people see that and then they're like, "Oh, well, I'll try this with some I don't know, knockoff half fake thing, you know. It's just like, you know, and then a lot of people really still don't understand that are still trying to do this long migration where, you know, LLMs are going to perform as if they're LLMs and as if the LLMs were not a commodity and and then but then in the marketplace they see the final result of someone else using ontology, foundry, FDE, and now it's like, wait a minute, you know, I'm paying hundreds of millions of dollars and getting nothing. and the person down the road I kind of look down on is way ahead of me and their unit economics are transforming overnight and that just shifts the whole conversation because then we're like okay well if you want it to work you're going to have to do these five things and these things are like you're going to have to talk to Ryan and you're going to have to I don't know occasionally meet with me and you're going to have to actually allow us to come in with engineers and you're gonna we're going to have to actually work on the problems that are valuable for your business and also look at the costs that are dragging you down. By the way, the cost for most businesses is not just the actual money they're wasting. That money, wasted money creates an ecosystem of waste. They're talking to all these vendors all the time about all these things will never work instead of solving the problem. It's like and so getting the pathogens out of their business is is a real issue and now they're really really interested in this. And so and then on the internal front I would say you know um it's just we have to double down the most important thing for us internally is with all this success we do not want to give up the unique attributes of of Palenteer and somehow purchase um fake ways for us that are artificial for us. And so making sure we are very very close to the problem and making sure everyone here like if you heard our internal dialogue it's much more like who's on the factory floor here what are we doing internally how do we make sure our products are better and better how do we make sure say Sham you know who's a savant at going around and figuring out what the underlying tech issue is how do we making sure we have the best product team and the very very exact right fit for every single deployment across our deployments that we care about, especially mission deployments, which we highly, highly overvalue in terms of our time and energy, and like how do you make sure Palager says stays as tribal and cultist and unique as it was 20 years ago. How do we double and triple down on that? And how do we recruit the right people? And then internally, we have look, we power ICE, we power efforts to defend America and Ukraine uh and and with allies. We're on the front line of all adversaries, including visav China. um uh and um and we support we're on we're at ICE and we're uh we we've supported Israel. Okay, these are very controversial. I don't know why this is all controversial, but many people find that controversial. Okay, so how do you align people to focus on these things in a way that is actually beneficial for us and our clients? These are really hard and tricky issues that we spend a lot of time I would say as an overarching thing because what we found is the more we focus on our internal dynamics the better our numbers are. That's why we have less salespeople and we have 77% growth in 75% of our market. 121% growth in USCOM. Please tell that to some of your friends. I don't even understand how they can look at these numbers and not drop the the key out of their Motel 6 and just like say, you know, I mean, they're like they're bombastic numbers and but it's but it's like internal focus. I'll make the mistake of trying to follow Alex there and just say on the on the internal side with AFD, that's why we actually originally built it. You know, we our headcount has grown roughly 10% but revenue grew 63%. How are we doing that? you know, we've made our FDES wildly more productive and I mean, so much so that we decided to give it to our customers and we've started to make our customers more productive. When you have a note like the the Army Vantage note where the the Army's consolidating into the Army data platform, you now have an army literal army of green suitors who need to become proficient developers in the software. And you have a generation of green suitors whose first interaction with the software is going to be with AIFD. They're going to be superheroes on day one. Uh I think that's it's accelerating adoption is accelerating understanding like the depth of adoption. Not just are you using it but how much of it are you really using how much of it can you understand? Uh and then quickly on on your comment on the US government business like yeah the the number of opportunities out there are great. I can't comment on on all the opportunities you mentioned there but whether it's NGC2 the continued growth of Maven. I mean we have of course America's involved with three conflicts right now in the world from from Europe the Middle East and and in our own hemisphere right now. uh and and things are getting a little spicy in Africa.
>> By the way, let me say something slightly political and I'm not saying other people agree with this, but when people are attacking uh our soldiers for stopping fentanyl from coming to this country, I want people to remember if fentanyl was killing 60,000 Yale grads instead of 60,000 working-class people, we'd be dropping a nuclear bomb on whoever was sending it from South America. So I, you know, it's slightly like we in this in this at Palanteer, we are on the side of the American average American who sometimes gets screwed because all the empathy goes to elite people and none of it goes to the people are actually dying on our streets. And that's why, you know, it's like when you have an open border, it means that the average poor American earns less. I know my fellow progressives believe having an open border is going to make things, but that's because they're actually repping elite people instead of the working class. And the same thing in South America. We It's like, you know, to believe our constitution does not give us the right to stop 60,000 deaths a year of workingclass men and women is insane. And this company, this country is right to stop that. And I am very proud. I don't know all the efforts we're involved in, but the extent we're involved in these efforts, I and most Palunteerians are very proud of this. You're here.
>> Thank you, Alex. As always, we have a lot of individual investors on the line. Is there anything you'd like to say before the before we end the call?
>> We're rocking along. Um please turn on the conventional television and see how unhappy uh those that didn't invest in us are. Um uh enjoy get some popcorn. They're crying. Um we we are every day making this company better and we're doing it for this nation for allied countries and uh also for what and I I really like the term retail investors. How about sane people who put up their own money and fight for us? And by the way, you know, you are fighting for the right side of what should work in this country. Meritocracy, lethal technology visav adversaries, uh products that spread GDP to workingclass women, men and women by making their value creation higher, and by the way, your bank account. And thank you for that.
>> Thank you. That concludes Q&A for today's call. All right, that is the conclusion to Palunteer Q3 2025. You had a lot of energy coming in from the entire team especially with Dr. Karp and uh he obviously had a message to get across and I think he got it across. Let's start with you Amir your thoughts on the call. So, someone wrote in the chat like during I I I I think everyone uh know noticed this as well, but someone wrote uh I counted exactly 114 table banks throughout you know his opening speech. He was sitting and banging the the heck out of that table. No. Um uh well, we kind of predicted that nice question. Another boot camp conversion one uh wasn't really answered. Not not too important. I think the two the two biggest ones was of course to see okay what is happening with AFDs I mean it's it's been a topic for a while uh there have been some demos out out into the public some kind of you know there have been some some whisperings but you know they actually start to give us some kind of numbers like associated with it which is what what I love you know I always say this that people don't always understand you know where Palanteer is implemented they don't always understand the use cases at a specific But everyone understands time when they say that uh you know uh spawning an army to uh you know of a fds to transform a legacy data warehouse in 5 days that would have taken two years like everyone can understand that two years to five days that is pretty significant then also you know the the AI highmind the new capability there great overall you know the quarter really the business accelerated on like throughout every single segment like everything accelerated even even the weak ones as you mentioned like Europe was carried by Southeast Asia you know and um you know Korea and those markets um I also uh want to highlight um the last question there it just made me like picture Brent still just you know the the interview we we watched with the Jeff analyst just before when He said, "Um, yeah, turn on conventional TV and watch those who didn't invest into us cry." And then if you guys remember Brent Thiel's face, he kind of looked like he was about to cry. Like he looked pretty pissed off, you know, just sitting there on CNBC. Uh, it was magical. Uh, but I I let someone else give their initial thoughts before we dive into deeper. Uh, Arie, go ahead. Your thoughts. The thing that intrigued me the most is um seeing the evolution of FDS, the AI FDs that now empower from what we understand the FD themselves and then the clients. That is uh what really talks the language of shrinking time to the point where I was really wondering the other day. Imagine you are a parent, you you are called by a client how you can really show what you can do, what you can tackle very fast. And essentially they described that with this new product AI hive mind which is an aggregator to of Aifds or similar agents to tackle problems. I I would be very curious to learn more about this but seems so powerful if it is real that you can bring two years of work of a highly skilled FD in two days. It means that you can have almost 100x the interactions uh with your customers. So this that to me seems the the strongest hint of the entire call because it's one of those stuff that really affect the numbers of the company. We were saying before if you look at it from the eyes of um normal company when you see numbers like this you can start rationally thinking oh this is probably a peak then stuff would normalize. But if you start including these considerations of what is Aifd and then the management says look the way we are accelerating while also getting a lot of margin is thanks to AFD and then we are seeing an evolution of A IFDs thanks to this new product. What it these are the stuff that make me think okay we are at a peak in terms of numbers the peak is not the official peak like the there is enough substance for all this trend to keep rolling maybe it will not be always a 60% growth or so on but certainly it will be very very strong and if you can grow this strong while also having these margins it you always have ground for the evaluation.
>> Okay, Matt, your thoughts on the call?
>> Well, I think it was a phenomenal call. Um, I mean, who would have expected back in 2020 2021 that we'd be actually thinking that we'd get to four and a half billion or so in in revenue um in 2025. I mean, that's just uh where we're literally within a an arms reach away. Um, and yet here we are. I think everybody back then was laughing and um, I think it just goes to show that um, really Karp is excited and I think that there's even still more things to kind of come with with respect to a lot of contracts that are being worked on. Sham obviously is uh, is out running about doing all the conferences uh, going to the White House even. Um, I think we we've seen him, you know, making all these deals with a lot of these other companies. Uh, obviously showing up and saying they're going to pledge, you know, $50 billion deals to the White House and Seam sitting right there. Obviously, there's a plan um in the background that we're obviously not privy to that I think is yet to to truly come through. And I think a lot of that has to do with maybe what happened with Nvidia. You're starting to see that partnership come through. Maybe the Golden Dome stuff isn't going to come through. I still think there's just a lot of things with respect to opportunities that Palanteer has to enter and like you stated earlier, I mean, we're only at 911 total customers out of thousands upon thousands that uh can really benefit and I'm starting to see others really start to stall out like data bricks is really starting to stall out and several others. Um, Snowflake obviously we showed a great graphic with respect to revenue growth for them earlier. So, I think people really starting to recognize that what people said was a great technology and great software or great service that people were really hoping to to really revolutionize their business isn't showing up as once expected and is likely just throwing good money after bad, but you get good results with with Palunteer software. And I don't think that we've fully seen they stated something huge in there uh with respect to AIFT not necessarily being fully rolled out as of yet and and and some other uh key uh products that I don't think are fully rolled out as of yet but are probably in the trial mode. I'm very curious to see when those are officially rolled out and actually start to drive the bottom line what we can expect in terms of continued customer account growth. And it might not necessarily mean that you know revenue growth continues in the 60 70 80%. But you don't need much. I mean all you need is continued revenue growth from a uh a net dollar retention perspective and and that kind of provides a good floor for what your year-over-year revenue growth would be. So very curious to see what ends up happening. And um yeah, it's uh yeah, it's going to be interesting. I I also think there were some uh interesting comments regarding like uh the the current customers. So they mentioned that the top 20 customers uh I I did the calculations uh still 20 out of 911 customers account for 43% of revenues and they are accelerating like how much they're growing 20 like the top 20 customers account for almost half the business and they are now growing uh 38% year-over-year which is higher than the net dollar retention. So the most sticky like most like revenue highest value clients are growing higher than like uh uh the overall net dollar retention and then the question came up in in the call like well h how are you able to scale like this and uh there there was a I don't remember the exact quote but it was something along the lines of we own part of the AI market that cares about value creation.
>> Yeah. because there is so much hyperfocus on who can build out the most capex uh who can uh you know buy the most GPUs, who can you know uh build the next LM but he he put it like yeah no we own the whole part of the AI market that cares about value creation and that is like really powerful because he also mentioned we simply we create the value and then we get paid. a portion of that which is like how I always envision in my head like well how can Palunteer grow to like one trillion two trillion dollar market cap well when you are able to sell your product for basically any price as long as you're providing value like that that that is uh in in aggregate of that. So let's say that you you create a hundred billion dollars of value for a business. It is not like too weird to charge over a billion from that customer annually like just some you know bogus numbers to put an example. If you can create more value you can you can charge them more like it's not a fixed price. So I think um that dynamic is really really powerful for Palunteer. And he he also mentioned that like yeah we're kind of known now when people contact us and get in touch with us they have higher expectations than customers have had initially. They're like okay make my business amazing. That's like what what they say and then it's up to Palunteer to come in and be like okay this is how you're going to fix your business. Like imagine that he he also like talked about some dynamics about you know without having to go take your company private whatever. But essentially, you have your company, you're you're kind of starting to fail or your competitors doing better than you. You're like, "Hey, hey, Palanteer, come fix this for us." Like, imagine a scenario like that. It's just completely crazy to me. Consider how different it was uh three years ago when we saw Karp banging on the table but not because he was happy but because uh it was we know you need this stuff to survive. We know that in the future you will need this stuff ontology in Foundry even more and this was before AI and now we are at the point where customers reach them we are not interested in a use case we want to rebuild the entire company based on AI and uh stuff that I particularly appreciate is how credible Palanteer is that you can craft the financial metrics you want uh based on results. Look at Palanteer numbers they are perfect. So what they do actually works and you have the top clients in each industry now that leads the way and Karp says okay the customers now reach reach us because they look potential customers are they they reach us because they look what other companies using us do and they realize okay the alternatives suck. Yeah, I agree. I I I pretty much agree with everything you guys said. I thought Karp was very excited on the call and uh I think the reason he was excited was has nothing to do with the stock. Quite frankly, it had to do with the fact that this quarter was incredible and the stock will do whatever the stock does. I mean, again, it's at 202. A lot of us were covering this name below was $10. So, it's hard to have a lot of sympathy for the oh, it's not at 220. It's like, okay, that's fine. If that's the extent of your analysis, then then you can have that. But if you're actually holding this company for the next 10 years and you're looking at not the returns of the stock, which have been far beyond most stocks in the entire market, but actually looking at the results they put out, I mean, I would be as energetic as Karp as well if you're pulling up 14% rule of 40s, 77% US commercial growth, no debt, 6 and a half billion in cash, uh, and topline revenue growth of 63%. I mean, these numbers are just incredible. It's hard to critique the numbers. It's just, you know, the stock has a lot baked into the valuation already. So, you might not get an explosive move based on based on just these numbers, but the numbers are incredible. And so, I I think the biggest thing that Karp said in that call was that there is a philosophical macro trend around the war fighter and America. The last point he made I can't agree with even more, which is this idea of, you know, if 60,000 Yale graduates were dying because of fentinol, the United States would do something about it. So when you have the elite of the United States, we talked about this bifrocated economy, the elite of the United States, when they start suffering, that's when the United States starts to pay attention. But when you have average men and women that are working uh 9 to5, living paycheck to paycheck, when they're suffering, no one cares. And I think if you are betting on pound, you're betting on a company that's building software, not to replace those people, but to actually empower those people. And I think that's a really important point that Karp wanted to get through, telling people this is who you're investing in. this is why you're investing in the company and this is what the analysts, you know, have never fully understood as they've been trying to analyze this company. So, there you go. That's what we got on earnings. Again, the stock will do whatever the stock does. At the end of the day, this was an exceptional quarter. Lots of energy from Karp, Sham, and the team on that call. Uh, and they put up the numbers that quite frankly justify having that type of energy. Uh, we'll be back tomorrow. I'll be back later tonight at 9:30. I'm doing another podcast. So, I'll be live and we'll uh do some more discussions on what's going on in the world of tech. I think we might have a palenture weekly this Friday to recap the numbers. If we don't, then you know, we'll we'll eventually schedule a session where we all go deeper into the numbers. I'm sure we'll put them in our Excel sheets, but that's what we got. Any last words, Arie? Just wow. Amir.
>> Yeah, amazing. I I just wanted to highlight one one last quote that went under the radar a bit and that is that they mentioned that the military has taken decision to consolidate everything onto Vantage which basically means that the arm is like starting to align themselves and start to do everything on Palunteer and will replace and kill all the legacy systems. So for we we have some enthusiasts about you know um Palanteer government side you know goarp and and that game. So that's fantastic news as well.
>> Was my impression or from the comments Sham did in saying there are a lot of stuff we I can't talk about we can assume okay Sham is working on into some very big projects.
>> That's the impression I got.
>> I agree. Yeah, I think I think Golden Dome is going to be a big piece that is very undervalued that I don't think people are really paying attention to and I think that that will be billions of revenue alone for Palunteer if um and I don't think there's anybody else out there suited uh that that could handle something like that other than Palunteer. Um, so I'm sure obviously a large that's we're talking hundreds of billions of dollars that has to be spent by before the end of Trump's term if that goes through and a large portion of that would go to Palunteer. It's not just one company that's going to get that right. I mean, we're talking a multitude of companies that are going to have to partner with each other to be able to to make that successful. And last piece I'll say is, hey, the stock might drop, you know, in the short term. And I, you know, it's it is richly valued even with these new numbers. you're still talking about a PE between 200 and 300x if you kind of annualize out these numbers out for the next four quarters, not including any real growth. But what I will say is is just based off what we're seeing and the continued increase in margins in 10 years time. I mean, we're talking about a company that will continue to to be dominant and will likely be the most important enterprise company that uh that we have. And obviously it it plays a hu huge part in my values which is supporting the West and and helping silver Liberty. So I think uh to me it's a no-brainer. Um I'm going to continue to add uh every time I get a paycheck.
>> All right. I love it. Thank you everybody. I'll be on a little later tonight. Uh Amir, Aries and Matt's Twitter and YouTube's in the description. Appreciate everybody here and we'll be back again next time for pounder earnings. Thanks for having me.
>> Bye everybody. Have a good one.