Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
today
Let’s continue to talk about Chinese language education
In the previous episode
We summarized and analyzed
A certain profound commonality among Chinese language texts
That is
It objectively encourages a nostalgia for the state of childhood
Missing parents
Miss nature
Missing the rural society
That is, returning to the mother's womb
Return to that simple, innocent and simple state
This organizational principle of Chinese textbooks
In fact, it implies the respect for family authority.
To nature
The innocence of collectivism and rural society,
Simple Yearning
At the same time, there is also a discussion on cities and modern civilization
and the accompanying
Rejection of individual consciousness awakening
Although
It seems to appeal to some natural human instinct.
Real emotions
But if you think about it carefully, it's very strange
For example, Chinese texts and ancient poems
Always teach students to love their hometown
Love hometown
And hints at homesickness
The Chinese nation
A noble emotion for thousands of years
However, the homesickness of the ancient Chinese
It was rooted in the social structure of that era.
For example, in traditional China
A scholar wants to enter the official career
Often need his clan to provide financial,
Support from personal connections
The clan not only provided him with learning conditions
And share the glory after they become famous
He also wants to support the younger generations in the clan.
Therefore, their relationship with their hometown
It's more than just homesickness and nostalgia
It is bound to huge practical interests.
Under the system of family and country integration
He can't be with other people
Building a relationship stronger than a clan
Even if you are an official abroad
Clans are still at the core of their identity
Once they are excluded and attacked in official circles
Only his hometown can provide him with some kind of shelter.
It can be seen
Traditional Chinese homesickness
It is closely related to the imperial system and clan system.
It's not some kind of common human emotion.
for example
In European history
The awakening of the modern spirit
It is built on
Individuals want to escape from rural society
The shackles and fetters of collectivism
The only place that can provide this kind of freedom is the city.
Cities offer not only higher incomes and opportunities
It also provides a relatively open
and social norms of mobility
This is also true in contemporary China
Many students have never lived in rural society
But was asked
To love and miss
Something I have no experience with
You have to regard this as your own essence.
This is the reason behind this kind of emotional education.
The most twisted, unnatural thing
On the surface
Is to teach students to cherish their childhood and the womb
But it is not the childhood that the individual actually experienced.
It is filtered through ideology.
The templated
Idealized childhood
So we talked about this in the last video.
Chinese Education
Is it intentionally or unintentionally
Encouraging a certain kind of immature personality
That is to encourage retreat
Regression is a psychological concept
Refers to people facing stress and anxiety
Or when you are unable to cope with complex problems
Will return to a more primitive
Simple or low-level behavior or state of mind
For example, returning to the dependence and simplicity of childhood
To seek a sense of security
or try to simplify or idealize
Dealing with complex real-world problems
Today's video
Let’s dig further
This ideology encourages regression
How is it formed?
first
The reason why I think this question is very meaningful
Because in China
Many people are indeed deeply troubled by this ideology
That is
Using a childish standard to judge oneself
For example, they may think that they are pursuing independence and freedom.
Pursue establishing your own sense of boundaries
It is a manifestation of forgetfulness
For example, think that your pain
It's all because of being too obsessed with yourself
Too complicated, too many thoughts
Just remove distracting thoughts and eliminate desires
You can be calm
No more worries, no more anxiety
For example
Many Chinese people believe
Falling leaves return to their roots is the final destination of life
No matter how successful a person is outside
If you can't stay with your parents
Or you can't bring honor to your hometown
Can't find my roots
Then his life is meaningless.
His spirit has been in a state of wandering.
There is a hidden meaning here.
The family and hometown that gave birth to you and raised you
He has the power to judge your soul.
Only when people return to their roots
Back to the mother's womb
To achieve true peace
Chinese culture
There are a lot of stories, intentions and proverbs about finding roots.
For example, in the Tang Dynasty's "Autumn Residence on the Bashang"
There is a poem like this: "The fallen leaves of a foreign tree
"A person alone at night with a cold lamp"
It means that the author went to a foreign land alone.
It's lonely, cold, and lonely
It seems that once I return to my hometown
All psychological problems are cured.
For example
There is a Chinese saying
“A mother worries about her child even when he is thousands of miles away”
It also means that no matter how far the child goes
Between mother and hometown
There is an emotional bond that cannot be severed
This also implies a kind of pressure
A person's pursuit of freedom
It will make the mother anxious and painful
Images of homesickness, mother love, and return
It is absolutely mainstream in Chinese culture.
So if we say
Western culture is based on individual agency
So
Views of various schools of Chinese culture on the nature of human nature
It is always static
For example, there is a sentence in the Book of Rites:
Human beings are born quiet, which is the nature of heaven.
Being moved by things is the desire of sex.
This sentence means that
Human nature is quiet
Also without desire
It is the nature of the individual to tend to cancel
All the power and vitality
All movement is the result of external influences.
However
This seemingly natural philosophy
It is also very depressing and unnatural.
Because the natural tendency of the soul
Just want to break the shackles
Want to grow
Want to break the tranquility of a stagnant pool of water
Speaking of which
Some friends may ask
This culture of returning to the womb
After all, it is rooted in traditional society.
In modern and contemporary China
The traditional social structure has disintegrated
Why is this encouragement to regress and return to the womb
Haven’t they been fundamentally challenged or impacted?
My opinion is
With the modern times
China
Increasingly impacted by the wave of globalization and modernization
Traditional Confucian Ethics and Rural Society
Lost authority indeed.
However, since there is no hope of changing society
It is also due to the lack of knowledge and understanding of the West.
Intellectuals are in a state of confusion and anxiety
Start to try all kinds of treatments
final
Picked up something more conservative and backward
Trying to rely on these
To achieve overtaking and national rejuvenation
For example
Marxism in the Soviet Union
and the influence of nationalism
This culture of regression
again
Endowed with a certain modern and progressive meaning
Soviet Marxism
Emphasis on class struggle and the subjectivity of the proletariat
This is in line with traditional Chinese culture.
Nostalgia and praise for the hometown
For the Chinese Communists
Romanticizing farmers and the countryside
As Li Dazhao said in Youth and the Countryside:
There are many sins in the city
There is a lot of happiness in the countryside
Life in the city is almost entirely the life of ghosts
Rural life
It's all human activity
The nationalist narrative
It is convenient to integrate traditional Chinese culture
Reshaped as a tool to resist Western cultural invasion
and thereby build the legitimacy of the state
for example
We have quoted from the book Revolution and Counter-Revolution
The Kuomintang and the Communist Party
They all adopted a nationalist narrative
Calling on the public
At that time, China's disaster
Blame it all on foreign economic and political infiltration
Viewpoint
It does have almost universal appeal to young people.
therefore
When the Communists coined the word imperialism
them
He really holds the key to the minds of young people.
Anyway, we can see
Although the old mother's womb is lost
But the individual did not grow from it.
Instead, it fell into a new womb.
Symbols of leaders, party organizations, motherland, etc.
Replaced the traditional hometown and clan
The traditional Chinese nostalgia for the countryside
Replaced by patriotism and revolutionary collectivism
The kind of oppression caused by Chinese peasants
Underdeveloped awareness of rights
Glorified as selfless,
A manifestation of high revolutionary consciousness
In all these changes
The only constant is the praise for the lack of individual development
Therefore, although the Chinese ideology in the 20th century
Often in the name of "revolution" and "progress"
But its core is quite conservative and traditional
In fact, we can find
20th century left-wing intellectuals
There is a deep Oedipus complex
and separation anxiety
It can also be seen as a cultural regression
With the victory of the revolution
Their spiritual temperament
It gradually became
The mainstream and prominent schools of thought in China
Indoctrination through political and educational systems
This temperament has been successfully passed down to this day
This is reflected in the Chinese language education we see today.
Therefore we need
Tracing back on this
Here we take Wen Yiduo as an example
As a famous patriotic writer
Wen Yiduo's patriotic feelings and personal experience
It is very worthy of attention
In our September 29th issue
In the video about patriotism and pornography
Wen Yiduo's "Song of the Seven Sons" was mentioned.
In these seven poems
Wen Yiduo used anthropomorphic techniques
Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan, Weihaiwei
Guangzhou Bay, Jiulong Island, Lushun and Dalian
These seven territories China lost in modern times
Likened to the seven children taken away from the motherland
Here obviously
is to appeal to a
The orphan's attachment to and longing for his mother
To arouse the patriotic feelings of the Chinese people
and hatred of the West
It is necessary to talk about Wen Yiduo's experience here
Wen Yiduo studied in the United States from 1922 to 1925
It is not uncommon for international students to experience maladjustment
But Wen Yiduo's pessimism during his study abroad
Negative and negative emotions
And the nostalgia and imagination of the motherland
It seems to be getting to a point where it's not normal.
He just lived in Chicago for a week.
I hate the life here.
He himself cannot adapt to the new environment
Seeing other Chinese students
Adapted to America so well
Just scold them: Chinese people should act like Chinese people!
He described himself as a prisoner
Exile in the United States
In his poems, he compared himself to a lone goose and a lonely soul.
This lone goose "wandered to the remote border of the water country
Weeping about the endless sorrow"
The United States is the "territory of the goshawk"
The goshawk has "sharp straight claws"
Tearing the face of nature
Building a nest of wealth
He criticized the United States as a machine with only steel and iron bones
Drunk on the blood of the weak
Exhale the evil black smoke
There is not only a sense of separation anxiety from the motherland
Also with clear
Disgust with industrial civilization and capitalism
Suggesting these things are torn
The beauty, simplicity and kindness of nature
He once wrote a poem praising Tsinghua University:
That is, later Tsinghua University:
Thousands of people working hard here
Not like Western-style machinery
Big gear wrapped around small gear
Turning unconsciously
Spinning aimlessly
But only work for their ideals
For their ideals of four thousand years
The teachings of ancient saints
Work hard
This also implies that Westerners are mechanical.
Spiritless and thoughtless
The Chinese and Chinese culture
is more intelligent,
Smart, spiritual
He imagined Tsinghua School at that time
Can contribute to China's 4,000-year-old culture
A Showdown with the West
He imagined that Tsinghua's school flag could fly out of Hangu Pass.
Holding the soul of a saint
Pervading the West and the world
This looks
Much like a child's fantasy of a heroic victory
What he called the East-West Showdown
Appears very naive and emotional
A simplistic way of thinking full of binary oppositions
His understanding of Tsinghua and the Chinese people
It also has a utopian color that everyone is united in
It seems to him
The Chinese are of one mind.
No disagreement between
As long as we work together, we can defeat the West
He seems to have completely ignored the complexity of human beings
It also ignores the diversity of academic development
and the importance of individual differences
The most ironic thing is
Tsinghua University, which he had high hopes for
The Americans he hated
Established with the returned Boxer Indemnity
And the original intention of establishing this school
It is also to train students to study in the United States
He fantasizes
Tsinghua University adheres to the teachings of ancient sages and wise men for four thousand years.
But I can't see
Tsinghua's teaching system
From the beginning, it was deeply influenced by the West
In a school that is highly dependent on the West
Talk about flooding the West and fighting it out
This is so funny.
Wen Yiduo's Mental State
It also reflects that era
Chinese Intellectuals
When faced with the anxiety of modernization
The stress response
The simple, kind-hearted person they imagined,
Rural China, a united country
Completely out of touch with reality
In fact
China's traditional rural society
Not only is it not equal and harmonious
Instead, it is full of class contradictions,
Conflicts between officials and the people and between clans
Most farmers are in extreme poverty
However, left-wing intellectuals in the 20th century
But invariably
Rural China as an imagined community
To rebuild cultural identity
By resorting to some more extreme
and exaggerated nationalism
This is a cultural regression.
Another typical example
that is
We mentioned in this video on November 10th
Ai Qing's Story
Because deep in my heart
Suffering from loneliness and solitude
Ai Qing's obsession with his wet nurse
Developed an obsession with the party, the leader and the people
The Party’s propaganda of “serving the people wholeheartedly”
It just fits his projection needs.
Make him give up everything
Resistance and critical thinking
As we said before about the new socialists
In this video,
When faced with the impact of foreign civilizations on our own culture
The intellectuals finally picked up
The most conservative and traditional aspect of the culture
And tried to use this
To achieve a curve overtaking of Western society
The reason why they chose Marxism
An important reason
In the traditional culture of the country
Faced with serious challenges from Western culture
Loss of general recognition
Although Marxism also comes from Western countries
But it is a non-mainstream
Western culture that criticizes Western culture
This just fits the bill.
Intellectuals from Eastern Agricultural Countries
The psychological need to criticize the West
So they almost naturally
In Marxism
Elimination of factors that promote free individuality
And replace its core with the country's
Peasant Utopian Fantasy
Their idealism that seeks to transcend the world
But it is a traditional Chinese
The Resurrection of the Specter of Universalism
Describing one's own culture and spirit as a
A higher and newer existence than capitalism
This not only relieves anxiety
It can also affect Western society
Various social problems
Propose criticism and solutions
For example, criticizing the materialistic society in the West.
Consumerism, etc.
To provide moral legitimacy for themselves
This obsession and fascination with overtaking on the curve
It deeply attracted the Chinese intellectuals at that time.
However, cultural confidence based on regression
After all, it's not true confidence.
The womb they shaped
In the end, it inevitably devoured them.
That’s all for today’s video.
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
I also recommend you to look at the list in my
Other Videos
Thank you for watching
goodbye!