Okay. Uh well, just wait for another uh minute and then I'll start. Uh there's recording. So uh if you want to share this with your friend, uh you probably just joined from Maven the Lightning course, you can just share that and uh uh we'll upload the recording and you can access get access to the recording that way.
>> Yeah.
>> How is everyone? So, uh, let's like where let's type in chat where are you from? I found that to be like a interesting engagement and because we have uh a lot of stuff to cover and uh uh we have a large audience so uh I'll take uh questions at the end. Um, you can just type your question uh in chat or if you know how to do that there is a Q&A function and you can type your question over there or just leave in chat and then I'll try to uh I'll do my best to uh cover those questions. All right, let's start. Uh Riley, you can take over and uh start presenting.
>> Okay. Uh okay, let me Uh let me share my screen. Can you see it?
>> Yep. Yep.
>> Yep. Okay. So I know this uh webinar is about like my experience about going to hackathons. So today I'm going to share my experience of going to all these hackathons. They actually boils down to like five key key principles. So hopefully like um after this you will feel more confident going to different hackathons and you will like squeeze the most value of all the events that you go to. Uh okay. So a little bit about myself. Uh I I'm right now a monetization product at Fortnite Epic Games and this is al also my little Red Node. Um I post some things on Red Note too. I so my job is remote so I mostly stayed in Bay Area and you know like there's a lot of events going on Bay Area so I usually go to hackathons with my friends and all the different events. Yeah. Um is there anything else I should talk about myself
>> like why are you talking about uh successful hackathons? What is your achievements at different hackathons?
>> Yeah. Um I started going to hackathons maybe in 2023ish. Um, so I'm actually a pretty late starter on hackathons and um I think in total I've been winging maybe around like um 85k like credits plus cash. I just happened to find like I'm my wing rate of hackathon is like pretty high and I started posting like notes on retail and then I got a lot of questions. So um we think it's it might be a good idea do a webinar and share with like what I've learned in different hackathons
>> and uh most notably you won first place at two of the most competitive hackathons right the YC and open hackathon
>> yeah there was like a cognition hackathon cognition and winsf so we got the first place of that one that one is also have like the highest the like the biggest prize pool that one single-handedly contributed 64k um like credits and cash to my entire hackathon reward pool. Yeah, we also got another one um project is called Oreo in we actually got win kind of like two YC hackathon. The first one project is called Showya.ai. That one got the third prize uh the third place of the entire hackathon. in the another YC hackathon, our project Oreo got um the best use of convex and the best use of basel.
>> And uh in addition to the you know the winning and the credits and the cash, you also got beating time with Andrew Capathy CEO at Warell. Uh I don't know how to pronounce his name.
>> Yeah. Uh we got like um yeah it's it's interesting like not only do we get like cash and rewards we also got a lot of meaningful networking out of those things. For example in one one the first YC hackathon we got invited to launch with the wordware CTO and then uh we also like in the cognition hackathon we got invited to the cognition hacker house to have dinner with the entire team. Um and then in the third hackathon I think we got invited to a lot of convex events. Uh we got connected with the Verscell CEO. Uh we also got invited um to like a private chat with a YC partner.
>> Nice. Let's start.
>> Yeah. Okay. Um so here let me just do a little bit demo because this is I'm very proud of this project. It's a working demo. This is the project I was talking about that won the first place of um the wings surf and cognition hackathon. It's called over easy. So I will give this demo as in a very similar way that how we give this demo and the the final presentation in the hackathon. So you will have like if so for those who have never been to a hackathon you will have an idea of how um the final presentation at least what it looks like for us. So over easy is a a vibe hacking agent that we build to help people evaluate if they're viodated apps are um are secure or not. So all of things you can see are built in seven hours in the hackathon on the spot. Um and then after that we did a little bit deployment to make it a little better but I would say 95% is the same including that like killed killed animation. So to use this um you start a new test run you put in a website URL that you want to test. So here I just picked a lovable project um and then you follow the instructions. you would do some um activities on the website and in the end you can paste the logs here to help the agents um kind of like do its job. So for time purpose I'm not going to do the entire demo uh but I will show you like the result of some previous runs that we did. So you can see um so how this works is that we have a very simple agent that's going through all the APIs that you paste into it. It will just keep go through every API endpoint and see if it can find any loopholes and in the end it will summarize the results here. The UI is not perfect. We try our best. It's like a very short limited time. But you can see it finds some very high critical uh loopholes. first is anyone can read all private messages from all users. So if we go to the one of the network request um calls, you can see the results. It's actually like all the messages of the users from this um lovable app that was very popular a couple weeks ago. It says chat burn and finish. So it's supposed to destroy all the messages that you send, but it actually didn't. Uh you can see like people are saying all this weird stuff like on the website that they're not supposed to be exposed. So yeah, and then we also built like a share page to help people share this with um like other friends. You see like we run some examples there. So that's the example uh that's what over easy looks like for the um for our demo there. And now we can I guess um do you have any questions for the demo where I can talk a little bit more on like what are hackathons?
>> Let's talk about uh continue. I'll interrupt to you if you have
>> question. Sounds good. So I know um many people like you must have heard about hackathons. That's why you sign up for this um class and then you think it's very interesting but maybe not a lot of people have been to hackathons. So um I will introduce a little bit like what hackathons are. Um so it's actually a very interesting term like hack plus marathon. I believe it's born out of some internal events in Yahoo where like all the engineers get together like spend a lot of time non break to build some very challenging engineering task and as time went by it evolves into an event. Um in the early days it was mostly for students and they would go to this event build some project on the spot maybe like 48 hours non-stop and then uh the judges will compete the final results on like which project is the best and then after a few years like maybe since 2023 when CHP gets like really popular um there are a lot of AI tools that's like born out of nowhere there are a lot of companies start sponsoring more hackathons to try to encourage people build and try different AI tools. That's why I would say like after Tai GBD gets popular, we see more and more of this hackathons and it's also changed a little bit from like in the past it's more focused on engineering skill set more for students and now it's like more working people are participating in hackathons and it's not that um engineering focused anymore. Um yeah so which means like there's a lot of vibe coding things you don't have to really know a lot of coding to participate in hackathons and usually the way hackathon works is that um there will be a like a host um there will be a theme and then there will be a lot of sponsors the uh the sponsors will like put in money putting price and uh there are some requirements whether you have to use their tools or not and then for participants And uh people go in teams or you can go in solo and they have to build something in within like a certain time. It's usually like five to seven hours for a short one. Some of the hackathons can go like overnights like two days or even 3 days. So I'm talking mostly about in-person hackathons. Um yeah like virtual hackathons is like another thing. It's more like just like competition. So in person hackathons it's usually like people go in teams build something within certain time periods and you submit your project and the judges and the sponsors will judge that like on the spot and then reveal the results. Who are the winner? Um what are the winners of different tracks and that's like usually the event. Yeah. Um, so I'm gonna next I'm going to talk about like the I'm gonna go dive into the like everything that people are most interested about which is like the five key principles that I personally find very useful with like all the hackathons that I go to. So um I see hackathons like the backbone of a good hackathon project is just idea plus execution. So the first principle is about how to what is a good idea and how to get there. So people keep saying things like oh this is really cool this is like such a cool project. So what are the aspects of that makes a cool project? Um I think there are two aspect of that's making an idea really good. One is how useful it is. You can if you can make the judges or the audience look at this and their eyes light up and they say oh that's something I will use that actually solves my problem that's a very good standard of useful and the other aspect is about how different it is like how innovative it is. Did it did it use something new? Did it use some tools in a very like in a way that no one has used it before? Is it like um realization of a philosophical ideas that people thought about it but no one has actually built it? So our project showya was a good example. It was not very useful. It was using LM as complete interpreter. Um so there's no code. You use LM to understand every interaction the user did. So it's a highly philosophical experiment that we did. A lot of people have similar ideas but no one has ever built it. So when people go to hackathons they see this project they really like it. But it's not very useful because every time you click on the application it takes almost like one minute um to react and do something. And on the contrary, the over easy hacking agent that you just see is a very useful one because everyone is vibe coding the website. No one really knows how secure they are. So that's something when we show the demo, everyone is like, "Oh, that's such an interesting project. You should open it to public. Um, like I bet like my company will use it. Like I really need it." So there's like a two elements of a cool idea. I would say like in different hackathons people might focus on different things like sometimes you might find the judges and audience like the practical aspect of the idea more sometimes people are just looking for like really cool things they've never seen before. So, it's a little bit of a art and balance of like how do you want to balance this two things and there's also like some randomness like you never really know what a judge is like and you might never know what kind of good network it will get you by doing different ideas. So, how to get a good idea? It's not I would say like it's not easy. Um I a lot of times but my personal experiences brainstorming ideas on the spot doesn't really quite work. So usually all the ideas that's been working really well for us are the ideas we've been thinking a lot. For example, over easy is born out of the idea that was helping with my friend's um bibec coding agent and we're comparing the security level of all this different bi coding tool platform like base 44 lovable replet agent and then we found so many loopholes by manually doing things then I was like oh can we just build some agent that will help us to test the security of all this um websites so I don't have to manually do it and Then everyone really likes the idea. So we decided to build it out at a as a hackathon project. And the other one like the showya the philosophical LMS interpreter idea is also something my friend has been passionate. I've been thinking about it for weeks and so he really wants to try to build it out in a hackathon. So it's I would say it boils down to it's something that you experience daily and then you're trying to solve your problem like a daily problem you've been experiencing it thinking about it for a while or something you're very obsessed or passionate about like you really want to try and build it. Usually those ideas work pretty well. So but not like we don't really have those ideas all the time. like what if you just don't have those ideas? One way if you like if you don't go with ideas is totally fine too. Um when you're teaming up with people and you're like brainstorming, one very useful angle is to try to dig into their experience and ask questions about or do you have all this like everyday problems that you want to solve or do you have this thing that you're very obsessed or passionate about? Can we build something for for those two things? So, it's like digging into your teammates's personal experience. So, we we saw a project that was doing really well, which is um they have like a community school like a like I forgot what she works for, but she works for a community school. So, she keeps seeing all these people suffering from like not being able to um pick the courses in community school. So they built a little tool to help her students to better do that. It's not something that we usually experience every day, but it's like her everyday life and she is like very passionate about this topic. She knows all the user problem and their project end up doing pretty well. So that's how you can get the good idea either from your own personal experience or dig into other people's personal experience. Yeah. And then um the next part um is about execution. I talk about hackathon is about idea plus execution. You if you have a really good idea but you can't really build anything. That's not the point of hackathon. The hackathon is a little bit like a because it's like a marathon. It's a little bit like a sports. But something different is like for other sports you do the practice like like everything happened um before that competition but for hackathon a lot of things will have to happen on the spot. It's like um like a building thing. So you have to show something. It's one funny example is that in one of the um the hackathon final presentation there's a team doing something really cool but they don't actually have anything that they can demo. there's no visual, no demo, like nothing at all. They just have like this idea and this backend API that's kind of working. So like even if the idea is really good, the judges just like can't really give them a very high score or like a good result because that's not really presentable. So one strategy that I find really helpful is to always think about the demo. Like think about what do you want to show to people? Like everyone understands six or seven hours even two days are not enough to build a completely working product and so it's important to pick and choose your battle like how do you want to show this thing? What should this threeinut demo look like? Um after the user log in what should the user do and how do you want to like tell the story and emphasize your point. Um, for example, in the over easy demo, we like we when we thought about the what should the demo look like with we think that it should expose the vulnerabilities of the website that it's able to find. So, it's just as simple as that because you can have all kinds of different approaches to do a little hacking agent. But by think aligning on what a demo should look like, everyone is more targeted on, oh, do we need this front end? Do we need this page? Do we need this API? Then like everything is for that demo because in the end, even if the product didn't quite work by the end, if the demo works, it's like a working product to everyone. Yeah. And yeah, that's like the execution part. So the idea and the execution is like what makes a successful hackathon project. I personally don't really like slides for final presentation. I don't think I ever made any deck for final presentation. I'm always just go in with um a demo.
>> But you kind of stage the live demo, right? Yes.
>> Yes, we we definitely staged a little bit the demo like in like something might not work. So you practice the demo to make sure like the dummy data works, the flow works. It's it should be like a kind of like a performance of how the idea should look like. Yeah.
>> Nice.
>> Yep. Um so the the third point is like how to how do we make that idea plus execution combo work? So a lot of people ask me how do they find a teammate? Um, like I have the privilege of knowing a lot of really good people. Like they're my friends and I see hackathon as a way like I also I personally really like hang out with my friends by building projects. So it just happened to be a way that I hang out with all the all the people and the way I make new friends is also I will ask oh do you want to do a hackathon together? And so yeah, like um I would say it's like very interesting to do projects with your friends. You learn a lot. Like you also go through a lot of things. I really like it. But if you don't really have friends in real life that you can do it and you kind of have to find them on the spot, it's always like um like a crapshoot. Like you don't you don't really know what kind of people you would get. Um, so like like it's just like hard to always get the best people on the spot. I would if you want to win the hackathon, I would suggest like going people you kind of know already, especially like uh people should have different skill sets. I'm actually not um believer of like huge team like in all the winning hackathons our team usually just have like two people like me and plus my engineering friend. So my friend will work on all the engineering stuff and I will work on all the non-engineering stuff including um like like all the design you see like the egg thing like the animation there's also a lot of logistics there's like a lot of design how do we face the demo and including some networking with people and judges um so I got a lot of questions about people asking me oh I'm non-technical like what should I do in a hack hackathon like is that for me like if I don't know how to code can I go um the like the answer is for sure especially when AI is so popular you don't really need to know how to code to participate in a hackathon in fact I think a team I don't think a team can like at least for my personal uh opinion I don't know how well if two engineers are working on the same team I usually talk to people um a A lot of the frustration is that when you have two engineering two engineer work on the same codebase you spend the majority of your time resolving merging conflict and especially when time is so tight like if like any little thing doesn't work you spend too much time on like communicating. So if you have one really good engineer that usually works way better than if you have like two engineer try to work with each other unless you can divide and conquer the stuff really really well. So to make sure you can maximize everyone's productivity but for non-engineering people it's actually a lot easier like there are like so many things you can do um like people can think about the demo idea the user journey you can do design you can do like different art asset on the part uh you can talk to people you can even like interview other people on the hackathon to get some user feedback interview the judges But in the end I I think an ideal size is maybe like two to three people. Uh because the more people you have the more you need to put in like communication and dividing up the work. So it's not always like the more people the better but of course the more people you have you can have like spread them out in different area depending on how complicated your project is. But I think the it boils down to like if you are non-technical like it's totally fine like it's very fun to go into the hackathon because you actually get to have more fun meeting new people and engineering when engineering has to like always like heads down coding you can actually like do a lot of more stuff. Um yeah so I talk a little bit about networking. Um so like networking hackathon I think it's not a topic that people like talk about a lot but I find it like very very useful uh both for my personal goal which is to make more friends and like discover more interesting stuff happening in life and it's also about winning the hackathon. So for some so more let's be more utilitarian if you want to wing the um hackathon it's more like the judges will have the final say in in your final project and if the judges don't get a lot of time like they don't like there are so many project the over easy one had like 100 I think the YC one always have maybe like 200 projects at the same time the judges just don't get that much time understanding your project or Like maybe you have a lot of really great ideas, but it's just hard to say everything in the 3 minutes demo and what if your demo doesn't work? So, there's a lot of things going on. If you can get any time talking to the judges during the hackathon um get their feedback on your project, get their advice like it's it's a great way to kind of get more um exposure for yourself and also for the judges to understand your project more in case India maybe they don't even get to see your project in the final judging because they always like spread it out. Sorry question like are they at the hackathon or do they just come at the end to uh to the judge and are they allowed to talk to participants?
>> Yeah. So um for all the hackathons I went to only one very weird structured hackathon said oh we don't want you to talk to the judge because it's not fair. But most of the time the sponsors and judges uh especially the sponsors which are also the judges at the same time they are there to talk to all the participants. So um in that case like everyone is encouraged to talk to them to learn about their company to ask questions about how to use their company tool in your project. So I would say like it's mostly encouraged to talk to them and um yeah that's for like utilitarian reason and but another thing I also find it's just like very interesting to talk to them. You can talk to judges and sponsors. You can talk to your fellow other hackers. Maybe when you're getting food, when you're getting drinks, just asking, "Oh, what are you building here?" Um, like you will miss I met a lot of my really good friends during hackathon. And it's like it's very hard to meet new friends. I will say like these days and you don't really have you don't always have something like interesting you can talk about. But in hackathon, everyone is here to try to build something. Everyone is willing to talk about what I'm here for, what I'm building, what do I work on when I'm not doing hackathon. So, people are more open-minded to make new friends. So, yeah, it's like a great opportunity to just meet a lot of friends.
>> It's like new student orientation.
>> Yes. Yes. Yeah. Totally. And people that are doing hackathons are kind of like that too. They also want to meet new friends. I would say most people do. Yeah. Yep. So that's networking. Um, so the last point is about like how to deal with not waiting. I think it's also the like it's it's a cliche but it's like one of the most important thing for doing hackathons because if you cannot deal with not winning it's actually very hard to start doing hackathons and then or like to keep doing hackathons. I think I it's like I also learned this through like all my experiences of doing other hackathons that didn't really win end up winning. Um I I think for myself one of the biggest learning that I know is that like a lot of the things I would I'm doing is not going to work and I have to know that like I have to be okay with things not working. And so when I first start doing hackathon, if I didn't win, I would feel really bad. I feel like, oh, I'm not good. I'm not as good as other people. But as I do more, I realized there's such a randomness in all these hackathons. Maybe someone, for example, I talked about our highly philosophical LMS interpreter project, Showya. I really like that project but that project only got the third place in the first uh YC hackathon. I think because that YC partner didn't like the idea. She wants more practical idea that she can actually invest or she would use. But we got such good network result out of that project because the word where people really like it. it aligns with their philosophy. And yeah, like it just like it's like it's a lot of randomness. Like if you didn't win, it doesn't really mean your project is not good. It could just be like the judges that would have liked your project a lot more didn't get to see it. And the fun is in the entire process of like doing it with friends, meeting new people, testing out different ideas, and not winning. it's just like one result um of out of that and I I also learned how to deal with like the failures before I will think like every failure is like a it's like a like a smear on my very pretty journey like my journey should be perfect like everything should look great but then as I fail more and more I I cherish all these failures even more I feel like if I fail that means I'm like trying hard enough. That's my way of feeling more secure with my life. If I don't fail enough, I actually feel a little bit uncomfortable. That means I'm not trying enough things. I'm not actually reaching my full potential. So, every little failure is not that negative anymore. And that actually also um like that's something that keeps motivating me to go to hackathon. Of course, I'm not waiting everyone. If I get really discouraged from not winning one of them, it's very hard to keep going. Yeah. So, yeah, I think that's the five key principles I have for going to hackathons.
>> Nice. Thank you. And uh let's go to question and answers. I think you actually answer a lot of questions in chat. For example, how to recruit a team like how to distribute work and what motivates you to join hackathon, right? You just mentioned all of that. I think one question from Shai is uh uh like how to balance ideas like do you have to kind of please the judge? Do you go do you have to sacrifice usefulness in order for like uh ideas that attract more attention? Like do you think like have you ever abandoned an idea that you feel like is useful but may not win a hackathon?
>> Yeah, like I would say that's a very good problem to have. If you have to like balance between ideas, that means you have many many good ideas. Um I like it's not a very common problem to me, but I have a little list of whenever I think about something that could be a good hackathon project, I put that in in the little list. But um I also have this discussion with my friend like which idea we should do. I find the most rewarding thing is always to do something that you really want to build. Um if because in the end if we talk about like how random it is to win the hackathon if and it's always like if you want to build if you build something you think people will like it then it should be something you really want to build too. If it it's not the thing that you really want, it's hard to assume that other people will really want that. And in the end, if it doesn't wing, if it's something that you really want to do, you will not feel like it's a waste of time too. Yeah. Like I would say just build something that's like very close to your heart and you are very passionate about is the most important thing and that that is usually a very good project and that will like touch a lot of people too
>> or at least if you try to just please the judge you get nothing right often that you don't win that way.
>> Yeah. Like you should please yourself and the judge. If something that you think will please the judge but it doesn't really please you. doubt that will actually please the judges too.
>> Cool. Uh a question from Balo. How many times have you tried and what is the first win looks like for you? I guess how many times you tried before you winning the first hackathon?
>> Um I think I got very lucky. Um the my first hackathon like I win it's like a crypto hackathon. They have a lot of um cash reward. I won like 16k out of that hackathon with my friends. So that was I was lucky. That was my first hackathon, but after that I definitely went to some hackathons I didn't win. Um like I was I I forgot like how many times but there are a lot of times I end up with nothing and going back home.
>> Yeah.
>> How many hackathons have you been to?
>> I didn't really count but maybe around like 10ish like 12 13.
>> I see. Uh one question from now and maybe we can ask one more and then uh close it. Uh so uh leave your question uh in the chat if you want to. So the question from now is uh what do you think has contributed most to your win wins in multiple hackathon?
>> I guess the question is like for any single one is idea plus execution but if you can win multiple one then what? Yeah, I think it's like um I will say because like it's a lot of factors coming into play, but I think it's because because execution is kind of a given if you pick the right person like you know how to work together. They have like certain engineering skills. So that's not really the factor for me. So I would say um I think the most important part part for my hackathon wins are the ideas like if I pay a lot of attention to the daily problems or other people's daily problems I I often end up with really good ideas and then we can just um maneuver the demo to make it look good and then in the end it's like a good hackathon project. So I think like observing what could be like what could please everyone in everyday life and turning into a hackathon project is pretty important
>> I guess product sense.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> So I love both questions that are coming up but we can only pick one. So I'll let you pick one. The first is during your hackathon projects, have you ever encountered an area of knowledge or skill that you initially initially lacked but realized was critical to our goal? And then if so, how did you quickly get up to speed and apply the new knowledge? The second question is after all the hackathons accumulated, do you have a list of toolkits that you leverage the most? The first is how to overcome information or knowledge gap. The second is the list of tokus.
>> Um I think the first one is pretty interesting because I definitely learned a lot of things in the hackathon too. Um and I think like learning by doing is such a cliche but it's it's real. So um because I I told you like my friend is usually engineering and I'm responsible for all the non-engineering stuff. I need to learn like design like how to do design, how to do product, how to do user journey, like a lot of things. How to network. Um I learned a lot of different things when I'm doing it. I I think okay I think the most useful thing for me is just to talk to trigger or like any AI. I think um Eugene you like you and Yagu also had like a um episode about how to ask HGBT how to
>> yeah for all these questions um it will give you a very good even above average answer for different things and then you can keep building on top of that. So I think a lot of things even like rocket science you can learn it like step by step a lot of things are not as difficult as you will think. For example, um I was I really wanted to do a very cute animation of like the little egg doing doing things and then but I'm no I'm not a designer. I don't really know how to do that. Then I started like pulling random pictures and feed it into CHBT and ask it to give me like cute egg and I use a V3 to build that video animation and then sometimes it doesn't work. So I try different things. I give it like all the elements and ask it to do a video or not giving anything like I just try different things and you will realize some some things are working. So the good things with AI is that it has so many information um in the LM that it will give you average answer and the tools also make everything way easier than before. Like you don't really have to be a designer to build something that's very cute or you don't have to be an animator to actually build a good animation.
>> Cool. Let's go to the next slide and I'll do my two minutes uh pitch. So a lot of principles you just uh mentioned like for example trying learning from mistakes and asking the right question uh iterate right those are the key skills in the era of AI and how to leverage the most out of these AI tools. So our course build it with AI is kind of on this principle I'll show you what's possible with AI and how to get there and not only through the success the successful demos but also the guided mistakes and we'll build things together with a lot of prototype and then I'll show you what works and how to get over that then what doesn't work and then how to unblock yourself and uh it's a very hands-on course and we show you principles as well like a lot of principles holds true hold true like uh uh during this uh rapid development of AI which is not common like uh we teach you principles from a year ago. This is our 10th cohort and if you look at our first cohort uh for example we do not teach RA and now it turns out RG is not the best way to do things. Uh so that is the course and our next cohort is November 3rd. I also dropped a link of the community. So in the community you can have discussions and ask lifetime uh question questions Q&A uh we'll answer our question if you uh register uh by the course you'll get access to the community but you can also get into the community for free uh you just follow the like we I I don't want to just say you know how to get into the community but there is a way to get into the community for free and I invite Ry to answer a question if you have question for her like for example the kid uh that uh she leveraged the most. All right, thank you for coming to this uh lettering course and uh have a happy weekend.
>> Bye.
>> Thank you, Riley.
>> Thank you everyone. Bye.