Social media is the perfect recipe for kids to become addicted to their smartphones [music] because it's hijacking a normal part of human development. Literally, thousands of engineers for social media companies, it is their job to make social media as addictive [music] as possible because the profit model is to profit off of users time, attention, [music] and data. And so, the user is the profit. My name is Claire Morurell. I'm a fellow at [music] the Ethics and Public Policy Center and my new book is The Tech Exit, a practical guide to freeing kids and teens from smartphones.
>> Chapter one. Smartphones are hurting our children. Childhood has changed from smartphones and social media because now children instead of playing outside, riding their bikes, spending time with their family in person, are often scrolling in their rooms on their beds alone with a screen. The appeal of social media held out to us was that we can be more connected with people than ever. And yet, they're not spending time with their friends in person. The amount of time spent in person has decreased. And this kind of picture of childhood today is a silent school bus, a silent school hallway. Kids are not laughing and making jokes and and kind of rousing each other up on the school bus. Instead, their heads are hunched over a phone scrolling silently. And even while they're with each other, they're not talking to each other. And so, this is just a picture of what childhood looks like. These phones have really flattened childhood and flattened the purpose of childhood because the message that the technology itself sends to kids. Not about the content on the screen, but the medium of these technologies themselves send the message that life is for constant entertainment and amusement. And it's an inherently self-focused technology. And so that's why we see kids hunched over these devices scrolling their time away instead of interacting with each other in person. And as we know, humans, we're social creatures. We're made for relationships with other people. And so that's why we do see this this epidemic of loneliness, anxiety, depression among kids today because they're they're missing out on those real life interactions and those real life experiences that give a sense of satisfaction and fulfillment. Social media is the perfect recipe for kids to become addicted to their smartphones because it's hijacking a normal part of human development. So between the ages of 10 to 12, our brains as humans become more wired for what we call social rewards, which is a natural part of development. It actually helps children start to turn outward from their immediate family unit to really value the approval and feedback of their peers and other people. And it's it's supposed to help us form relationships with friends, with our communities. But this sensitive period of brain development where literally the dopamine receptors in our reward pathways are multiplying is being completely hijacked by social media. Because now social media is providing these artificially high bursts of dopamine and making children increasingly sensitive to the kinds of social rewards that social media delivers. And what happens is that initial burst of dopamine provides pleasure, but immediately afterwards, your brain goes into a dopamine deficit. It actually crashes below your baseline of pleasure. And so it incentivizes you to do that thing again. And so instead of disconnecting and lifting up their eyes to the real world, they are just chasing constantly after the next dopamine high sucked into their devices. And so kids then are chasing likes and followers on social media because they want that next hit of dopamine or that next video. And so then when they leave the offline world, they go into this dopamine deficit state. And what happens is addiction scientists explain this is called desensitization where the brain gets used to this high level of dopamine and that to maintain kind of homeostasis in the brain, it goes into a dopamine deficit state. And what then happens is children don't experience pleasure from the real world. The kind of natural rewards of life don't feel pleasurable to them. Instead, they crave going back online for that next hit of dopamine. And it will never be enough. Dopamine doesn't produce lasting satisfaction. It just produces craving. And so scientists are studying then the effects of social media on developing brains. a study out of the University of North Carolina in 2023. It measured sixth and seventh graders who were frequent checkers of social media, their brain development over time. And what they found was that those kids' brains actually became extra sensitive, overly sensitive in the reward pathways of the brain to the kinds of rewards that social media delivers, making them increasingly sensitive, wanting to continue to seek those types of rewards more than children who didn't habitually check social media. Their brain kind of after this peak of kind of social rewards return to a normal level. And so it actually is changing children's brains. This sensitive period of development where we're starting to become more wired for social rewards is being hijacked by the social media features and they actually experience less pleasure from the real life rewards that we were made to experience pleasure from. literally thousands of engineers for social media companies. It is their job to make social media as addictive as possible because the profit model is to profit off of users time, attention, and data. And so the user is the profit and the more time and attention and data we spend on their platforms, the more money they make because they're selling that to advertisers. And so what I try to explain in the book is that social media is inherently addictive. All of the features are meant to make us experience that craving for more things like variable rewards, which is is like a slot machine, right? Like you're not sure if you're going to win or not every time you play. And actually that variable rewards makes it extremely addicting. And the same is true of social media. You're not sure if you're going to get a new like or a new follower when you next go back on to the the platform. And so they designed these features. They've attached metrics to our relationships. It's all in the online world about how many likes your post gets or how many followers you have. All of those features are extremely addictive as as I mentioned to that the social reward way that our brains are wired. We we experience that burst of pleasure when we get approval from our peers when we get social feedback and that's now being monetized on social media. So it's it's not a ma a matter of us having willpower. It is literally meant to hijack our human brain vulnerabilities that we're wired for these social rewards that are on steroids on social media. And on on the part of willpower, particularly for children's brains, the part of our brains responsible for our impulse control, our self-control, emotional regulation is our prefrontal cortex. It's not fully developed until age 25. And so it's actually very difficult for a child to self-regulate their use. They're always going to want to be on it more. And so one scientist explained a child's brain on social media is like all gas with no breaks because they're always going to want more. And there's no kind of self-regulation developed yet in the brain. And in fact, the use of social media stunts that development. More neuroscience research is coming out to show that kids who are spending a lot of time on interactive screens have more sensitive reward pathways of the brain, but they actually have underdeveloped prefrontal cortex. And the connections between the cortex and the reward center, that part that is supposed to help us put on the brakes, is underdeveloped. There's actually less neural connections between those parts of the brain in people who are heavy users of screens or social media. And so actually the using of social media itself stunts our brain's ability to develop that self-control and regulation. Imagine if there was a drug that children were taking all the time that were producing these effects, making them disconnected from their families, making them constantly crave it, go into this hyperactive state when they're on it. I think any parent would say there's no way that you're taking that drug. But why has the smartphone and these social media platforms been so socially acceptable to us despite over the last several years continuing to see the negative effects on our kids and teens? Like what is happening? Why are we not able to kind of wake up to this epidemic? I would just hypothesize. I think part of the challenge is that these technologies do serve some type of function for parents. They feel like, well, my child can stay in touch with me on the smartphone. It's also become the way that children socialize. And so, individual parents feel it's extremely difficult to opt out because this is how the kids talk to each other these days. Even parents, when I've tried to explain, well, just give them a dumb phone with texting. They say they're actually socializing and messaging each other through the social media platforms. And so I think the the goods that these have held out of trying to connect us to other people being tools for communication have made it difficult for us to disentangle that from the really harmful effects that we're seeing. And I think again as social creatures it's hard for us to resist peer pressure. And when we see everyone else is giving this to their kids even if in the back of our heads we're like this doesn't seem good for them. The fact that everyone else is doing it makes us feel like, okay, it must not be that bad or it must be okay or I don't want to be the parent that has to opt out and make my kid left out from these social settings. And so I think the particular challenge with smartphones and social media is that because they're now how kids socialize today, their effects are not just individual the way taking a harmful drug would be, but there are actually network group level dynamics to these technologies that individual parents find difficult to resist on their own. Even being knowledgeable of the harms, they feel pressured into it. And almost every I mean basically every parent I have spoken with if you ask them why they gave their child a smartphone, it's usually well I wanted something to stay in touch with them to make sure they were safe and every other kid in their class had one. I didn't want my child to be left out. I want my kid to have friends. And then the last reason I often hear is I don't want my child to be unprepared for this digital age. I want them to know how to navigate technology. I want them to have tech skills. I want them to be able to thrive in a technological internet connected age, which are totally legitimate reasons. But I think that's the challenge is that parents do have these reasons for giving a smartphone that it can be hard to separate from saying, "Wait a second, what are these phones actually doing to our kids? Are these great costs that they're bearing worth the potential benefits? And is there a better way? Is there another alternative?" And that's what my book tries to hold out to parents. I want to show you that there's a better way that you can exit these technologies and give your child a healthy, flourishing childhood. And that on the other side of exiting technology is the life that you truly want for your child. So, I've spent the last several years working in the technology policy space trying to help pass better laws to protect our kids online. But I would frequently in my policy work speak to audiences of parents and they would approach me afterwards and say, "All the all the laws you're proposing sound great, but I'm on the front lines. Like, I can't wait for Congress to pass these laws or for my state to take up this type of bill. What can I do from your research? What would you recommend that I do?" And my research had convinced me that the harms were so great that I was not going to give smartphones and social media to my own children. And I shared that with them. But I also recognized my my children are young. They're all under the age of five. And these parents shared the very real pressures that they faced in the teen years and and were really looking for resources for how to navigate this and was there a resource out there explaining how you can actually not give smartphones and social media to your kids, but but how to successfully do that. So, I started scouring really every book on technology and parenting I could find and I found them all deeply unsatisfying. They were actually pretty accurate in describing the harms um from what I had seen in my own research. But then the solutions they held out to parents fell far short of the level of harms. Things like set time limits, put parental controls in place, talk to your kids about the dangers. All of which, you know, sound like okay, that that could be helpful. But what my research had shown me was that the screen time limits were no match for the addictive design of these technologies. The challenge with screen time limits is that the time limit on the device does not map on to a child's mental or emotional time spent in the app. That kids carry the virtual world with them long after they leave it. Constantly wondering who's liked my post? What new followers have I gotten? Or even what's happening? What are my friends saying to each other on social media while I'm not there? And it creates the de design of these technologies creates this constant craving that they feel great. They feel these bursts of pleasure while they're on the app for even those 30 minutes. And as soon as they leave it, it crashes and they constantly crave going back on that in their brain and physiologically it induces this craving that affects their behavior and their mood, their attitude, their emotions the rest of the day even when they're not on the app. And so the time limits just are no match for the addictive design and the compulsive behavior that these apps induce in a child. I spent so much of my time just studying how much the parental controls fell short of being able to really protect kids from dangerous content or from predators online. All the loopholes, all the difficulties with the setting staying in place, the bugs. And so I recognized that really we needed a resource to show parents that you actually don't need to give smartphones and social media to your kids that a smartphone free childhood is possible. And I wanted to prove that it was possible. So I had the hypothesis that a smartphone free childhood is necessary but I could not find a book saying that and I couldn't find a book showing parents how to do that. And so that is why I set out to write this book, The Tech Exit, to both explain why a smartphone-free childhood is necessary, but more than anything, I wanted to show parents it was possible, that other families had successfully done this and their families were flourishing and their children were thriving. And so that led me on the path to dozens of interviews with these families, and I'd heard of hundreds more to find out how they had done this. how had they navigated the challenges of the teen years or dealt with the pressures towards a smartphone successfully and so I could offer those practical steps and that advice to other families and parents. The conclusion I came to in writing this book was that not only is the tech exit possible, but it's fundamentally positive. That all these families who said no to tech were saying yes to so much more in life, to so many real world experiences, real life relationships for their kids that were truly setting their children up to flourish and succeed both in childhood and as adults. And after interviewing these families, I became convinced that this is the best possible thing we could do for our kids. A study found that the younger the age of first smartphone, the worse the mental health as a young adult. And so they they actually longitudinally studied over time and children who got a smartphone younger between ages 8 to 10 struggled with more mental health challenges as young adults between 18 to 25. And actually the most significant mental health challenge, what decreased the most with older age of smartphone was suicidality. So the older a child got a smartphone, the less likely they were to struggle with suicidal thoughts as young adults. And so there is a correlation between when a child gets a smartphone and how that sets them up for flourishing even into their young adulthood uh particularly with mental health. So I think the safety concern obviously that's parents number one goal. They want to keep their children safe. But I think the problem is with smartphones is that we haven't surfaced the hidden costs to child safety by handing them a smartphone. That giving them a smartphone actually gives bad actors, predators, dangerous content easy access to our children. And while they're sitting in our living room on a smartphone, actually complete strangers online have incredible access to our kids in ways it's very difficult for parents to effectively oversee or completely shut down. And so I try to explain that I think this concept of safety that actually children are made less safe by handing them a smartphone with all these portals to the internet where predators can reach them inside your home and because of the challenges we mentioned to their mental health and development. These are actually greater threats to our kids safety and well-being and that there are other ways for parents to stay in touch with their children without handing them a supercomput in their pocket 24/7. And so I talk about the alternative phone options available now. I often recommend to parents instead of a smartphone getting a child a dumb phone. And a dumb phone just means a phone that can call or text that that functions as a phone was originally meant to function. There are phones like the Gab phone, the Bark phone, Wise phone, allowing a child to call or text. Even some of them have tools like GPS for when a child starts driving and you want to make sure they're safe. but without the internet, social media, addictive games that make the phone an addictive device instead of truly a tool for communication. And so these alternative phones offer parents that ability to be in touch with their child to keep them safe, but without actually handing them a really dangerous portal to the internet that will make them less safe. And I will also just add a lot of these families said they delayed the age of first cell phone as long as possible because they recognized their kids could borrow the phone at school. They could borrow a friend's parents' phone to get in touch with them. They were trying to really delay the age of their child having a personal device on them all the time that even a dumb phone can still be very compelling for a child to check constantly. But then when they opted for a cell phone because now a child has more independence of movement, they're driving, they opted again for these non-s smartphone alternatives that still allowed them to keep their child safe without introducing all these other dangers. The fear of a child not having friends or being socially isolated is a very real concern. And what I will say is just three things I found from parents. The first was that their decision to not give smartphones and social media they said was actually very friend filtering for their kids. Their kids found their real friends faster because even if a friend had a smartphone or social media, a true friend was actually really willing to accommodate their child's difference. They would find ways to get in touch with them even if they weren't on the Snapchat app. And so one dad explained to me, "Honestly, our decisions around not giving our kids tech helped our kids find their real friends faster because if a friend wasn't going to reach out to them because they weren't on Snapchat, that's not a great friend." The second thing is it took more intentionality on the parents' part to help children build a social life. I think it is important. Children do need friends. And so what that looked like in a lot of these families was trying to help their children spend time with friends in real life. One mom said, "You know, they had a great friend that was 15 minutes away from our house, but it it was a important friendship to my child. They also weren't on a smartphone, and so I would spend the time driving my kid to their house to have them get time together." And so, I think it is important to recognize saying no to tech will take more intentionality on the part of parents to help a child build a social life, but it will be very, very beneficial to kids to have those real life friendships. Um because I think the irony is okay I don't want my child to be left out. I'll give them a smartphone. They may be more connected to their peers through the smartphone, but the depth of friendship is extremely shallow. These kids are lonely um online because again they're not getting oxytocin through a screen. And this is a hormone that bonds us with people in real life. It's released through eye contact and physical touch and forms deep bonds of trust and friendship. And so these kids who are off social media are actually spending time with their friends in real life, forming deep friendships, much deeper and higher quality friendships than the kids who are all connected online. And the last thing I'll say is these parents said just finding one or two other families to opt out of smartphones and social media with them really helped provide their kids with other friends who also weren't on the devices. So, not everyone had to share their tech restrictions and their child's class or their team. But just finding one or two other parents who were willing to also opt out of smartphones and social media made a huge difference because their child had a few friends who also weren't on the apps and then they as parents felt like they had allies in the trenches making these decisions with them, helping them navigate the challenges. So, in response to parents who don't want their children to be behind in this technological age, I will just say that the smartphone and social media do not equal computer skills. They actually are not teaching children how to use the internet or the computer as a tool. They really just teach children how to scroll and jump between content and suck children into an immersive, addictive environment. And so these families I spoke with, while they didn't give their kids smartphones and social media, they allowed them access to a computer in the home. They allowed them access to use the internet as a tool. They used it publicly and purposefully. And so some of these families, you know, a a child was really interested in computer science. He read a bunch of computer science textbooks, was allowed to use the family home computer, taught himself how to code, and then got a coding scholarship to college in Ohio because he had built these actual tech skills. And he's very prepared now for the marketplace and college with these computer skills that he has and he never had a smartphone and social media. And so I think sometimes we conflate that a child needs a smartphone or social media to be prepared to handle these technologies but actually we can teach them how to use the technologies as a tool whereas smartphones and social media the user is the tool. We are being used by the product. We are not learning actually how to manipulate these things in a productive way. A college professor explained to me that the students coming into her class, they know how to use smartphones, but they actually don't know how to use Microsoft Excel or Google Scholar. They're not actually prepared to use the computer and the internet in ways that would help them be prepared for handling college classes or entering the workforce. that the habit formation that happens for a child, the brain development between 0 to 18, not growing up on these technologies and having healthy brain development, allowing that prefrontal cortex to fully develop, to have emotional regulation and self-control helps prepare children for how to use these technologies well as an adult. And so I interviewed grown children who had not had smartphones and social media, but then did get access to a smartphone in college. And I asked them, you know, was there a temptation to binge on these technologies or were you not prepared to handle them well? And they said, actually, no. Like, I'm not as addicted to my phone as my peers. that that establishing that those years of 0 to 18 without these technologies allowed them to develop the habits to lay the foundation for their brain development so that they could choose to use them maturely um and operate them wisely as adults because they didn't have the addictive compulsive behaviors and habits built up from childhood. Dr. Dr. Victoria Dunley has found in her practice and she treats patients struggling with autism and ADHD. And what she found with the kids and teens coming to her practice is that often they didn't actually have these underlying conditions of autism or ADHD, but their their bodies were uh exhibiting these symptoms. Their nervous system was going into fight orflight mode. And so she coined this term electronic screen syndrome because these symptoms were induced, exacerbated, or mimicked by their use of interactive screens. And that by just eliminating interactive screens for 30 days, she would have all her patients do a 30-day digital detox before any other treatment. That for many of her patients, just taking the screens away eliminated the symptoms entirely. that the symptoms they were exhibiting of poor focus, lack of attention, um mood irritability, impulsiveness, mood swings, tantrums were actually all being induced by the screen use that. And she explains it puts a child's nervous system, a developing nervous system into a fight orflight response constantly and then there's no physical outlet for that adrenaline and cortisol to be released. And so the screen is stimulating the amygdala in the brain which then takes over the brain, takes over the prefrontal cortex and leads a child's nervous system to be disregulated. And Dr. Dunley found that electronic screen syndrome can be induced by even a regular use of screens. So a time limited use on a daily basis can still elicit these symptoms. It doesn't just have to be overuse or excessive screen time. And she found that this is the case for any app with a reward component. Any type of online interactive game or tablet, even educational games that have these reward components can elicit this fight orflight response in the nervous system. Phones are also disrupted by their mere existence. Studies have found that the mere presence of a smartphone is distracting to our brains. That we actually have to exert self-control to not be constantly checking our device because we know when it's on us that there could be something on that phone because of the notifications. There could be a new like, there could be a new follower or a new text message. And so actually the presence of the phone in itself, even if you're not using it, is inherently distracting and reduces our cognitive capacity and our attention for the task at hand. Just eliminating the interactive screens, their nervous systems were able to recalibrate to a normal level. They were able to then manage the stress and the symptoms disappeared. And then for patients that did have one of those underlying conditions, the detox alone without any other treatment cut their symptoms in half. There's actually a catch 22 with screens, especially for children with autism or ADHD where because of the behavioral difficulties parents face with children struggling with these conditions. It's very tempting to hand a child a screen because it initially calms them down and helps them to calm down and regulate their emotions. But what Dr. Dunley is finding is that cumulatively over time it actually exacerbates and worsens their symptoms because of the effects on the nervous system. And so it makes it difficult for a parent to imagine dealing with this child without a screen. But actually taking the screens away doing a detox helps that child's nervous system to rebalance the chemicals in the brain to rebalance and reduces their symptoms. There is an entire new body of research called technoference which studies the impact of technology in interfering with parent child relationships and the results are not good that parents use of mobile devices or social media leads to poor uh behavioral functioning worse emotional regulation reduced attention spans in their children. that the effects of a parent's use is actually impacting their child's behavior and emotions. They find that children exhibit worse externalizing behaviors like tantrums and attention seeking when their parents are glued to their own devices. And it's also stunting their language development and their emotional regulation because these studies explain children get scaffolding from their parents. That our attention and interaction with our kids provide them the scaffolding to develop a new skill. That our interaction helps them develop new skills and that without that scaffolding when we're turning to our devices, children are not developing these skills. It's not just children's use of technology that is stunting or impairing their development, but it's our use of technology. And one study also found that parents' use of social media was increasing the likelihood of depression in teenagers. That a teen was four times as likely to be depressed if their parent was a heavy user of social media. And it's it's not hard to imagine why because if a parent is spending that time on social media and not giving that real life relationship and attention to their child that it can lead a child to feel depressed and to not feel as valued. I think every time a parent we pull out our phone when a child is trying to talk to us or interact with us, we're communicating by our actions that the phone is more important than this real life relationship in person in front of us. And so it is very convicting as parents that we really have to think about our own tech use because of those negative impacts on our kids and because we're modeling for them how we would want them to use technology as adults. And I think asking ourselves that question, am I using my phone the way I would want my child to use their phone as an adult can be quite convicting as well as asking ourselves, you know, am I paying more attention to my phone than I am to my child? Because I think any parent would say, "Of course, I value the relationship with my child more than my phone, but is our behavior matching that?" And so, I think as parents, we need to critically examine our own use of screens, especially when we're with our children. [gasps]
>> Chapter 2, how to free your child from the perils of smartphones. If smartphones and social media are so harmful to children and if screen time limits and parental controls are not sufficient solutions for protecting them from these harms, then what are parents to do? Is there another way? My book, The Tech Exit, explains there is another way possible that we can actually opt out of smartphones and social media entirely for our children during both childhood and the teen years. And that on the other side of exiting these technologies is the life we want for our children. And I want to explain to you how parents can do this. I walk through the five key commitments to the tech exit lifestyle with the acronym feast. I wanted parents to know that this is a positive vision. And so if we're fasting from technology, what are we feasting on instead? So, let me give you those five principles that make up the acronym FEAST. F. Find other families. We can't do this alone. We need to reach out to our communities, to other parents in our neighborhood and schools to invite them to opt out with us. E, we educate, explain, and exemplify. We want our children to understand the reasons that we're saying no to these screens and we want to help work to get their buy in so that they can understand our rationale and prepare them for how to navigate these technologies as adults. And we also do that by exemplifying a healthy use of technology ourselves as parents. A adopt alternatives. There are better phone options available than the smartphone. We can give our children dumb phones that allow them to call and text without introducing all these portals to the internet, social media platforms or online games that are meant to addict a child. S we set up digital accountability and family screen rules. This is how do we then use technology in the home wisely? How can children use computers or a family enjoy television together? And so we want to think through our family screen time rules, how we use these technologies purposefully and intentionally in a way that brings the family together rather than dividing us on our own devices. And we want to have digital accountability in the home between parent and child to keep our children safe. And then t we trade the screens for real life responsibilities and pursuits. that as we restrict children's freedoms in the virtual world, we want to allow them more freedoms in the real world. Real life activities, relationships, and responsibilities that help them progress towards adulthood, not the screens that stunt them from progressing towards adulthood. It's important in living out this lifestyle in our families that as we're restricting smartphones and social media that we're actually working to get our kids buy in and we're hearing them out if they have reasonable requests. So all the families that I spoke with said they wanted their children to understand the reasons and actually educate themselves on the harms. And a lot of these children then when they realized what their parents were trying to protect them from, even if they didn't love it at the time, the experience of not being on the social media apps, they could understand why. And they recognize that these restrictions came from a place of love and protection. And that now as adults, these children say they're so grateful their parents made those decisions. They could understand the rationale even at the time, even if they didn't love the implications of that. And a key part of this is is not starting with these top- down restrictions out of nowhere, but starting with a conversation and trying to explain what you've come to observe and understand about the harms of these technologies, what you want to protect your child from, and even doing something together where you're trying to actually help educate your children on these harms or these these rationale behind these decisions. And so I had many families share that they um read an article and talked about the kind of harms of smartphones together and tried to actually have a conversation and even asking questions of their child. You know, do you notice these effects among your peers? Do you notice how your peers or you are interacting with your phone? Like what do you notice? How do you feel about that? And so trying to actually engage children in a conversation about this and doing this all in the context of a relationship where you're trying to walk these steps with your child. Um not a top- down approach, but really coming alongside them and explaining what you're trying to usher them into that you what you want for them is a life of real life relationships and friendships and connection and flourishing. and that exiting technology is part of ushering them into the life that they want for themselves and the life that you want for them. And I had many families say they watched the documentary The Social Dilemma with some of their teenagers and the teens once they realized the business model behind social media that these platforms were trying to addict them, manipulate their behavior, it was like they saw the light for themselves and they didn't want any part of that. And so we as parents can be educators coming alongside our kids to try to have these conversations and expose for them the business model and why we're trying to kind of keep them safe from these types of addictions because we want them to have a flourishing, thriving, successful life as children and as adults. But another important piece of this was that these were constant conversations between parent and child. and that while the parents had certain non-negotiables, no smartphone or no social media, they wanted to try to help accommodate children's reasonable requests for staying in touch with their peers, having a social life. And so, just to give a couple examples, you know, one family said they initially had their two sons sharing one of these dumb phones, but the older brother was getting annoyed by the kind of silly texts that his younger brother was getting. and he said sometimes it made him miss communications from his baseball coach. So he asked, you know, could I now get my own non-s smartphone? And so they were like, that makes sense. That's reasonable. We will get you your own dumb phone, but they still had parameters around it. Like, you're not going to take it with you around the neighborhood. It's going to mainly live at home. You can use it for your general communication needs, but this isn't going to be some device that's tethered to you constantly. So, they stuck to their principles, but accommodated his reasonable request. Another family mentioned their son had a dumb phone. He was getting very frustrated by its bad maps or the lack of GPS. He was driving more. He said, "Can I have another phone that just at least has better maps on it, a better GPS?" And again, the parent said, "That makes sense. Let's try to find a better non-s smartphone alternative that can provide you the tools that you need to drive well, navigate safely, but again still didn't have the dangers of social media or the internet on the phone constantly. Another mom mentioned, you know, they didn't allow their fun son to have a smartphone or social media, but his classmates kept up through a Google chat group and he was allowed to go on on a nightly basis and check that chat to stay in touch with his friends from school. And so again, parents trying to accommodate children's desire for communication with their friends in a way that still protected them from the harms of smartphones and social media as the non-negotiables in their family. It's never too late to reverse course on smartphones, social media, or interactive screens. That digital detoxes really work. doing a 30-day digital detox actually chemically like resets the brain and that desensitization to real world natural pleasures that that can actually be undone by a digital detox that the brain comes back to a normal balance and homeostasis and they actually start to experience pleasures from the real world again. I have heard from family after family that honestly thought it would be impossible. They said, "I can't picture dealing with my child without the smartphone or screen." But they had really reached this point of saying, "You know what? We see all these harms on our child, all these ill effects. We just have to try it." And so, I always encourage parents, maybe the tech exit seems daunting to do over the long term. Just start with a 30-day digital detox. Setting aside 30 days on your calendar, getting on board as a family, why we're doing this. We want to establish a healthier use of technology in our family. We're going to detox from these screens for 30 days and instead we're going to fill our calendar with all these other non-screen activities. We're going to make this a team effort as a family that we're doing this together and it's going to be fun and trying to actually give children a vision for what we're trying to do. And so many families even said for their teens, it wasn't too late to reverse course on the smartphone that even their 14-year-old son came to see the effect that the smartphone had had on him by detoxing from it. And he said, "Wow, I didn't realize how much my phone had changed me or the power it had over me and was actually able to exit these technologies even as a teenager." I would encourage parents of teens if you do take the smartphone away giving them an alternative phone where they can still communicate and text and call and also trying to think of realworld freedoms you can replace it with. One family who reversed course on a smartphone with their 17-year-old son. They had honestly just given him the smartphone and immediately within a week saw the compulsive effects it had on him and said, "Wow, this was a mistake." and they had a conversation and the dad said, "This is not necessarily a parenting strategy I'd recommend of giving a child a smartphone and immediately taking away, but they they found it was necessary." And so instead, when they took the smartphone away, they gave their son access to a truck. And he talks about this incredible story that sometimes it takes a truck. and their son used that truck to start a moving business with his brother, gained real world responsibilities, had a real sense of accomplishment and satisfaction that really was much more satisfying than the smartphone. And again, they gave him a dumb phone instead. Um, but the power of actually giving him more responsibility and freedom in the real world was an incredible kind of replacement for the smartphone. And so it it really is possible to reverse course even in the teen years. and their son going off to college said, "You know, I'm really not sure if I'm gonna get a smartphone or not. Now that I can as an adult, I'm not sure because I actually did recognize that it had this weird power over me, and I'm not sure that that's what I want as an adult." What the Tech Exit lifestyle looks like in my own home is that we don't have interactive screens in our house. Our children don't have access to tablets. We don't have a smart TV. We do have a dumb TV that my husband pulls out on Friday nights for us to watch a family movie, but it's not a daily habit in our family and it's something that we're always using uh purposefully and we're always doing it together. I don't personally have a smartphone. I gave up my smartphone two years ago because I recognized it was too addictive and too powerful for me to resist checking it all the time when I was with my kids. And I recognized giving up a smartphone and having one of these alternative phones would allow me to be more present with my children and less distracted by what was happening on the device. We haven't had to navigate kids having to use screens for schools yet. All of my children are five and under. And so I recognize that the pressures towards using screens is only going to increase. Obviously, their peers don't yet have smartphones. And so that is why I really set out to interview families of teenagers who had teens now and who have successfully launched teens to college to find out how had they navigated these pressures when all of a sudden all their children's friends started getting smartphones or getting on the social media apps or they were required to have their children using the internet more um for school assignments. That is what helped me to flesh out this framework was not only taking the steps that I could now with my young kids of not allowing them to have interactive screen time, keeping passive screen time of the television to a rare occurrence that was something we use together, me giving up my own smartphone, but how to actually then navigate when children do need more access or have more access to technology and when their peers have more access to those devices. Um, the last thing I'll say is that even at a young age, we're trying to explain and educate our children about the internet. And so, it's it's really never too early to try to be explaining to your children the dangers that they could come across online because I recognize there's only so much I can do in my power that if other kids that they're around start to have smartphones or internet connected devices, they could easily be shown something. And so with our kids, we use a book called Good Pictures, Bad Pictures Junior where we talk about how they could see bad pictures online or someone could show them a bad picture and how to respond to that because I want my kids to have tools to know how to navigate that. And so now from reading that book, they know that if they see something, they turn away and they run and they tell me. And trying to open that conversation even from a young age that I want my children to be able to come to me and talk about that. And that was something I saw with these families of teens too where these constant conversations of open channels of communication so that the parent was the resource that a child could go to if they came across something that made them feel uncomfortable online or if a friend showed them something. And so even for young parents, it's never too early to start those conversations. And those will obviously gradually deepen um and and be explained more fully as they grow in the tween and teen years. When I often get asked, well then what is a reasonable age for a smartphone? I find it's a complicated answer. I think what I've seen in these families is that they've actually kind of rejected the premise of that question. This sense of inevitability. Oh, at some point my child will have to get one. Families will draw these lines differently. Many families said that for them it wasn't necessarily an age as much of signs of maturity in their child of being able to handle it properly. And so I think knowing your child is going to be most important. And like I said with the example of the the family that gave their child a 17-year-old a smartphone because they initially thought that that would be appropriate age. They they observed in him these compulsive behaviors towards it and they went okay actually this is not a good decision for him right now. And so I I really actually try to encourage parents to know your child and even if you give something to not be afraid to then say actually we made a mistake if you are observing these kind of compulsive addictive like behaviors and and that's really the guiding principle I try to explain to parents is you have to watch your own children and if you're seeing these signs in them then it it's probably wise to undo that decision and wait for longer to give it to them. And families have drawn the lines differently of, okay, senior year of high school, we want to help you gradually start to take on more maturity and freedom as you prepare to go to college. Other families waited till college. Other families incentivized their kids to stay on their dumb phone through college by offering to pay for their phone plan and then said, "If you want to get a smartphone, you're an adult. You can do that, but you'll have to purchase it and pay for your own phone plan." because those parents again kind of said that we felt still felt like we were in a guiding role helping our child even through the college years as they gradually entered adulthood. Part of the challenge of these screen technologies is that their harms are not only individual, but they actually change the group social dynamics where even if a few of their friends or peers are using smartphones or social media, it can change the social dynamics for everyone because that's how their relationships are being mediated. And so kids who even aren't on the apps can still feel left out or still feel lonely or anxious or experience depression. A way that parents are pushing back against this is they're creating these kind of counter pressures, pushing the smartphones out of childhood by talking to their neighbors and trying to create a haven for their kids to come home to at the end of the school day where even if their peers at school were on these phones that on their street, the kids are playing outside. There's a neighborhood in a suburb of DC where just two moms, it started with two moms talking to each other across the street about the kind of childhood they wanted for their kids. and they agreed it wasn't their kids growing up on phones. They wanted their kids riding bikes out in the neighborhood together. And so those two families agreeing to do this, creating this positive vision became really a compelling force on the street. And so they said other kids started coming outside and playing with their kids. And she acknowledged, you know, not every parent on the street shares their exact same tech restrictions, but they all share this positive vision of they what they want childhood to be filled with. And so the dynamic in the neighborhood is kids playing outside, free of phones, working through conflicts together, no parents in sight, um riding bikes, throwing balls, and it's created a really positive vision where that's the kind of dynamic where other kids want to be part of that. And so it's really powerful the strength that we can find in numbers um when we just talk to our neighbors, when we talk to a few parents in our school um to create that type of positive social dynamic that creates a counter pressure to push back against the negative dynamics that the smartphones and social media introduce. So it's possible actually to have a neighborhood that feels just like the 1970s um where there are no phones in sight, the kids are squealing and laughing and screaming outside together. Um and that ruckus on the street just draws more kids in. Trying to create that type of positive force in your community um to be the antidote to the screens. The families that have exited tech explained to me that their family relationships are now much closer from having taken the screens away because instead at the dinner table, they're having real life conversations with each other. people aren't distracted to check what's going on in their phones or even just mentally distracted from the conversation thinking about what's on their devices or their phones. And so these these families say that taking the tech away made their relationships stronger with each other. And it and the irony I will just say that was observed to me by one mom is she thought giving the child the smartphone would reduce the kind of battles over the child wanting the phone and the parent saying no. And she said, "But actually what we didn't realize was giving the smartphone introduced 40 more battles a day over, hey, get off your phone, put your phone down, you know, trying to enforce these time limits or stay on top of these parental controls." And so then by actually just kicking the smartphone out of the house, it reduced the friction and tension in their relationship and allowed their family bonds to be much more strengthened. And a lot of these families fill their time. Instead of being on devices, they're going on family walks together. They're going out in the yard and playing a pickup game of soccer or bad mitten. They're enjoying a puzzle or board game together. Or they're just actually watching even a screen entertainment as a family activity. They're sitting down and watching a movie together and actually enjoying that experience. Where I can tell you a lot of families who have smartphones say they don't even they can't even watch a family movie together without the kids checking their phones or being immersed in their devices. is it's not even a shared experience when they're taking that in together. And so these families exiting tech just explain that their family relationship, especially the parent child bond has been so strengthened um by getting rid of the smartphones that we're really coming between that relationship and they actually just enjoy the time with each other more. And part of it is that the brain is desensitized by these constant dopamine hits. And so getting rid of that, the children actually experience and enjoy these real world pleasures of being together in person, taking in a sunset, going for a walk where they didn't enjoy those. Those felt boring and mundane when they were on these devices. And so these kids are flourishing. They're happy. And I can't even tell you the number of educators who observe to me that they can tell the difference in their students, the kids who have smartphones and those who don't. Because the kids who don't have smartphones make eye contact. They're able to engage in adult conversation. Um, they're very relational. Whereas the kids who have smartphones struggle to make eye contact when they talk to their teachers. They have a lot of social anxiety and the real life relationships and interactions feel difficult for them. And so it's a very stark contrast getting rid of the screens what that does to the real life relationships. I'm not saying that this lifestyle of the tech exit is going to be easy and it can be more challenging given specific family circumstances that you may have. If your child has had an access to a smartphone for a long time um or if you're a single parent or if you're working parents that are outside of the home most of the day, it can feel more challenging of of how can I do this digital detox? But let me just assure you that so many parents, despite those challenges, have taken these steps and are so grateful they did it. And I just want to say that there are points of resistance that we're going to have to push through as parents. And for some of us, it's going to be harder to overcome those points of resistance than for others. But it is the best thing we can do for our children. And we can start by just taking small steps. So I would encourage you to even just try to do a week-long digital detox. Maybe 30 days feels too much at first, but talking to your child about, hey, we we're going to take a break from this phone for the week and just trying to see how that goes. I had some families say they did a couple week-l long detoxes over time, getting used to the idea before then they dove into doing a 30-day digital detox and then eventually leaving the phone behind. Even just trying to do a phone free hour or a phone free meal or going for a phone free walk with your child is helping to introduce that concept of this is what life can look like without the phone. Obviously, schools can play a really critical role in helping parents protect the school day from the influence of phones. And I encourage parents to talk to their schools because often schools are afraid to make these changes because they worry about parents' reactions. And when they hear from parents that they would desire a phone-free environment during the school day from their kids, schools are eager and excited to try to adopt these policies. And then I would also say try to talk to your friends and your neighbors and find a community of support for you to go walk through this with your child. It's really difficult to do it alone, especially if you are a single working mom and you aren't at home as often with your child. trying to find a neighbor or a friend who could walk through this with you. Maybe have your child over to their house where they're not on screens and they're providing that type of social environment for your child. Other afterchool programs and increasingly some schools are offering extracurriculars after school that are phone free. Trying to find options in your community to help support you is another is another help. And so I I do recognize there are going to be challenges to this lifestyle. It is possible to overcome them and try to just start taking the steps that you can towards this and starting those conversations with your child and engaging them to observe these effects in themselves and then just not being afraid of the challenges you may face because really on the other side of exiting tech is really a true life of flourishing and and it is possible to do this just one step at a time. Chapter 3. Creating policy to protect our children.
>> Many of the negative effects and dynamics from smartphones and social media today are not possible for individual parents to fully address on their own, but require collective solutions as a society. And so schools can be a really helpful force for change to help parents push back against the harms of smartphones and social media by having schools try to protect uh students learning and social environment from the influence of these technologies. So schools are kind of on the front lines um as our our next level of collective solutions that can help parents. And then on a on a broader level, there are actually policy changes that can ex be extremely helpful for providing the collective solutions we need in the law to back parents up both on a state level and federal level. So, there's been a big push to get screens into schools as the solution for solving our educational inequalities, for helping children advance in education. But it hasn't panned out in the data. The scores that we see in the latest kind of national study of academics in the US, their scores for reading, math, science are at their lowest levels since the 1970s. So despite the increasing push for screens in schools, it has not resulted in better academic improvements. And and people like to point to the COVID pandemic as the reason for these low scores, but it's important to note that the decline in the scores goes back further than that. Um COVID and all the screenbased learning certainly accelerated these trends, but this was starting back in 2012 that we started to see these reading scores going back lower than they had been the last several decades. and now returning to the lowest level we've seen since the 1970s. And other research shows that they've done studies that the access to technology, access to one laptop per child did not notably improve educational outcomes or attainment did not lead to an increased likelihood to go to college or to graduate high school. The one laptop per child or put a screen on every desk has actually not borne out in the data. the results that I think were expected and hoped for. And some of the science behind learning, looking at the human brain and how we learn can explain why. More and more studies are showing, MRI results show that um children who read texts on a on a screen do not engage with it as deeply, do not comprehend the text as deeply reading it on a screen versus reading it on paper. And the same is true for learning their ABCs and learning their letters and writing and language skills. Um that it is that children actually learn their literacy more when they write letters out by hand as opposed to typing them or doing an activity on the screen. And so in all of these recent studies, paper proves to be better than the screen. Maryann Wolf explains this is because screens actually encourage our brains to skim that our eyes were naturally skimming on the screen rather than reading the complete sentences. And so reading texts on paper, children read more fully, comprehend more deeply, and develop fuller literacy. We are seeing some schools returning more and more to using books and paper as opposed to the educational screens on the desk. One of the most effective policy changes that schools can make to support parents is getting rid of phones from the school day. And not just during classroom time, but from bell to bell. And studies are showing that these smartphone bands are extremely effective. That not only are they seeing improvements in students academic scores, but they're actually seeing improvements in student relationships and behavior. Many school districts mentioned they adopted these policies because of discipline issues they were dealing with of children engaging in inappropriate behaviors on the phones or using them for bullying or to coordinate devious activities during the school day, meeting up in the bathroom. And so they were a disruption not just to the learning environment but actually to the social environment in the school and the pressures that students were under feeling like they could be constantly photographed during the school day and having pictures of them uploaded to social media. And so just getting rid of the phones from bell to bell improve students mental health scores um their mental health well-being and reduced discipline and other behavioral issues. and they started to say like the students really started to talk with their teachers again to socialize during the lunch periods and at recess and in the hallways. Um that it created a vibrant social environment considering that children's main waking hours are spent away at school. Not just protecting the academic environment for kids, but protecting their social environment was a really powerful supporting force to parents trying to opt out of these technologies and and really counteracting some of those negative group dynamics that social media and smartphones create. And so more and more school districts, individual schools are doing these bell-to-bell phone bands. even entire states um like Virginia have gone just completely phone free during the school day and are seeing the benefits. A study done in London back in like 2016 found that not only did GPA's rise among all the students and their performance on the kind of national tests administered each year in England, but the lowest performing students had the greatest improvements. Their results basically doubled. This solution, more than any other, really actually helps address some of these educational achievement gaps that we're seeing. More than handing every child a laptop, getting phones out of the school day has had the greatest positive impact on helping especially the lowest performing students improve their academic outcome. that it's not on individual teachers to police this in their class, but it's a top-down school administration decision where the kids turn the phones in at the start of the school day or have them somehow inaccessible to them really protects the learning and social environment to pay the most full attention to the instruction and the education happening in the classroom. The reason that social media has become so harmful to kids is because there's been no legal accountability whatsoever for the social media platforms as an industry. A lot of this stems back to a law called section 230, which is the main law that governs the internet, and it gives immunity to liability to platforms for the third-party content that they host. And the law's purpose and intent make sense that a company shouldn't be sued for content that they host causing harm to someone else on the platform. But the problem has been that this law has been overexpanded in its interpretation by courts to even immunize companies for things that are their own wrongdoing. Um that are their product design, their features. um like the likes, the metrics, the algorithms that aggressively promote content to kids, like a blackout challenge being dumped into a 10-year-old's feed without even looking for it. It fed it to her by an algorithm and she accidentally took her own life doing this blackout challenge. But these lawsuits that parents have tried to bring for these harms that were not caused by the content hosted on the platforms, but by the design of the companies themselves have largely been tossed out of courts because of section 230. The normal means of holding companies accountable in our country is litigation. is this is how we protect our consumers is is not necessarily a lot of regulation on the front end, but that there is some means of holding companies accountable that their products are harming consumers. And what's been so challenging with the social media industry is that that main channel of accountability through litigation has been completely blocked off to parents because of section 230. There are many different angles to trying to address the problem from a policy perspective and it's important that those solutions keep in mind the first amendment rights of adults. One kind of bucket of solutions is just trying to reform section 230 and open up more liability for holding these companies accountable and federal bills uh the kids online safety act. KOSA was trying to do this to just actually provide more accountability to say that these companies can be held accountable for certain objective harms to kids from their product design, not related to content, but just opening up more channels for litigation. And so that's a solution protects the First Amendment rights of adults, but just actually tries to open these companies up to more liability and accountability. Other solutions at the state level have been trying to have age verification and parental consent laws for social media accounts. And I think it's important to recognize there's been advances in age verification where this can be conducted by a third party. There's no revealing of your personal information at all to the platform. States now increasingly have digital IDs. And a lot of these digital ID programs actually have a verification software program that you can use where all you have to do when you try to get onto an adult website. Um, or in the case of trying to do this for social media, you would just let the digital ID know you're trying to access this website and it would just generate a token sending this to the website letting them know you're 18 and that's it. That's the only information transmitted is just a signal. Yes, this person's above 18 or not. no other personal identifying information about you transferred just like a two-factor authentication method that takes about 30 seconds. The good uses of technology had been these advances in privacy protecting um you know anonymous ways uh for adults to verify that they're an adult to inhabit the virtual world as an adult while effectively protecting children. And so these solutions have been applied already to pornography websites, but a similar approach could be taken if we're trying to age restrict social media out of childhood or to require some type of parental consent. So a parent is really overseeing whether or not a child gets on a social media account. Um since to date right now, the current state of affairs is any child can create a social media account, falsify a birth date, and a parent would ne never know. they could just make an account, check a box, and they're on. And so having solutions that really try to give parents more involvement in the process so that children are not just entering contracts with giant tech companies who are extracting all their time, attention, and data uh without a parent being a part of that process. A lot of these laws again are really trying to balance the first amendment rights of adults, their privacy, while also finding ways to protect our kids. Social media companies and their algorithms are playing a role in facilitating child sexual abuse and exploitation and human trafficking on the platforms. It's been difficult to hold them accountable for their role because of section 230, but their algorithms have been shown to actually connect predators more easily with victims. The Wall Street Journal ran a story about how Instagram is Predator's app of choice because the algorithms actually help them to find the kind of child sexual abuse material they're looking for and to more easily find their victims. An internal 2019 study and report investigation that Meta did internally of their Instagram platform found that they had certain categories of accounts that they designated as groomer accounts which were adults exhibiting some types of groomer behaviors looking for children not doing anything to cross the line to be quote unquote illegal but they actually had identified accounts that they viewed as groomers. So 27% of the accounts being recommended to these groomer accounts were minor accounts and average adult accounts would only get 7% of recommendation accounts to be minors. And so there's actually a role that the social media companies themselves are playing that their algorithms are making it easier for these groomers, these predators to find children. Other studies show that for Instagram specifically, their internal research said that a 100,000 minors a day were receiving sexually explicit messages from adults, some type of sexually explicit material. 100,000 minors a day. And this was their internal research and they have done nothing about it. And so that is the problem is that they know that their product design is resulting in these harmful effects to children. And yet because there's no accountability in the law, there is no incentive for them to change the business model because they are profiting off of this. They are profiting off the user time and attention of people using these platforms. And and so their algorithms are resulting in these harmful harmful results to children. And yet there is no accountability for the role that they're playing in facilitating these abuses of our kids. There is a pornography epidemic afflicting our children and teens today in our country. Parents may not realize that the average age of first exposure for pornography is now estimated between to be between 7 and 11 years old. that children are being exposed young and often to pornography, often through online means, and many of them are coming across it for the first time accidentally, clicking on a link or being shown something by a friend on a smartphone. What we have to realize is the kind of pornography children are taking in. This is not your uncle's playboy. This is dehumanizing, violent, degrading pornography. And our children are taking this in. They're not even trying to go looking for it, but it's finding them on social media and on smartphones because how ubiquitous and accessible it is. And so, we have to really grapple with this epidemic of pornography exposure among our youth and how quickly that sucks children into dangerous addictions to this extremely graphic um and dehumanizing content. This is being actively served up to children in their social media feeds itself. Just extremely sexualized content being dumped by the algorithm into their feed. And then what happens is if a child even just hovers over a Tik Tok reel of some type of suggestive dancing or sexual content for a few seconds, they are instantly barrageed in their feed by more and more aggressive content of that kind. And so they have done investigative reporting to find that kids are actually really quickly sucked into rabbit holes of more extreme content that the feed becomes even more extreme over time. And so what's happening is that the environment created on the social media accounts is hypers sexualized for kids and teen girls think that this is how they garner more likes and followers the more sexually suggested material that they post. So it's become very normalized. The message that the platforms send is that this type of sexual content is normal and that everyone is doing it. And so it's no surprise then that the effects this is having is now our teens, especially teen boys, are falling prey to these sextortion schemes. And it's because it's become so normalized to send sexually explicit images and material to each other online. And so they don't think anything of it when they're approached by what appears to be a local girl in their community asking for some type of sexual photo or interaction and then they're quickly it's quickly revealed it's a scheme and they're being financially extorted threatened that this is going to be posted all over social media. They don't pay the money. And so these extortion cases have been increasing rapidly. I mean Snapchat alone says they receive 10,000 reports of sextortion a month. And that's just one app and it's probably under reportported. Another survey found one in five teens said that they've been a victim of extortion. And why is this happening? It's because the environment that the social media apps have created has become so sexualized that teens don't think anything of it. That this feels normal. A Harvard professor said that she did an investigation into Tik Tok and found that Tik Tok live felt like going down the street to a strip club filled with 15year-old girls who were performing acts that towed the line of child pornography being urged on by adult viewers who were offering them these Tik Tok gifts um that they could use in the app or exchange for cash. And so it's an incredibly sexualized environment which is warping children's own self-image, their own expectations of relationships, and is also making it easier for predators to prey on children because this has become so normalized in their social environments on social media. Another teacher in in Ireland was sharing that he started to ask his 16-year-old students what they think is expected of them in a romantic relationship because he's recognizing this issue of pornography exposure. And he said sadly the the young boys think that they should be aggressive and dominant. They should be with as many women as possible. And the girls think the o they think that on the on the other hand they think that they should be um dominated. And and why is that normalized? like where are they getting these expectations? It's through pornography. And another young girl who has shared her story widely, she talks, she wrote a really compelling article about what she found when she encountered Pornhub accidentally as a 10-year-old is she said parents don't realize that uh the Playboy looks like an American Girl doll catalog compared to what I was exposed to. Part of it goes back to the brain science that the dopamine released by pornography desensitizes you to the to the real world pleasures and that actually over time your brain builds up a tolerance and you need ever more extreme content. The desensitization and the tolerance built up over time leads users to pursue increasingly violent and extreme forms of this type of sexual content to try to experience the same dopamine high that they had at first. Unfortunately, the reality for parents has been that it's been they have been told that it's all on them to try to protect their children from pornography. um that they have to use filters as as really the only means available to them to try to protect their children. But filters are really ill equipped for protecting children in this smartphone app-based ecosystem of technology that we now have. And that's because on a smartphone there are hundreds of apps. Every app has its own inapp browser. And often apps actually block external third-party controls or filters from operating with inside their apps. And so when a child can click through to Pornhub, the Pornhub website inside of the Snapchat app without ever leaving the app, a filter can't necessarily block that content that they're accessing from the inapp browser. And so there are so many challenges to the app-based ecosystem. A smartphone means that a parent now has to try to effectively shut down all the thousands of portals to the internet on that device. and that often a filter built for a web browser does not function well inside of apps. And if even in innocuous educational game apps, there's an internet browser, children can be accessing pornography through that. I can't even tell you all the stories I've heard of parent after parents saying, "I had no idea that they could get to this porn website through this educational game." And those haven't been fixed or addressed. And so, um, parents just lament to me how difficult it is to completely shut down all the portals of access to a child that a smart device introduces. And the Supreme Court just recognized this. The justices even in their questioning over this recent case of a Texas age verification law for pouring websites really focus on just how ineffective the filtering has been. Children are techsavvier than their parents. Smartphones are in their pocket 24/7. It's incredibly difficult for a parent to oversee and filters really struggle to keep up with all the apps and inapp browsers. And so it's just it's impossible. It's an impossible fight for parents to effectively cut off a child's access to pornography on a smartphone or smart device. Parents will always be on the front line and trying to protect our kids, but there are critical policy solutions and laws that are needed to back parents up. We need to have laws that actually put the onus on the porn websites themselves age restricting their content so that if a child accidentally clicks on a link to Pornhub, they're not immediately sucked into all its obscene content or another child can't easily pull up Pornhub on a smart device and stick it in my child's face. And so these are really necessary collective solutions that we already have had in the physical world. So you can't go to a brickandmortar store and purchase a pornographic magazine unless you verify you're an adult. And yet in the online world, you can easily click through to Pornhub without having to prove that you're an adult. These age verification laws for pornography websites would critically bring the virtual world into alignment with the real world. And we had a landmark victory in the United States in June 2025 when the Supreme Court upheld one of these age verification laws out of Texas as constitutional. And so this provides a clear path forward for states to be able to legislate in this area better able to protect children from online obscenity. And so this is a huge victory. It pushes back against the the kind of status quo of the last 20 years where it's been only on parents to try to use filters to protect their kids, providing them now this critical layer of backup and making it possible for states to pass more laws in this area of protecting kids from online obscenity. Um, the court applied intermediate scrutiny which said that the burden on adult speech was incidental and that states actually need more nuance and more flexibility in being able to balance the first amendment rights of adults and the compelling state interest of protecting kids online and that one law doesn't need to address every aspect of the problem. And so it actually opens a path for states to also pursue other laws to restrict kids access to online obscenity. I've spent the last several years working on policy solutions to try to help support parents in their efforts to protect kids and also to ensure that all children are protected, not just those who have involved parents who can spend 40 hours a week trying to stay on top of all this stuff. And so, it's just a couple buckets of solutions. At the state level, we've seen just tremendous victories and progress over the last several years. 24 states have passed successfully age verification for pornography websites laws to age restrict those portions of the internet that are extremely harmful for children. Also, now numerous states had passed age verification and parental consent laws for social media accounts, recognizing that in the current state of affairs because of a federal law called Kappa, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act that says that if you're under 13, a parent has to consent to your data collection. And so then social media's deacto age became 13 because these companies are collecting data. That's their business model. But parents are completely cut out of the equation and there's no real meaningful age enforcement or age verification. And so we know 8 to 12 year olds are getting on these platforms and that there's no parental involvement whatsoever when children are agreeing to these whole host of terms and services with giant tech companies. And so giant tech companies are entering contracts with our kids without parents being part of that process. And so these state laws are trying to again provide some type of age verification, parental consent for kids to get access to social media accounts. And then at a federal level, there's been a lot of reforms proposed and introduced around reforming section 230 to try to allow for more liability, particularly when it comes to their design harms. The Kids Online Safety Act has been a big bipartisan bill introduced the last several years um that actually passed out of the Senate in 2024 91 to3. Unfortunately, it didn't make it through the House before the Congress term expired, but I think that is looking like it will be uh raised again. It would put a a obligation on the platforms to mitigate certain objective harms to kids in their product design and again just opening up more channels of legal liability um if they're not then complying with the requirements of that law. Um there's been other proposals to try to update Kappa to potentially raise the age of Kappa. Why was the age of internet adulthood set so low at 13? That law was passed back in 1998 before social media even existed. Another recent creative solution that some states have been taking up is trying to require age verification and parental consent at the app store level. And so Utah and Texas have passed these app store accountability acts which are just meant to put parents more in the driver's seat over a child's experience in the app store. And so it would require a parents consent for any app download or purchase. So, efforts to try to bring our regulations and laws more into alignment with the state of the internet today and the harms of social media um just trying to protect children. And so, efforts um are exploring raising Kappa to the age of 15 instead of 13. I also personally have been advocating for just a national age restriction on social media. The country of Australia has done this where they have just banned social media for minors under 16. and that provides that collective solution and so parents on their own aren't having to say no uh to the pressures towards social media but instead it's just a non-option for kids under 16. The way we've age restricted other harmful substances or technologies to children like motor vehicles or firearms, those are age restricted. We recognize they take maturity to operate or the ways that social media acts on the brain like an addictive substance. We've likewise age restricted tobacco and alcohol out of childhood. So we have these precedents in our laws um to look at these solutions we've taken in the past and apply those to looking at social media today. Those are just some of the categories of solutions I've been working on the last several years. And I will say I'm excited by the possibilities because there's been a lot more attention by policy makers on the harms of social media. just the last several years, we see more and more states passing these laws and we see Congress on a bipartisan nature trying to find solutions that protect kids and empower parents um in this digital age. Want to support the channel? Join the Big Think Members community where you get access to videos early and free.