Hi everyone, I'm Anthony.
Welcome to my channel
Originally, this video
I plan to continue from the last issue.
The context of "victim culture"
Let's continue.
But recently
A friend sent me some material.
It made me want to complain.
This is exactly the topic we're going to talk about next.
It's actually a kind of victim culture.
A variation in the Chinese context
and the presentation of pathology
Just recently
A video blogger named "Eating Melon Master"
It became popular on the Chinese internet.
If you haven't seen her video yet
I can describe it briefly.
This blogger believes
Ming Dynasty in Chinese history
It is the ultimate beacon of human civilization.
Even the sole source of modern technology
Not only the Ming Dynasty
Our Han people have always been victorious throughout history.
It is the center admired by the whole world.
Even if you lose, you can turn things around.
She even denied the Western Renaissance.
The significance of the Industrial Revolution
It is believed that all modern Western scientific and technological developments
Including mathematical principles of natural philosophy
This also includes relativity and the periodic table.
They all stole the scientific achievements of the Ming Dynasty.
They believe
The Age of Exploration in the West
Actually, it was Zheng He's voyages to the Western Ocean during the Ming Dynasty that started it.
The Industrial Revolution in the West
It has nothing to do with Watt improving the steam engine.
Instead, it was Western missionaries who stole it.
The Yongle Encyclopedia of China
The drawings inside were translated into English.
Not only that
They even denied the existence of ancient Greek and Roman civilizations.
For example, it is believed that Aristotle...
Archimedes does not exist.
Fabricated people
The Pythagorean theorem is the same as the Pythagorean theorem, etc.
Human civilization was created by the Han Chinese.
However, since the Han Chinese and the Ming Dynasty were so powerful...
Why did modern China appear so backward?
Their logic is also very simple.
It's all the fault of the Manchus.
They considered the Manchus to be barbaric.
alien invasion
It interrupted the process by which the Han Chinese were about to ignite the Industrial Revolution.
It dragged China into a dark abyss.
In fact, their views are not new.
Instead, it has been circulating on the Chinese internet for a long time.
Western pseudo-history theory
Hehuang Han historical perspective
Simply put, there are two points.
First, there is a strong Han Chinese superiority complex.
The belief that there is only one civilization in the world
It is Chinese civilization
All inventions
They all stole technology from the Ming Dynasty of China.
Secondly, extreme xenophobia
xenophobia here
This includes not only ethnic minorities such as the Manchu
Even including the West
Under the influence of this historical perspective
Chinese Internet
A rather naive, fan-circle-style view of history has emerged.
This is what is known as dynasty powder.
People worship ancient dynasties like idols.
Aside from extreme Ming fans
There are also Qin Dynasty fans and Han Dynasty fans.
There are even fans of the Shu Han dynasty.
For example, the Shu Han under the rule of Liu Bei and Zhuge Liang
regarded as an idealistic utopia
Viewing the Cao Wei and Eastern Wu regimes as evil villains.
That nonsense
In this video, we won't refute it.
Instead, it focuses on a deeper issue.
Why does China have a Han Chinese historical perspective?
Does it look so primitive and idiotic?
Why are Chinese people in the 21st century...
They were still shouting "Overthrow the Qing and restore the Ming!"
Such an outdated slogan
Chinese nationalism
Nationalism in other parts of the world
What are the differences?
This is the question we'll be answering in this video.
I will upload this video.
Placed in the list of "History and Society"
if
Do you have any topics you'd like to discuss or consult with me about?
You are also welcome to contact me via email to make an appointment.
Let's get back to our topic.
In the Chinese Han imperial narrative
The Han people are a group that has spanned thousands of years.
Even tens of thousands of years of time and space
An entity that has never changed
But if we look at Benedict Anderson's...
The classic work *Imagined Communities*
We can easily draw the conclusion.
Han Chinese in the modern sense
It is actually a very recent invention.
Some people might say
We have spoken Chinese for thousands of years
Confucianism, which has been believed in for thousands of years
How can it be said to have been invented?
But here we need to clarify a concept.
Cultural community and political nation are two different things.
On this land of China
There is indeed a group of people who speak Chinese and read Confucian classics.
But what they constitute
It's just a loose cultural community
Rather than a nation in the modern sense.
because
The emergence of nationalism
We need what Anderson said
Horizontal brotherhood
Horizontal comradeship
It means that although I don't know you
Our social classes may also be different.
But I know we're in cahoots.
We share the same life experience.
We are willing to work for the same abstract concept of China.
Give and even sacrifice
But in ancient China
This does not exist.
Despite the help of a unified Chinese character system and the imperial examination system
Beijing officials
It is indeed possible to communicate with officials in Guangxi.
But this is only a very small minority.
Connections among scholar-officials
For the vast majority of the population, illiterate farmers
A farmer from Beijing and a farmer from Guangxi
They don't speak the same language.
Their customs are different
The gods they worship are also different.
They will never meet in their lifetime.
It is also impossible to read the same newspaper
To generate synchronicity
What is synchronicity?
He is a Chinese person in Beijing.
Pick up your phone in the morning
I saw state media reports that China was bullied by Japan again.
He knew at the same moment
Shanghai and Wuhan
Thousands of people are reading the same news.
The same anger
This shared experience
That is the cornerstone of nationalism.
In ancient times
This technology
The conditions, of course, do not exist.
For ordinary people in pre-modern times
The concept of the Han ethnicity lacks a tangible sense of reality.
Their sense of identity extends only to the village or clan.
They were the emperor's subjects.
Instead of their compatriots
So
This loose, sleeping
A cultural group that only knows how to pay taxes to the emperor
How did it transform?
He became an angry, hot-blooded person.
Even ethnic groups with extremely strong exclusiveness?
Truly treating the Han ethnicity as a political entity
Invented
He was a revolutionary in the late Qing Dynasty and early Republic of China.
Zhang Taiyan, Zou Rong, Sun Yat-sen and their generation
In the late Qing Dynasty, an era filled with internal and external troubles
Revolutionaries wanted to overthrow the Qing Dynasty
Establish a modern nation
But they face a huge communication problem.
Unable to have a braid
Moreover, the illiterate lower classes spoke
Inherent human rights
Republican constitutionalism
They neither understand nor are interested.
So how can we achieve the fastest speed?
How to mobilize 400 million people?
then
Revolutionaries from the West
Especially from Japan
A simple and crude approach was introduced.
But it is also a fairly effective mobilization tool
That is, social Darwinism and race theory
We can read it.
Famous bestsellers of that era
This refers to the revolutionary novel "The Revolutionary Army" by Zou Rong.
See how he argues for the legitimacy of the revolution.
He did not discuss individual rights in the book.
It also did not discuss constitutionalism and republicanism.
Instead, it's about natural selection.
He wrote in the book
Earth has only two species, yellow and white, fighting each other.
In the realm of celestial evolution
He viewed the world as a cruel arena.
Between ethnic groups
Biological competition that's all about life and death.
Based on this law of the jungle
He defined the Han people as the noble Han imperial race.
The original owner of this land
The Manchu rulers were defined as Siberian people, Tungusic.
They are savage alien species from the north.
In order to incite the anger of the Han people
Zou Rong used a humiliating metaphor
He said if you have a father's killer
You acknowledge him as your father.
Everyone will criticize you
If a robber breaks into your house
They seized your property
Your family has been enslaved
You actually didn't resist.
Then you're just a walking corpse.
Zou Rong shouted loudly
The Han Chinese would rather be exterminated
We cannot be slaves of the Manchus.
This is a mobilization built on humiliation.
He passed
Constructing a perfect image of a Han Chinese victim
To create a huge psychological gap
We were originally extremely distinguished masters.
They are descendants of the emperor.
Descendants of the gods
They are worthy of being the masters of the 20th century.
But they were trampled underfoot by a lowly alien race.
In this narrative
All the suffering endured by the Han people
It's not because of the backwardness of the system.
It's not because of cultural decay.
And it was simply because of an accident that they lost.
All sins
Each has a specific person responsible for it, the Manchu people.
so
At the end of the article
He shouted the famous slogan, "Those who are not of our kind!"
Their hearts must be different.
certainly
We know
This argument is illogical.
The Qing Dynasty inherited the system of the Ming Dynasty.
Moreover, it is this autocratic system invented by the Han people.
Successors and promoters
for example
The Manchu Qing dynasty itself did not adhere to a taboo system.
At that time, some Han Chinese ministers suggested that Shunzhi implement this system.
It can deify imperial power
For example, Emperor Shunzhi's name was Fulin.
Subjects should avoid using the character "福" (fu, meaning good fortune).
But Shunzhi said it couldn't be because of me alone.
Let the world be without fortune.
This system was strictly implemented starting with the Kangxi Emperor.
In fact, many of the systems of the Ming Dynasty
Both were more barbaric and regressive than the Yuan and Qing dynasties.
For example, the Ming Dynasty's imperial clan system
They created a massive parasitic class.
Hundreds of thousands of royal family members are scattered throughout the country
They seized land everywhere.
Monopoly Business
And possesses judicial privileges
It directly bankrupted the Ming Dynasty's finances.
For example
Zhu Yuanzhang sought absolute control over society.
It has greatly promoted what is equivalent to the national military
The serfdom system of military colonies
National User Registration System
tying millions of people to the land generation after generation
Soldiers not only serve in the military
Moreover, they are required to routinely undertake farming, transportation, and labor services.
No freedom of movement
And they can never get rid of their citizenship.
And this must be done for generations to come.
This is equivalent to the state's slavery.
Although the Yuan Dynasty was criticized as barbaric
However, the area of ​​military farmland during the Yuan Dynasty was only 170,000 hectares.
The area of ​​military farmland during the Ming Dynasty increased dramatically to millions of hectares.
In an era when a commodity economy should have been developed
Zhu Yuanzhang, however, greatly strengthened
State control and interference with personal rights
Therefore we say
This kind of late Qing Dynasty
A Han Chinese historical perspective based on anti-Manchu sentiment
Although it was driven by political utilitarianism and revolutionary mobilization
But from the day he was born...
It is not based on freedom and equality
Above the love of civil rights
Instead, it is based on biological hatred of other races.
This victim narrative is a double-edged sword.
It awakened the slumbering Han people to overthrow the Qing Dynasty.
But it's also like poison.
It has seeped into the very marrow of Chinese nationalism.
However, this radical theory of filling the gaps
At the moment the Qing emperor abdicated in 1912
Suddenly it became a hot potato
If we follow the logic of the revolutionaries...
Expel the Tartars
Restoration of China
That means as long as the eighteen provinces of Han China
As for Northeast China, Mongolia, Xinjiang, and Tibet
Those are all foreign territories.
They should be allowed to go independent.
If we insist on pure Han nationalism
China acquired its vast territory through the inheritance of the Qing Dynasty.
It's about to fall apart
Therefore, Sun Yat-sen emphasized the concept of a republic of five races.
Han, Manchu, Mongol, Hui, and Tibetan peoples are all part of the Chinese nation.
Everyone should be equal.
Integrating into the unified Chinese nation
However, this adapts to the needs of the times
The Chinese nation that emerged in response to the times
In fact, it's just another empty concept.
Why is it described as hollow?
Because it was designed to take into account united front work and territorial integrity.
And the existing political compromise
Rather than a naturally developed cultural identity
For the Han Chinese at that time
It's like a...
Arranged marriages without any emotional foundation
So that this big family will not be divided
The Han people suppressed the nascent Han imperialist passion.
Embrace the enemy you were cursing yesterday
This integration lacks a civil contract as its foundation.
There is also no cultural or bloodline as the soil
The result was that it became a huge political shell.
However, the subsequent War of Resistance against Japan
Let Chinese people's national identity
It was integrated once again.
During the 14-year war
Faced with the invasion of a powerful foreign enemy
That originally loose and disorganized Chinese society
They were squeezed into a whole by immense external violence.
Whether it is farmers in Sichuan
Or a citizen of Shanghai
They finally shared a common experience.
That is fear and hatred towards the Japanese.
But this kind of nationalism remains reactive.
It is not based on internal
It has generated a certain shared set of modern civic values.
Rather, it was based on the instinct to avoid extinction.
This cohesion based on victim narratives
Although powerful
But it has a weakness.
That is, once the external enemy disappears...
The internal cracks will then become visible.
The year was 1949.
At this time, China's ethnic relations became even more complex.
In his book, *The Empire of Affirmative Action*, Martin...
Through a study of Soviet national policies
The discovery that the Soviet Union was a major ethnic group
Countries with reverse discrimination
Lenin and Stalin back then
And later, China adopted the Soviet model wholesale.
In order to maintain the unity of the multi-ethnic empire
They have a core judgment
The Empire's Greatest Threat
Separatism not of ethnic minorities
Rather, it is the chauvinism of the dominant ethnic group.
Why do I say that?
Because the dominant ethnic group is too large.
Without restrictions
It will naturally leverage its economic and cultural advantages
Eat up marginalized ethnic groups
This will provoke fierce resistance from marginalized ethnic groups.
Leading to the disintegration of the empire
So in order to avoid those
They were just scared away by the ethnic minorities in the border areas who had been brought in through the united front.
The dominant ethnic group as the elder brother
A sacrifice in terms of posture must be made.
So we see
At the beginning of the founding of the nation
"Criticizing Han chauvinism"
It has become an extremely frequently used political term.
Mao Zedong spared no effort in opposing Han chauvinism
Even Han chauvinism
The Kuomintang ideology, which was characterized as reactionary
then
China replicated the Soviet model
Five autonomous regions were established
Promote localization policy
Promotion of ethnic minority cadres
Conduct large-scale ethnic identification
The logic behind this operation is very clear.
By suppressing the Han people in form
Grant ethnic minorities certain dignity and privileges
In exchange for their political
Absolute loyalty to the central government
However, this carefully designed policy
Ultimately, it turned into a situation where neither side was satisfied.
This is similar to how the Soviet Union criticized Great Russian chauvinism.
But all the constituent republics of the Soviet Union
Still clearly know
The center of power is in Moscow
The common language is Russian.
The Russians are the dominant force in the military.
Similarly, in China after 1949
Despite policy
Ethnic minorities were given preferential treatment.
But this did not truly win the gratitude of the ethnic minorities.
Because the underlying factor in all of this is still Han Chinese dominance.
From the perspective of ethnic minorities
All of this and
Not a contractual right
Rather, it comes from the powerful and patriarchal bestowal.
Or perhaps it's a tool to highlight ethnic harmony.
The first characteristic of a gift is that it can be withdrawn at any time.
Since it was given to you by your older brother
Big brother can take it back whenever he wants.
Secondly, it is humiliating.
This special care
This is precisely what reminds the other party: you are weak.
It is backward
It requires our strong entity to take care of it.
As Professor Drew said in Dislocating China
The contents of this book
"Internal Orientalism"
Under this system
The relationship between Han Chinese and ethnic minorities
Being locked into a state of "watching" and "being watched".
The relationship between subject and object
Think back to when everyone...
Propaganda posters or Spring Festival Galas from the 1950s to the 1980s
The image of ethnic minorities is always fixed.
Wearing bright traditional clothing
A talented singer and dancer
Sensual, primal, colorful
The image of the Han people
Or rather, the image of Han Chinese state cadres
They were wearing modern clothes.
Rational, secular, progressive
Go to help and save them
If it weren't for that backward, poor, and superstitious
The Tibetan or Yi people who need poverty alleviation should be used as a reference.
That image of an advanced, scientific, and selfless Han Chinese elder brother
It can't stand up
Therefore this system
ethnic minorities
molded into a child who needs to be cared for
And we are the kind parents.
Parents can give their children candy.
But parents will never allow their children to be independent.
And would never think
Children are equal adults to us.
For the Han Chinese
This feeling is even worse.
When Han Chinese are told "Your ancestors were oppressors"
You must now atone for your sins.
"We need to make concessions"
The Han people must first destroy their own clans.
Ancestral graves and traditions
To prove the thoroughness of the revolution
The traditions of ethnic minorities
Then they were targeted as united front work objects.
It was carefully protected.
Especially as the political movement intensified
The Cultural Revolution broke out in 1966.
The official attempt to use communist ideals
Completely replace traditional culture
In "Smash the Old World"
Under the slogan of "creating a new world"
The traditional clan structure of the Han Chinese was completely shattered.
Confucian ethics and traditional morality
They were all condemned and denounced as feudal dross.
Many ancestral graves, ancestral halls, family genealogies
They were all completely eradicated at the physical level.
This is an unprecedented cultural cleansing.
But soon
That revolutionary fervor completely faded away.
After the reform and opening up
Chinese national identity
This led to a very awkward situation.
on the one hand
Traditional Chinese culture has been swept away like trash.
The ideals of communism have also faded.
at the same time
That kind of civic consciousness that can unite modern people
For example, freedom, human rights, the rule of law, etc.
And for well-known reasons, it was not established.
When a large nation falls into a spiritual vacuum
Those most primitive, most savage viruses
They will take advantage of the situation.
Explosive reproduction on this ruin
This explains why contemporary Han Chinese historical views exist.
Why is it so popular?
And it exhibits an extremely primitive nature.
and hollowing characteristics
certainly
Some people might say
Chinese traditional culture
Or rather, Confucian culture
Indeed, there are many dregs and ignorant things.
It definitely should be smashed.
But we must admit
For a civilization to evolve
It is never accomplished through destruction.
for example
Neighboring Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan
There has never been a political movement that smashes everything.
This does not prevent them from achieving modernization.
On the contrary, the Khmer Rouge was even more thorough in eradicating traditional culture.
The wounds left on Cambodia
It has not been digested to this day.
This raises the question: What is civilization?
From a psychological perspective
civilization
It's about humans using an increasingly sophisticated system
Increasingly complex symbol systems
For example, etiquette, morality, art, philosophy
To integrate the depths of our hearts
Those most primal instincts
For example, violence, greed, and fear, etc.
This is a long and intricate ecological evolution process.
Like a primeval forest
After thousands of years of evolution
A complex ecosystem has been formed.
certainly
This ecosystem has encountered a huge problem.
However, when you violently remove it...
The remaining ones were not the newcomers one might have imagined.
It is the most primitive and savage.
The most resilient weeds
This is why the Han Chinese historical perspective exists today.
It looks so hollow and primitive
Because of a lack of culture
Therefore, one can only worship pure bloodlines.
Han supremacists are keen on gender testing and genetic analysis.
even
They invented all sorts of absurd theories about the purity of Han Chinese bloodlines.
as if
As long as it can be proven that one's ancestors did not have non-Han ancestry.
One then acquires a kind of sacredness.
contemporary Han chauvinists
They also do not care about or understand true Chinese culture.
They worship pure power.
For example, Qin Shi Huang, Emperor Wu of Han, and Zhu Yuanzhang.
These emperors
It represents absolute violence and unrestricted power.
In a lack of citizens
In the vacuum of contracts and humanistic spirit
Might makes right
As for Western pseudo-historical theories and the theory of the origin of the Ming Dynasty
It resembles a distorted savior complex.
We know
Russia also has a strong messianic complex.
They believe that Russia's suffering and sacrifice
Saved decadent Europe
Although this idea is quite arrogant
But Russia at least has some basis.
for example
Russia has indeed had a profound impact on Europe throughout history.
And China's savior complex
It is entirely based on lies and fabrications.
Its significance for modern civilization
It can be said that he had no real achievements.
But they insist on rewriting history.
Fantasizing that he is the father of modern civilization
This fully demonstrates
When a nation
When unable to establish self-confidence within the dimensions of modern civilization
He will then retreat into the shadows of history.
To worship those most primitive totems
That's all for today's video.
from now on
We will continue to discuss the topic of nationalism.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact me via email.
For example, you want to discuss a certain article with me.
A certain quote, a certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
Or you'd like to discuss your life experiences with me.
Confusion and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions regarding payment and communication methods
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you are unable to pay or become a member
Please also contact me
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will upload this video.
Placed in the list of "History and Society"
I also recommend it to everyone
Go check out other videos in this list
Thank you for watching.
goodbye