[Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts, radio, news. This is Bloomberg Business Week Daily, reporting from the magazine that helps global leaders stay ahead with insight on the people, companies, and trends shaping today's complex economy. Plus, global business, finance, and tech news as it happens. The Bloomberg Business Week Daily podcast with Carol Masser and Tim Stenbec on Bloomberg Radio. One group that has done uh really well today as a whole, we're talking about big banks or banks overall, the KBW bank index, folks, up 2.3%, 22 of the 24 names are higher in today's session. We've had
>> two big ones lower. Two of the big ones are lower. Two of the biggest names on the entire index are lower. Well, this is what's interesting because JP Morgan, Goldman, Wells City, all reporting JP Morgan and Goldman selling off, right? And those are the two names you're talking about and Wells and City Matt are are in.
>> I mean, and you get headlines like JP Morgan beats expectations on every level. Goldman Sachs knocks the cover off the ball. Analysts can't believe how well they did and yet the stocks sell off.
>> But remember, something like JP Morgan has had quite a run this year. So, you know, expectations and reality perhaps. Let's see what our experts have to say. Bloomberg News chief Wall Street correspondent Shinat Rajan's here in studio along with Bloomberg Intelligence, senior analyst for Global Investment Banks and Asset Managers, Allison Williams. Uh, as I said, both in studio. All right, guys. Let's start with JP Morgan because I feel like that's the bank that we want to always hear from. Uh, Allison, let me start with you. What do we need to know about the numbers in JP Morgan's business? Because as Matt says, sometimes the headlines look darn good.
>> And the quarter was darn good. It's just that I think there are some bullish investors out there that wanted more and if you did you know so on today they're underperforming but if you looked at year to date if you look at their valuation if you look at their year to returns uh I'm sorry you look at their profitability all very very good executing well think that you know maybe some people just wanted some more there um Goldman Sachs also strong quarter they did miss on equities trading so um you know these numbers are hard to predict but I think you know most people including myself, you know, if you had seen sort of that that upside would give you sort of further uh confidence in the momentum going into the next quarter. But the M&A advisory business, huge outperformance there. Um we think they probably outperformed most people in the quarter. They're the lead in that revenue. They announced this uh AI program. There's details. You know, we're going to have to wait till January for details, but that signals that efficiency is going to get better. you know, contrast, you know, two companies that are really uh performing very well to two companies that are, I think, have a lot of runway ahead of them, and that's Wells Fargo and City Group.
>> Can I just ask before we get to Sri because I've already asked him like 10 times today. Why do the analysts consistently underestimate um what these banks are doing? And it can't just be to get on the good side of management, right? Um when I see this morning before any earnings came out I saw stories about which bank was going to beat estimates. So when I see bank expected to top estimates I wonder why analysts don't add more to the estimates. What's what what is this game all about?
>> Well first of all trading and when it's capital markets revenue that really is the source of the upside that is very tough and banks are not going to guide you. you know, they don't really have an incentive to guide you because, by the way, like the last couple of days of the quarter could be horrible or you don't know what's going to happen. And so, I think banks are going to tend to guide conservatively. Analysts are going to tend to be conservative, right? Because that um and by the way, like that just is not something that people bake into the run rate. So, as I said, you know, we're positive about the momentum in trading, the asset levels, etc. But I think if you're, you know, forming estimates, you are going to tend to be conservative and that's why you can get upside, especially if the strength comes at the end of the quarter. It's just hard for the estimates to catch up.
>> Yeah, totally get it. Uh, all right. So, we care about JP Morgan's results. We also obsess over everything that Jaime Diamond has to say. He never disappoints with something that is highly quotable. In this case, uh, it was when he was talking about a cockroach. Check it out. Like you should assume that if ever something happens, we need to scour all process, all procedures, all underwriting, all everything. And you know, we think we're okay in other stuff, but I I my my antenna goes up when things like that happen. And I probably shouldn't say this, but when you see one cockroach, there probably more, you know, and so we we should everyone should be foreworn on this one.
>> All right, that of course was Jamie Diamond uh earlier today on uh JPM's earing earnings call. Tree, come on in on this because you're reporting on the quarter and you know, most importantly what Jaime Diamond has to say about the macro.
>> So I again Jaime Diamond has been running the biggest US bank which is which has a bigger market cap today than its three closest rivals combined. He's been doing that for nearly 20 years and he didn't get there and he didn't stay there uh just on the back of sitting on his laurels, right? He is paid to look around the corners and he is right to point out that the underlying numbers might be great. They might be marching toward another record revenue year, but when you see some of these problems, you initially try and dismiss some of them as idiosyncratic, but if enough of them start popping up, that becomes a concern. So that's why when diamond says my antenna goes up when things like that happen we pay attention especially because in the last few days we've been seeing some action in certain corners of the credit market where it does appear that there is some fear seeping into the markets. Diamond specifically flicked at the publicly traded uh BDC's that hold a lot of these private credit investments. And if you look at the discount to the net asset value that they're going at, it it makes you worry about what's happening with some of the other non-traded vehicles. Will there be mass redemptions? And will there be domino effects off of that? And Diamond also points out that he feels like they're feeling very good about everything there. If you look at their numbers, you will not see any cause for stress, dismay, concern. But Diamond is right in saying eventually the cycle turns. And when it does, he thinks that I suspect when there's a downturn,
>> his words, you will see higher than normal downturn type of credit losses in certain categories. And that's an important one to keep in mind because what he's saying is your recovery rates might not be as great as you imagined and that will impact the firms and that'll impact the investors in those firms.
>> I want to ask about uh Wells Fargo. I'm so thankful that uh Bloomberg Radio has such a great program. In the mornings, Nathan Hager and Karen Moscow were talking to you, Allison, before I even got to work yet and I get here pretty early and you were saying this is really going to be the news of the day and it has been the outperformer of the day because
>> can I just say finally?
>> Well, because long
>> so what's the story with Wells Fargo? They raised their return on uh tangible equity.
>> Yep. So, so the the key metric for banks return on tangible common equity valuations, you know, price to book is is how a lot of investors value these banks. It's based on the return on capital. And you know, Charlie Sheriff had said years ago, we're going to put 15% out there as a as a target. We'll revisit it at some point. They're running at 15% year-to date. They up that target to 17 to 18%. Um the asset cap is lifted. They showed a lot of uh progress that they've made, but they also showed some opportunity. And here's uh what I think is interesting. So, one of the biggest areas of opportunity is the consumer unit. Uh when we had uh Lori Beer from JP Morgan, the CIO of JP Morgan, uh talk about where she sees big opportunity. She actually talked about this at JP Morgan's investor day. also the consumer unit also like a lot of the a lot of what she talked about in terms of how technology was going to aid the bank was in the it was productivity in the consumer unit. So we're hearing that from Wells Fargo. So that really gives me confidence that this is a number that they can shoot to. Uh Croup by the way I think you know they're also kind of showing the path right? So, Cityroup talking about the fact that they are sort of twothirds the way there with their transformation and we have Banamax coming um you know it's pushed out a little bit but I think showing you the the path that you know could that be group again talk about an even longer time but could could Jane Frasier finally be the one to get it done
>> and I will point out like with Wells Fargo now up what 8.2% 2% for the day. It's their best day since since election night, since Trump came back to power. This could be Wells Fargo's best day since then. So that is the power of putting a target out there. And I point that out again only because in a couple of weeks you will have Bank of America with their investor day, their first investor day in 15 years. It has also been the worst performing big bank stock this year up only what 14% 14 and change. It is important for Bank of America to approach that investor day with a mindset of providing targets, aspirational targets for the market instead of wanting to go out there. We're trying to explain to investors and analysts what it is that they do because I think investors will tell you they have a good understanding. What they want is better targets and what they want is them achieving those targets otherwise the stock will continue to languish.
>> All right, I do want to mention a headline crossing. We are continuing to monitor uh President Trump there at the White House. He is talking also about Russia and President Putin saying President Putin does not want to end the war. And then going on to say that the Russian economy is going to collapse. So that is certainly another one of the big geopolitical uh events and actions that we've been keeping and something that the president has been trying to bring an end to and talked about that on the campaign trail. But uh again, President Putin doesn't want to end the war. That is the view from President Trump at the White House. I know you had one last question you wanted to
>> Yeah, I wanted to ask Allison about um the best way to value these companies. I was talking with Shri about this on Bloomberg TV earlier and David George from Beard also was saying like look JP Morgan can be a fantastic company and it is um but the stock is just too expensive which is why he doesn't have a buy rating on those shares. And then Shere and I were looking through the price to book. What is the best way? How do the best bank investors um uh look at valuations that that makes the most sense for banks? because I think it's a little different than other equities.
>> It is different because so if you think about banks, right, versus other kind of companies, they use their balance sheet to generate profits. And so that's why return on tangible common equity is a key metric, right? Because the more uh profitability that you can generate using your balance sheet, the more you're willing to pay. So that's a little bit different than PE. You all notice that uh price to book is really favored u in downturns. It's a place where people look for, you know, in terms of, you know, one times price a book is sort of if you if you liquidate the bank, what can I get for this versus the ongoing um returns? And that's why you have companies like Croup trading below tangible book or below book, which um obviously they've made a lot of progress since then, but for a long time um bank was trading at like 20% book value. Well, well, and the European banks, right, because they're they're not earning their cost of capital. So, basically, you're eroding value over time. So, that's sort of the opposite. And so, I think, you know, those are kind of like two two different ways to think about it. By the way, JP Morgan al management also talking about their not liking to buy shares back at this level. I heard that. You know, they're they're pretty daring that they're willing to call that out. Um, but from an equity investor standpoint, that's not really helpful either.
>> Hey, 22nd Street. Uh what do we have? BFA and Morgan Stanley tomorrow. Just quickly what what you're watching out for.
>> We have BFA Mongusani tomorrow. Again, we have analyst expectations set out there. So, we're hoping they'll go and beat them. But which brings us back full circle to Matt's original point, like I don't know what he wants analysts to do. Should they apply a humility premium to when executives guide? If I were if I were estimating someone's earnings, I would try and get it right. And if I got it if I was lowballing it for the last nine out of 10 quarters, I would just add 20%. You're doing it based off of how the executives are guiding you. What do you want? A gut check.
>> Hey kids, take this outside. Okay. All right. We're going to continue this conversation. We will here at Bloomberg as we continue the bank earnings uh throughout the rest of this week. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Business Week Daily coming up after this. You're listening to the Bloomberg Business Week Daily podcast. Catch us live weekday afternoons from 2:00 to 5:00 Eastern. Listen on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App or watch us live on YouTube. All right, everybody. Yes, indeed. Bloomberg Business Week Daily continuing on this Tuesday. Carol Master Tim is off. Isabelle Lee in the house and uh one of the names that we've been keeping a watch on today is AMD at its highs today, up as much as uh almost 4% I should say, finishing the day with a gain of about 8/10 of a percent. uh this after saying Oracle will deploy a large batch of its forthcoming M1450 chips next year. I hope I'm saying it right, but if not, I'm going to check in with Ian King who will set the record straight. Uh the news coming about one week after AMD inked a chip deal with OpenAI that triggered an explosive rally in AMD shares. That stock on October 6 rallying almost 40% intraday that day. AMD, by the way, up around 80% or so uh year to date. So, let's get the latest on his reporting and what AMD and Oracle are up to. Bloomberg News US Semiconductor reporter Ian King with us from our San Francisco News Bureau. Um, Ian, good to have you here with Isabelle and me. Uh, tell us about this deal, what exactly it's all about.
>> Yeah, I mean, the first thing to point out is that these chips don't actually exist yet. This is a planned update of the product line. MI450 is what they're called. Um and these are going to be coming out um sort of this time next year from AMD. And so what the way to look at this is it's an affirmation that from Oracle to AMD that hey you've you guys have got a big role to play in our data centers going forward and this kind of adds on to that open AI um agreement that you already spoken about. So it's it's a futurebased thing but it's a very it's a confirmation that uh AMD is is has a seat at the table here. So what factors make Oracle an attractive partner for AMD and how does this just this collaboration fit with a broader trend of cloud providers securing their own AI infrastructure?
>> Yeah, I mean if you're going to ask me to unravel the uh the spaghetti of of connections between them all, I'm afraid you're talking to the wrong person. But um let's just I mean I think the best way to look at that is to say that Oracle is obviously being enormously aggressive uh spending very heavily trying to push itself trying again to get a seat at the table here to be um a cloud service provider along with the scale that perhaps rivals somebody like Amazon or or a Google. It's clearly not there yet but it sees a future in in deploying this technology and is making a big bet to sort of get there. So naturally, if you're wanting to provide components into that market, having uh you know, some exposure to Oracle being one of their key suppliers is a good move.
>> That's what I was wondering. I always think about this, you know, who gets more out of this deal. Is it equal or is it I love what you said about Oracle being very aggressive, and we've certainly seen Oracle be very aggressive, I feel like, over the last couple of months. But is this more a thing about AMD, more about Oracle, or both? Ian? Yeah, I mean the recent story has I would say had you know obviously there are these big buyers of the chips and we have to see those chip orders made and and those purchases go ahead and that turn into revenue but really AMD you know just to for perspective has less than 2% of the market for accelerators. Guess who has the rest? Nvidia obviously
>> right? So 2% is better than anybody else though um and is still several billion dollars which is very good for for AMD and has certainly bored its fortunes. But is 2% really you know a a sustainable market presence? The answer is probably not. AMD obviously has to evolve from there. Has to get more and more um confidence from these big buyers who frankly, you know, you're not going to get fired for buying an Nvidia system right now if you're a purchase manager because everybody else is. Um why should you take a risk on AMD? So, it's very much up to AMD to sort of create a set of reasons for people to make those bets and it looks like that's happening.
>> And we know that deployment is set to begin next year, expansion 2027 and beyond. Are we expecting any kind of challenges on the part of AMD to ensure maybe timely delivery or managing the supply chain?
>> Yeah, I mean chips are difficult, right? Um you put billions of transistors on a very tiny piece of silicon and something can and will go wrong. But it has to be said in AMD's favor. They have said, "Hey, we'll have a product ready and it's been ready on time. Then we'll have another one ready and it'll be better." And that's come on time. So this isn't the first ever entree for them into this market. this is the you know third or fourth generation of their chips and they have all got better. They all have been delivered on time which is obviously gaining credibility for that company and that company's presence. So yes, a lot can go wrong and and does go wrong for chips but not recently for AMD. Uh if you want to look at things going wrong unfortunately that's been an Intel story, not an AMD story recently. Hey, one of the things Ian, we were just talking with um Kate and Matt over on the T uh TV side and when I mentioned uh AMD as kind of one of the gainers and stocks I was looking at and that the that Oracle will put 50,000 of the semiconductors in data center computers starting in the third quarter of 2026. M like is that even a lot? And so I'm looking at your story where you say in the second quarter AMD shipped about 100,000 AI processors. It seems like 50,000 is a lot. Is it though? Um it really depends where we are at that particular point. In AMD's ideal world, it won't be a huge part of their um of their shipments. And and again, we don't know exactly know how quickly those shipments will be made, but it is significant. This is a major player and that is not a small number. It's not the kind of millions or hundreds of thousands that obviously Nvidia ships, but it is a significant amount.
>> How does this affect Nvidia? Nvidia's current dominance in AI processors. I think Nvidia is still king. Are you expecting this to take into the market share or eat into the market share when it comes to AMD taking to scale production?
>> Yeah, I mean if if you believe uh Nvidia and if you believe everybody else, we're we're on a you know a rocket to the moon, right? That everything is going up, the market is growing at an almost exponential rate and there's room for everybody. So, you know, growth for AMD, even rapid growth for AMD doesn't necessarily take away from what Nvidia is achieving. But can we really believe that? Has there ever been a market that's gone up like this forever? And the answer is obviously not. Um and so at a certain point um can AMD establish a sustainable presence um and create what is frankly at this point the only likely sort of viable competitor to Nvidia um and then perhaps move on from there and actually begin to take market share away from it in a meaningful way. That is definitely uh in the TBD character right now. you know, 1 1.9% whatever market share they're at versus,
>> you know, 98 plus market share percent. That's that's a long way to go before anybody needs to get worried.
>> Yeah. Uh it's a it's a huge gap. Um hey, one of the things I wanted to ask you Ian before we go because I was thinking about yesterday that OpenAI Broadcom deal and um you know it just sent shares of Broadcom rocketing. Um but I also looked at the socks. It made me look at, you know, every name I think was was higher yesterday or almost every one. Same thing today. A lot of names um we've seen actually today was a little bit of a different trade, but it just made me look at the socks which is up 32% year to date. It's up about 75% from midappril. It it I mean does it make sense that every name is higher considering the spend and what is going on?
>> Um yes and no. I mean there's a lot goes into a data center. There are a lot of analog chips, a lot of power converters, a lot of the basic components that are needed to support these, you know, hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of computers. Uh I'm talking about an individual computer. So, yes and no. But ultimately, the real winners here are it's just a handful of companies and we've been talking about them. Broadcom is in that conversation. Nvidia is the absolute beneficiary of this already and AMD is trying to get in there and and is is showing the best potential uh to actually get in there and and be a presence.
>> Well, yeah, and certainly one we were talking about uh in a big way today. Ian, thank you so much. Appreciate uh your reporting finding some time once again for us. Bloomberg News US Semiconductor reporter Ian King out there on the West Coast. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg Business Week Daily coming up after this. You're listening to the Bloomberg Business Week daily podcast. Catch us live weekday afternoons from 2:00 to 5:00 Eastern.
>> Listen on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App or watch us live on YouTube. Well, even so, the world is kind of moving on and we're seeing the new contours of global commerce taking off amid these global tariffs. Let's see what Enda Curran has to say and what it means in terms of the global macro environment. He is Bloomberg News global economy reporter. He joins us from our Bloomberg News Washington DC bureau. And a good to have you here. First off, we do see these Wall Street swings on what's coming out between US and China. Why is this still just remind everybody why is this still the most important global economic relationship in the world or is it starting to kind of change a little bit?
>> Well, they are the two world's uh biggest economies. H they are of course completely interlocked with each other. China is the world's biggest manufacturer, but of course, America is their biggest customer. It's the biggest um consumer market in the world. So, obviously, the trade tensions between them do spill over to everybody kind of caught in the middle of that in terms of supply chains. And and that's what we're we're kind of seeing some reaction or some response now to the rest of the world. And even if your starting point is that yes, we'll always have to do business with America because the consumer is so powerful there, trading partners are kicking tires. And hang on a sec, who else can I do business with? How else can I diversify my markets? China is looking around say buying more agricultural produce from South America as we know, but also its exports are going gang busters to parts of the world other than America. And then those other countries in the middle are saying, you know, who else can we start doing more trade deals with? They're accelerating trade negotiations. They're uh accelerating ways of doing business with each other, looking for new markets. So it's very early stages but um that USChina trade war is starting to poke some change in the global trade
>> you know I mean I think the question is uh the question that JD Vance um probably doesn't have an answer to can China uh be cut off from US trade longer than we can stay solvent because the rare earth minerals that they have we cannot get um in size from anywhere else and we're not going to be able to process them here to refine them here anytime soon. So, you know, Meredith Whitney in a note on Sunday said, um, aside from the massive dependence on the US industrial complex complex for these rare earth metals and magnets, the US military is 100% dependent on them and nearly depleted of its reserves. So, I mean, don't we need them more than they need us right now? Yeah, I think we we're all at a point now where we are fully aware that if there is a vulnerability in the hulkish trade stance that the US is taking on China, it's on rare earth supplies. Um, China is the one digging them out of the ground. China is the one that's taking on the refining risk there, the environmental risk and the cost associated with it at a scale that no other country is doing. And that's why America and everybody else is so reliant on China and getting those minerals out here. And that's why China of course it's well aware of its leverage. It's floated those export controls that it did last week or the week before that of course has sent shock waves not just through the US but the rest of the world too. And China's making clear that it's in control of these. Now this is a policy error though. If you go back maybe 15 years ago there was a big there was a discussion around rare earth supply at that time. There were other options on the table. It's not just China that has these minerals. uh other countries could have put money into the ground and put the money into the resources and the facilities needed to extract these. There are some companies in the US that are talking about or trying to get off the ground at the moment in doing this. H but the point is we're at a stage where China has a grip and a lock on the system to the point where everybody else is years behind. It will take a long time and
>> it's not just getting them out of the ground. Enda I mean I talked to uh industrial CEOs who do business globally and have told me look we've seen the refining process in China and it is horrific. It is the kind of environmental risk that American voters just would not be willing um to take. So no one else can refine them at these levels at least um with today's methods um without sacrificing like a a a portion of humanity. So we're not going to do that are we?
>> Well and that's entirely right environmental risk is a big part of the equation that but there are some companies by the way there are including some in the US who are looking for cleaner ways to do this. So but obviously nothing like on the scale that China currently offers but other countries as well are coming to the table. Pakistan for example is floating itself as a potential partner for these minerals for the US. They can be sourced from other countries too. That's why Argentina is in the mix at the moment when when we talk about the support that the US Treasury is offering Argentina. One of the reasons is because of the minerals Argentina has. So but but yes the point is that no one's doing it on on the scale that China is right now. And until that changes China has leverage over the rest of the global trading system. Hey, I want to go into your story that looks at global trade flows and you look at what shipping shipping companies are seeing and some of the changes, but there's a um a quote in the story, an associate professor of economics at the University of California at Davis, uh Ena Siminoca, and it said this individual saying, "It's very clear that we are redrawing the map of international trade. We're going to see a lot more bilateral trade agreements between countries and subgroups of countries." She predicts this. Um what does that mean for economic growth for individual countries and for the global economy overall? Do we know anything? Is it good? Is it bad?
>> Well, it's early stages, but we're getting we are seeing signs now that countries are looking at accelerating trade negotiations with each other and signing deals with each other. Now, the European Union is one example. They've finally gotten that deal signed with Indonesia. they are getting that big trade uh negotiation with South America Mercer off the ground to try to get that ratified. Other countries are also looking at doing business more with each other like New Zealand and Switzerland and the UAE are among a group who've gotten together and it's kind of a loose trading agreement that they've pulled together over recent months. And the point of all of this is is as I said at the start, it's nobody suggesting the US is not the world's biggest consumer market and that they don't want to do business here. That's not the point. But they're seeing the tariffs going up at the fastest pace since World War II. It's more complicated, more costly for some of the businesses who want to do trade with the US. And they're asking what else can they do to diversify and mix up their supply lands and their and their their their markets. And we're seeing it in Peruvian fruit farmers. They're looking for new alternative markets uh in Lysoto. They're looking for alternative textile markets maybe in Europe and in in Asia. So, you know, as I say, the tariff wall when it's gone up on the US side, it's not about countries not wanting to do business here, but they are certainly kicking tires on where else they can diversify. And that's what these these trade negotiations are getting a shot in the arm as one of one of the professors quoting the article said to us.
>> All right, we're talking with Anduran, global economy reporter at Bloomberg News in our DC bureau. At the same time, we are monitoring uh the White House, the cabinet room. President Trump is there with uh President Malay of Argentina. They uh are having a bilateral lunch and obviously a meeting. We're monitoring uh any headlines that come out of that meeting. In the meantime, you know, and you talk about in this story these bilateral relationships or at least folks that you talk to are talking about a lot more bilateral trade agreements. Who wins though? Big countries, small c countries, middlesized countries. Um is there clear winners and losers on that metric?
>> Well, probably the biggest countries will be the ones who come out of this in better order because you know the system up until now whether one agrees with it or not but the broad system up until a few years ago had been rules of the road set by the World Trade Organization. This is where countries big and small could come together and have their disagreement and argue out their case for whatever their grievance was in the trade world. Um but you know we've moved past that now. we're kind of moving into this bilateral sort of approach to doing trade deals. So when you have a big country, they they are able to set the terms on the table and the smaller country of course has to work around that. And that's where we are. It's not just it's not just the US of course and China is the other big uh player in the global trading system. They as we just spoke about hold the cards in so many areas now when it comes to not just rare earths but they're the world's you know factory. So they also will set terms and and countries are worried about China's volume of exports and trying to compete against China too given the scale and uh competitiveness of which they can produce uh products versus other countries. So the big picture is better for bigger countries tougher for smaller countries.
>> All right and current thank you so much on today's news and his story global economy reporter at Bloomberg News. You can read the entirety of it. It's on the Bloomberg and bloomberg.com. Stay with us. More from Bloomberg BusinessWeek Daily coming up after this. You're listening to the Bloomberg Business Week daily podcast. Catch us live weekday afternoons from 2:00 to 5:00 Eastern. Listen on Apple CarPlay and Android Auto with the Bloomberg Business App or watch us live on YouTube.
>> I'm driving.
>> How about you let me drive?
>> Oh, no, no, no, no. This is not a toy.
>> Who's going to drive you home?
>> Honey, please. I'll do the driving.
>> Drive home.
>> Excuse me. I want to drive.
>> It's the question that drives us.
>> This is the drive to the close.
>> The funky music will drive us till the dawn
>> on Bloomberg radio. All right, folks. Let's get to it. Uh we've got about 18 minutes to go until we wrap up the trade on this Tuesday. Carol Master along with Isabelle Lee. Tim is off this week and we've got a market that's just rolling over its best levels of the session. So, what does that mean? We're down about 12 points on the S&P 500 and we've got the NASDAQ 100 which is uh been under more pressure today. It's down about 2/3 of 1%. It's down about 161 points. I look at the S&P 500 though. Uh Isabelle, still most names in the index are higher today. Can I talk about crypto?
>> You can talk about crypto.
>> Bitcoin is down by more than 3% and Ether is the one leading the broader downturn. Actually, it's the largest altcoin. It's down by almost 5% wiping out really billions since the biggest 1-day industry drop on Friday.
>> It's been We've seen crypto under pressure as of late, right? A lot of pressure and that really raises a question of we thought this was the haven, but then it's behaving like a risk asset.
>> It's really funny because I feel like Yeah, we see it. Exactly. Exactly. We see it kind of following the markets really closely. Hey, let's get to uh some of the earnings that we saw today. Uh we've talked about the big banks uh so far that were out early this morning. Another one that came out is Black Rockck. Stocks up about three and a half% in today's session. Uh rling is the world's largest fund manager pulled in 205 billion of client money in the third quarter and expanded its footprint in private credit and alt assets. As we drive to the close, Kathy Seafford is with us. She's vice president of CFR research. She covers Black Rockck. She joins us from New Jersey. Kathy, good to have you here uh with Isabelle and me. Um, Black Rockck investors like what they got from the company. Uh, tell me about it. This company massive sees so much. They continue to grow. Um, do you like what you heard from the company?
>> Yes, I do. And I have a buy recommendation on Black Rockck and I was encouraged by what I heard on the call and also in the numbers they reported. And basically um Black Rockck laid out a strategy of basically having three pillars of growth. strong ETF um a strong ETF offering and strong ETF inflows, an increased exposure to alternative assets and an enhanced suite of offerings in its technology services business um trademarked Aladdin. And in the quarter we saw basically it hitting on all of those cylinders. Um, you know, the market has been decent this quarter and I think a lot of asset managers are going to see their assets under management grow because of decent market performance. But it's important to see who's bringing in or who's, you know, who's producing organic growth, who's bringing assets in the door. And in that, you know, on that score, Black Rockck really hit it out of the park this quarter. So you detailed the three pillars driving the growth, but what caught my eye is that private markets and tax services revenue now exceed those from ETFs and fixed income. And I'm an ETF reporter, so this really caught my antenna. Was that outcome anticipated or were you expecting that?
>> Well, that growth that we saw in the quarter is basically there's some year-to-year bumps because of the inclusion of some acquisitions. um that's not likely to be a run rate, but nevertheless um one of the strategies at Black Rockck is to increase revenue contributions from both um their technology business and um their private market business. And you know, if you'll recall, they've spent the last couple of years pretty aggressively acquiring really pipelines in the private market and alternative asset space through which they can grow product. I mean, I think they did it very intelligently and I think what we saw this quarter was the fruits of their labor, which is a positive. Speaking of private markets, we saw that fees there have grown around 136% year-over-year through third quarter of 2025. How sustainable is that growth, especially as we enter this really challenging macro and economic macro and rate environment? Well, I mean that growth is not a run rate and it reflects a contribution from acquisitions, but I do think that they can produce on a firmwide basis mid teen revenue growth, which is significantly greater than many of their peers. And if you look at the asset management space on one end of the spectrum, you have kind of the traditional longonly asset managers, many of whom are bleeding assets and you have the private equity firms that have had really good performance, but recently have struggled a little bit because there's some, you know, issues with realizations and whatnot. Sort of in the middle of that is um Black Rockck, which is sort of a hybrid of both models. So I think the private um or the alternative asset revenue contribution will enhance overall revenue growth but the ETF business which is very deep and very broad and also has made a number of innovations. Um you were talking about crypto before Black Rockck B brought in more crypto assets than some of its competitors brought in firmwide in this quarter. So you know their suite of ETFs is really unmatched and you have the combination of those two things really widens the competitive edge or the competitive moat around Black Rockck when you look at alts uh crypto and then traditional assets. Is it just a moment of time or just um before we start to see alts and crypto on par with traditional assets?
>> What in what way do you mean on par? terms of making up their overall asset composition in terms of assets under management. So I'm just saying as we see the growth we you know we know we hear from Larry Frink and from Black Rockck overall about the importance of private markets, private credit. So I'm just curious if you see a moment in time um or are we already there? Also what 663 billion of client assets. So I guess we're kind of there or close to it, right? We're close to it, but I don't I mean I don't necessarily know if Black Rockck is um for is necessarily um you know wanting that mix to shift that much. I mean there is there is a positive to having alternative assets. They tend to not be um as correlated to the broader markets as you know equities and fixed incomes are. But you know for Black Rockck it was important because the the ETF business was becoming increasingly commoditized. Fee structures were pretty rapidly decelerating. Um shifting into alts and private credit uh you know achieve several goals. Um it enhances their competitive position but it also enhances their revenue growth which is important.
>> Is there any question that wasn't answered for you? Just got about 25 seconds. Um, no. I think the the one, you know, the one issue at um at Block Rock is a succession issue. I don't think Glarink is leaving anytime soon, but that's always, you know, that's kind of always an issue and sort of what executive changes they're going to make to sort of bolster their operations um amid this this asset mix shift.
>> All right, going to leave it on that note. Kathy, great to get some time with you. Kathy Seaffort, she's vice president CFR research uh covering Black Rockck as she mentioned at the top. Uh she does have a buy rating on the stock. Black Rockck shares up 3.6%. Do you want to share on a competing network? Uh Black Rockck CEO Larry Frink said AI is not a bubble but there will be failures. And he said uh on AI in terms of I guess their own spending. This is capital that is mostly well spent.
>> I know right.
>> Yeah. Time will tell. This is the Bloomberg BusinessWeek Daily podcast available on Apple, Spotify, and anywhere else you get your podcasts. Listen live weekday afternoons from 2 to 5:00 p.m. Eastern on Bloomberg.com, the iHeart Radio app, TuneIn, and the Bloomberg Business App. You can also watch us live every weekday on YouTube, and always on the Bloomberg terminal. [Music]