A lot of my friends that I grew up with were going to jail or ended up dead or shot in the streets. So, I fell victim to doing illegal stuff. But it was the moment that we got arm robbed where I have a gun to my head now. And once I saw the barrel of that gun being pointed at me, that was the moment I noticed, okay, if I survive this, I'm going to become a comedian or die trying. My comedy comes from that place of a healing, wanting to make our situation better at home. Like one time I watched my brother get beat for wetting the bed. It was a lot. So I would always try to step in to try to be like a coping mechanism for him. Maybe it's my mom. So I knew I was funny. I knew I was very entertaining. But it didn't hit me until like college. And I started to figure out, okay, wow, all the people I look up to are all like comedic legends and I feel more connected to them than anything I've ever felt in my life. That is my purpose. So, I left college. I went home. I wrote all these goals down on the sheet of paper. Now, I'm locked in. I have no other option. I'm sitting here in a room, no mattress. My car got repossessed. I actually made that like a content piece. But I feared nothing because I'm like, I have nothing left. But I knew I'm like, I'm going to keep going. I'm going to continue to keep pursuing, making videos. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And then the thing that changed my life was Drake calling for the laugh now cry later music video. Everything shifted after that. Interesting. I had this crazy story that they accidentally sent you Jim K's money. No, that they sent an email showing how much he would be getting paid for that hour. People are saying it was in the region of insane. I hope he didn't see mine cuz that would have been a little bit embarrassing.
>> And then in March, you did a skip and it did hundreds of millions of views and then it sounded like Trump did ask to sue you.
>> I don't know if that's true. I'm not looking to get sued by nobody. I'm not looking forward to
>> Who is he talking about?
>> Uh before this episode starts, I have a small favor to ask you. Two months ago, 61% of the people that watch this channel weren't subscribed. We're now down to 58%. My goal is 50%. So, if you've ever liked any of the videos we've made on this channel, if you like this channel, can you do me a small quick favor and hit the subscribe button? It helps this channel more than you know, and the bigger the channel gets, the more we can invest in the guests and the production. Thank you and enjoy this episode. Trusky, I I really believe that to understand somebody somebody who is an anomaly, and you very much are an anomaly, you first have to sort of understand their earliest context. And I went through all of these old photos of you as a as a young boy.
>> Um to try and build some of that context in my in my own head. Um
>> Sure.
>> What is it that most people might not know about that earliest context that's most informative to sort of who you are today?
>> What remains?
>> I still literally feel like this little boy in all these pictures. It's like I see these moments and it reminds me of how free I was able to be as a kid. And I wanted to be so much. And my mom and my grandparents, they always supported me being just open and free and having this. What is that right there?
>> That was uh your dad and your brother.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My dad and my brother right here for sure. Even looking at these pictures, I had no idea around this time who I was going to become. This is this is dope. How did you get these pictures by the way? Where did you find all this? till my mom send you these.
>> I was looking through some of the the videos that your parents recorded of you at that time.
>> And you've got like
>> it's hard.
>> Do you have any more questions about me?
>> About your teacher and how you doing at school?
>> Great. build. I was just
>> That's me in character right there. That's literally in character.
>> So, she would put on these these camcorders to let me be free. So, that was like my outlet to be able to do these characters and and and be myself, you know?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I have multiple videos. I know you probably got more. There's one of me in a in a diaper like rapping. That's another crazy
>> I was in church. This was last week.
>> Yeah, that's my cousin Bri.
>> Oh my god.
>> What did you come up with? Those those balls.
>> Nah, it just that's the beginning of Could have been records, right? Nah, th those are the moments, you know, we used to put on these performances for my family and I'm just grateful that we were able to be ourselves and and and I was able to be supported somewhere because you do get confused in these settings, sort of to say, you know, you look like you have something to say to that.
>> You know, I've interviewed a lot of comedians and one of the things that I tend to find is that comedy is some sort of like tool. And when I spoke to Jimmy Carr or some of these other comedians that I've interviewed, they're always able to sort of understand in that early context how they were using that tool to often solve a problem that they had in that context. So I remember Jimmy saying to me, he goes, "You often think of comedians as being depressed, but actually for him it was a case of comedy was a way to help his mom who was depressed. It was like how he saw her smile."
>> Yes.
>> Was comedy for you at that age at tool?
>> Very much so. Very much so. I I and I speak about my dad cuz he was one of those tough guys to deal with around that time. He wanted us to figure it out early and like my dad was like the lead person of pushing that narrative. My mom somewhat would do it but she would always try to tell him relax. It's you know he's still he's still a kid like he's I'm at the time like 8 n years old and my dad was like what do you want to do? Figure it out. You're either going to go to jail, you find a a craft or or you're going to end up in a warehouse or something. You got to figure out um whatever you're going to do, or you go to the military, get your ass blown off. And that was the only three options.
>> He said, "Get your ass."
>> Yes. So, imagine me at like 8, nine years old. Those are my three options. Is school, find a trade, or you go to the military, get your ass blown off, cuz we're going back to war. He was always talking about we're going back to war. are we going back to war? And I'm like, what the Are we going to war? Like, so, so early on, he pushed that he wanted me to figure it out. And he had great lessons, but his teaching skills was was very tough and physical. You know, he's old school. I'm sure you heard it before. He's very old school about his teachings and how he goes about doing it. So, he has a short temper. Immediately he asked he used to ask these rhetorical questions all the time of like he'll be like go get me a Phillips screwdriver and I'll go get a regular screwdriver. He's like this is not a Phillips screwdriver. Bam. Upside the head. Then my brother goes he's like I want you to go get me a Phillips screwdriver. My brother goes and get a hammer. The dumbest right and he would come back and bam upside the head. So that was like the immediate of teaching. It's not the best way of teaching.
>> And from an early age, I learned that
>> speaking to other people's fathers and parents, I learned that this is not a normal thing.
>> And I didn't know that until we would go to like neighborhood parties and stuff and maybe my dad would be like, "Oh, these my boys right here." He'll reach out his hand and we'll flinch like that because it became a a normal thing for him to always lift up his hand like if we said the wrong thing. So, I wouldn't say that my comedy necessarily came from that, but it definitely came from like a healing, wanting to make our situation better at home. It's not like we we don't come from a like a broke home. I ain't going to say we wasn't a broken We were a broken home. We weren't a broke home.
>> My dad was a airline pilot for United Airlines for entirely my whole younger life. Um, my mom worked for the CDC. Very two good jobs. Um, my mom was always home. My dad would travel in and out. But I think what I wanted to do and my personality as a kid was always to make the family smile. No matter through all this stuff that we're going through and these teachings being too far sometimes or maybe this ass whooping was too much, the ass whooping went too far because I don't got I'm not going to get into details on here, but we had some ass whoopers in the house that went too far. Um, but yeah, I think I I I feel like my comedy comes from that place of I never tend to punch down. I like to find the funny but also the good side of funny and not look at the negative for my type of comedy. I can find a negative situation and bring the funny out of it for both sides, me and the other person.
>> So, I I guess as a child, very perceptive children, you you're you're on edge a little bit then. For sure.
>> And it's funny cuz I remember sitting with Gab Mate and him telling me how kids that have an early context where they are they have to be a little bit more
>> um aware.
>> Yeah.
>> They often become very good at observation.
>> Yes.
>> And they very they become good therapists. They become the most empathetic.
>> They also sometimes have struggles with mental health because being hypervigilant or being aware comes at a cost. It's not free. For all the upsides, there's always a downside.
>> Does any of that resonate? 1,00%, man. And I think sadly in my brother's case, that went a negative direction. He was diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder as we continued to go through puberty and got older. Whereas for me, I feel like I might have found a coping mechanism with comedy and maybe he never found that coping mechanism from that trauma. And I feel like trauma can sometimes give you the the good route or the negative route. And I feel like a lot of that going on in our house early on may have played a role in him being diagnosed with that. And yeah, that's the that's the sad side of the story. But yeah, I I even with him like I think early on I would always try to make him laugh because I knew we were in a up situation. One time I watched my brother get beat for wetting the bed and it was the simplest thing and I couldn't understand. I was like why is he like like getting beat this bad? It was very far very not the normal belt type thing. It was very very far. So I would always try to step in either after or during these moments to try to be like a coping mechanism for him or like maybe it's my mom and and he's arguing with her and they're getting physical as well. So, I would always try to be, oh, the funny guy, maybe at the dinner after or maybe after the next day goes by and I'm trying to lift everybody's vibe up. Um, so you watched your mother get hit as well.
>> For sure. For sure. For sure. Not not physically hit, but I've seen different things of like the choking and, you know, pushing her out the door and then locking the door and then I got to go and be the one staring at her at the door and she's like, "Open it." And he's like, "You better not open that door." and I'm in between a rock and a hard place trying to figure out do I open this door with my mom or is he going to come? So I it it was a lot of different situations of trying to figure it out at a very young age and and and it started so young that I some back to some things are kind of blurry for me. But I do know that my comedy comes from that comforting type of space. I can read a room and and sense any type of danger. I can read a room and sense any type of happiness, sadness, anything in any situation. Somebody could be mentally ill, somebody can be physically hurt, somebody could be anything. And I always have been a good judge of character as well. So I feel like that has helped me in my career for sure.
>> There's two things I wanted to add to that. Part of the reason I noticed this, obviously I've sat here 700 times or something doing these interview and you're one of the first people to stop mid conversation as you were speaking and say,
>> "You look like you had something to say there, Steve."
>> Yeah.
>> Because you were looking at my face. Yeah, I can read.
>> People don't usually do that.
>> So, it's funny cuz I meet some people who are much more aware of me.
>> You know, some people there are just talking and they're giving their answers to my questions. And then there's this other very rare group of people, often comedians, who I almost feel like I'm speaking to them even when I'm just sat here thinking because they're like hyper aware in that sense. And you just did that to me. So, I thought, "Oh, he is super super aware."
>> Which kind of correlates to everything, you know, you were saying there.
>> For sure. For sure.
>> But it always comes at a cost.
>> Yes, I agree.
>> All gifts do. I sat with um I think it was Michael Jordan's trainer
>> um who also then trained Kobe and he said to me, he goes, "Our dark sides are linked to our light sides." So the things people clap for are inherently linked to the re the things that we then struggle with.
>> Yeah.
>> That that's true for yourself. I'm presuming
>> very true. And I think through life I've learned that not all teachers have the best way of teaching, which I speak on his lessons. like he had many of lessons that were really good and on the positive side of life where I had to eventually come to
>> sources and just tell myself like wow like I cannot look for more success and look for the light at the end of the tunnel without forgiving any and everything in my past and that came with having to forgive my father in my head and also to him face to face of like it's all we just let it all go And I think that helped me continue to move forward and h not have any grudges. Grudges can really hold a lot of weight on you. Maybe his mother was abusive to him or um his upbringing was in a different type of area in the world where it's like northeast DC, very trauma neighborhood that's very like, you know, a negative place to grow up in. And he's from like the project buildings of that. But yeah, I I think the lessons he had were very good. He always talked about not halfassing anything. If you're going to do something, do it all the way. If you're going to mop the floor, don't just do this side of it. Do it like this. If you're going to clean the dishes, do all the dishes. Don't just don't half ass rinse it and then put it in there. But his lessons would be over the top. He's going to break the dishes if you do it. He's going to throw it up in the air and watch it crash on the ground and then he's yelling to the highest he could yell and it's just so there used to be a lot, you know, and I think it it almost like you know people talk about you like how can I be broken if I've already been broken at an early age? And I and I kind of feel that way like people like oh it's not too much of a burden on you in your career. It's not too much. I'm like, how could I be broken if I feel like I've already gone to my furthest extent? I I I I can only continue to push myself to higher levels because I I feel like I've gone through everything that could be the worst possible situation at least in my brain.
>> Yeah.
>> But yeah, he had very good lessons and and always had quotes and sayings on things like I actually have to bring it up. It it's but it's confusing because at a at a at an early age I had no idea. Oh, okay. It only takes one. Wo I really this up to negate 10 attab boys. I have no idea. Still to this day, I get confused. But I understood. Let me tell you when I understood that. I understood that as life went on and I started to notice a lot of my friends that I grew up with and the area I grew up in were going to jail or falsely being accused of things or ended up being dead or shot in the streets. And like we seen a lot of that stuff cuz I I come from a neighborhood where it's this suburb, but it also had a mixture of the real Atlanta in there as well. But yeah, so these things were very confusing to me early on. But as I continued to grow in life, every single lesson that he had taught me and that he had told and talked about and constantly over over again spoke on it started to come back to me in my later years of life. And I began to grow an appreciation for it after I forgave him for, you know, all these, you know, past trauma situations and everything that happened. But yeah,
>> and when you say forgive, are you do you have a good relationship with him now?
>> Yes. Very, very good.
>> For sure. Um, yeah. And I think you just you in anything in life, you have to move on from things and continue to push. I think you can you can never grow to do great things without looking back and being like, "Okay, I have to close the door on this. I cannot hold this grudge." Cuz if you hold a grudge, you got to think about what a grudge is. A grudge is on you as a burden. That's a burden to everything. It's not just physical. It's a mental thing that can really rot people's brain out. It's a thing. I'm sure you probably, you know,
>> of course. Yeah. But a lot of people think of forgiveness as letting them win or justification
>> or they feel like a loser because, oh, I'm not going to forgive them for that. I'm never I'm hold that grudge to the death. It's like, yo, you're not helping yourself. That's actually a a you thing. That has nothing to do with them or what they did. If you if you hold on to that, that's a forever thing for you.
>> And uh one of the things that will give you is great resilience, I imagine. Um and you talked about it there. You said, "How can anything break me when I've already been broken to the fullest extent?"
>> Again, with that comes a set of issues you contend with as an adult. I mean, I experienced it myself, which is you if if my parents were quite um there wasn't a lot of love between them.
>> So, I I one of the lessons I inherited was that relationships look like this and this isn't necessarily a great thing that I want,
>> right?
>> So, I swerved relationships at every opportunity I was presented. I'd pursue people and then the minute they turned to me and said, "You want to be in a relationship?" I was like, "Too much." Yeah, I was like too much. Yeah, I've seen this before. This is I'm getting away from this now. I know where this goes. I know what you mean. I I I deal with that as well for sure. I know exactly what you mean.
>> Yeah.
>> Have you Have you you've experienced that yourself as well?
>> Yes. I I feel like I continuously have grown a relationship with women in a way where I feel like I almost get scared with getting too close. kind of like how you explain because of maybe I haven't seen the successful home of two parents or people in a relationship. Yeah. Maybe I haven't seen it with my own two eyes to work. And I feel like that kind of does hinder me a little bit because it it it does come in between when I I feel these feelings for this girl and I almost jump back immediately as soon as they're like, "No, no, I don't trust it because I know what this comes with." And they're like, "Yo, what do you what do you mean? We never we didn't even get a chance to fully." And I don't know. It's it's a natural mind thing that happens to me and I still to this day I have no idea if you want to be my my doctor for this. No, no. I just I'm just hypothe I have no idea why. I feel like that has something to do with it. Maybe I haven't seen it in a way that's healthy
>> and that might be the reason why. But I still that's a that's a question that I need answered.
>> If I spoke to someone that you were in a relationship with and I said to them, "Is Drew affectionate?"
>> You laughing. You know the answer. You start
>> No, no, no. I I feel like they they would tell you that I am until I'm not. And I I eventually just I just pull out like I I pull back. I like I almost feel
>> once I I get too close, I can't trust it.
>> It's just It's almost like a magnet when you reverse it on the other side. It's like when it comes too close, it starts to repel itself. That's how I feel when it comes to me getting more and more closer with the female. Yeah.
>> Mhm. That makes sense. I think that's what I experienced up until I was about 27 years old.
>> Sure. And
>> but I'm 31 still experience.
>> Yeah, this ain't about that. It ain't about that.
>> YOU GOT TO FIND A WIFE. You have to find a wife. You have to find a wife.
>> No, it it'll happen. It'll happen.
>> Does it does it matter increasingly as you become more successful to you? Do do you think more about it and as you go?
>> It's just it's hard to trust after you become I think when you're when you when you're kind of successful at the beginning. It's not hard to trust. You're just like, "Yo, she likes me for me, but also she can still like me for this celebrity I am." And kind of 50/50. But as you become more and more successful, you have this doubt in your mind like this could absolutely be her in love with just Duski and not Drew at all.
>> Is that just a convenient excuse for the whole avoidant?
>> No, no, no. I'm I'm serious. I I I promise. Like it's it's a question in every superstar's mind. I guarantee you even with when they are with somebody fully they still have a question in the back of their mind. Does this person just love the superstar of me?
>> That's so interesting. And it does bother somebody who is super successful because you see all these people will scream and and chase you and you have a show or maybe a meet and greet and you see how people react to you or you go on the street and you almost want you want to believe that this person that you're dating also is genuine like how these fans are like, "Yo, okay, maybe she just loves me for me. Maybe this is uh not kind of like how the fans are just loving me for that." You want her to believe that this is the same type of real thing. But it's hard to believe after you see all of this stuff. You only know me for that. You didn't meet me when I was just at home living with my mom, broke on the sofa. You know what I'm saying? Like, you didn't see the real side of who I actually am.
>> You know, if you get what I'm saying. You see the You see the new personality.
>> Mhm.
>> Sort of say. Yeah.
>> It's tough. stuff out here, man. Could have been love.
>> Could have been love.
>> So, you go off um you go off to college and you um you last was it two semesters before you dropped out?
>> Yeah. No, I I I I started at a at a a a school that was in Gwynette County where I grew up.
>> Mhm.
>> So, I spent like a year and then another half of a semester there and I got my enough credits to transfer.
>> Mhm.
>> Because I was like, "Okay, I've got to get out of here like I know my life is bigger than this. And also at the time I wasn't thinking, oh, I want to be a superstar. I was just thinking I wanted a real college experience. I wanted to go to a 4-year college. I didn't have the grades to do it in high school and go straight there. I want to find a way to do it in college. So, I think when I went to Georgia Southern as the school following that, I just wanted to find the college ecosystem of like what's the vibe here? Oh, let's party, let's do this. And I didn't find that as soon as I got there. It's almost like I didn't get the immediate
>> this is college like I thought I would get after I got there. And I went into like a deep depression because
>> I had two guys that I knew went to the school from like
>> like you know somebody from your county of course and I was like oh okay I'll link up with him. He'll be a great friend to be along with on this ride of whatever this new school is. And I would try to link up with them. And for some reason, it always was a hassle for me to link up with them. They always would be like, "Oh, uh, we always got to pick you up. You don't have a car." And I'm like, "No, I I'll get a Uber to y'all." Well, if you don't have any money to get into the game, there's no point in coming because we can't pay for you. Or I want to come to the party with y'all. Oh, well, you have the same shoes that you hoop in. Why would we bring you like you? They will always have jokes about maybe I I felt like I wasn't deserving enough to be around them so to say and I felt like almost very for the first time in my life very depressed and that kind of bothered me because I started to just not even go to classes anymore at this new school. I was just staying in my dorm room. So I went to not even going to class anymore. I stopped going to classes for like the whole second semester of being at that school. No classes. sat in my room and would just sit and think. I'm calling my friends back at home. They're not doing nothing. So, I kind of didn't want to go home cuz I'm like, damn, they're not doing I'm not going to go back. But also like, what am I doing here? I'm not doing anything here either. What is my purpose in life? So, sitting in there and being depressed and sad and looking at myself in the mirror, I started to figure out, I'm like, damn, what do I really want to do in life? Does any of this really make sense? It's like I'm here for sports journalism, but do I want I know I want to be on TV. Like I took sports journalism to be maybe a ESPN sports cast just to get my face on TV. I didn't know. I was like, maybe I want to do that. It sounds cool. But as I continued to do more, I guess soularching, so to say, just sitting in the room and thinking about what I want to do these I would sit and watch Steve Harvey interviews on like what is it uh you want to do in your life? jump jump off a mountaintop and take a risk and like I would watch all these videos of everything of people I looked up to Kevin Hart and and I started to figure out I was okay what's my purpose these are the people I look up to but what exactly do I want to do and as I continue to do more search and I started to figure out okay wow I think all the people I look up to are all like comedic legends I'm watching Will Ferrell stuff Chris Farley these are guys that I find as my heroes. I think since I've always been the funny guy in every classroom, everything I've done, sports, I get kicked off the football team for being funny, all this stuff is because I am a comedian. I I and and it was almost like I'm an I felt like an idiot cuz I'm like, damn, I'm sitting over here in college. That is my purpose. This is it. I'm I I feel more connected to them than I've ever felt to anything I've ever felt in my life.
>> Why? The things they would say in a Kevin Hart interview, the things he would say in a Steve Harvey interview, the things Will Ferrell would say or Chris Farley would say or Jim Carrey, I felt more attached to it because they also felt a need and a purpose to become like a hero of comedy. I don't I don't know. It it sounds dumb because when you tell your parents, "Oh, I want to be a comedian." They're like, "Oh, you're like basically a clown, I guess, and you'll go start doing standup rooms and maybe you make it, maybe you don't." It sounds kind of silly telling people or your hometown friends, "Oh, I'm going to be a comedian." But as I continued to do more and more research on everything I wanted to do, I started to figure out, okay, this is my purpose. And it always has been. And I see these videos of me as a kid. I I'm remembering memories of all this stuff early on. This is it. And that and that's when I just had like a I don't know what they would call like epiphany, you know. Um but yeah, that was that was a big uh change for me in my career. Well, not even my career at the beginning processes.
>> When you say I was depressed, that word can mean lots of things to lots of people
>> for sure.
>> What what does it mean in your definition in that moment of your life? If I was a fly on the wall or you know just in the room but also if I was inside your head at that time what would I hear and what would I see if I was a fly on the wall? I think you would just see me in there confused man. I would sit in my room for hours. I would sit there and play 2K. I would sit there and play music for hours and not I I wasn't really doing anything. I had no friends at that school. I would walk to like the corner store. My mom will send me like $20. I'll buy as much as I could get to be able to stay in the room and not go out and socialize with all these people at this huge school. I would get as much food as I could get at the time to go back and just be in the room. And that's when I knew I was like, "Yo, I'm really like in a state I've never been in in my life." Imagine I'm used to being at a high school where I was known as the class clown. Anybody in my family knows me to be the the guy that brings the warmth to the room and to make everybody laugh. And he's he's always bringing good energy to now I'm sitting here almost hiding away from society and very very dark on myself. I was I'm I'm very like hard on myself about everything that I want to do. And and I was it took it took a while for me to understand what it was. I think me going on YouTube and trying to research successful people, I started to line up the people that I I found inspiring and every single one of them were all comedians. I I I felt more attached to every single one of them than I've ever felt attached to anybody else in my life.
>> It's funny cuz through your childhood you were you were a comedian, you know, clearly from all the videos that I've seen. And uh people think of comedians as giving like you you make us laugh.
>> But obviously that you get something from that too.
>> For sure.
>> And then suddenly you're in this room and you're no longer getting that thing.
>> Yeah.
>> Whatever it is.
>> For sure.
>> What is that thing?
>> I knew that was a thing early on when I was a kid. I would have these conversations with myself of at home after elementary of did I make the class laugh today? And why was why does that feel so good to me to brag about? Or I would ask other students, who's the funniest to you in this class? Or who's the funniest in our grade? And I would really ask. I was like, why why do you feel like he's funny? Like why is why is Mikey funnier than me? Tell me tell me why. And it was almost like a competition in my head that nobody knew about, but it it was in me. You know what I'm saying? Like I I felt like it was it meant something if they told me, "Oh, you're of course you're the funniest guy in in our grade. Duh."
>> And how would that make you feel?
>> That made me feel successful. It felt like I won the Mark Twain Award of the school.
>> Like that is like the Oscar for me at a young age if somebody told me, "Oh my god, you're the funniest at the school."
>> I think it's it's interesting often that your your nature was clearly you're a comedian, but
>> that's not a career that kids are taught about. They're taugh about like you said like your dad said like go get your ass blown off and all these other things but they
>> find a trade.
>> Find a trade. Yeah. But until you have you're given a word for it sometimes.
>> It doesn't you don't you don't have that epiphany.
>> I thought that about like being an entrepreneur. I didn't know it was a thing until I was 19 and I was already doing it and then I heard the word and someone gave it meaning. I was like oh that's a thing you can do as a job.
>> Yeah.
>> And then suddenly you know mind expansion.
>> Yeah. You know what it was? I I knew I always knew that comedy was a thing. I didn't know that I wanted to do it as bad as I was doing it. I was always watching it. I always watched My mom would show us in Living Color movies like What About Bob? early on. My dad would always have the Chappelle show on and I would try to sneak and watch that because I was very like much rated R. In the kids' mind, they would they'd be like, "Oh, you can't watch this stuff. Get upstairs." And I would still try to sneak behind the stairs and look like, "Oh my god, that's so funny." And I would try to say these jokes back at school that I hear Dave Chappelle saying or blank man like he was like he was like a guy in a wheelchair from Living Color that ended up becoming a movie and they made this whole thing called Blake. But the fact of the matter is that I it was always in front of me and I always was a big fan of comedy. I just didn't know that my mom sort of to say was influencing and she and and I say my mom because she would always put this stuff in front of us because she wanted she wanted the best for us but she always she she was the like almost like the seessaw to level everything out if something bad happens with my dad. My mom was always there to level it out. She was the one that would come in and tell him like, "David, that's too much." And sometimes he would bark at her and be like, "Get the out of here." Like, "These boys are going to end up being men. They need to learn this now." But she always had like quotes or or or good things she would always say like, "Just just continue to believe in yourself. Continue to know this." So, she was my mom was always a big believer in anything becoming big, you know. Yeah. So, I got to I got to give her a lot for that. You'd think the former president of Nespresso would be a pretty hard person to convert to a new coffee company. But just one sip of Cometier coffee made him invest. But let me tell you the reason why I became an investor. So I had a big box of this arrive on my desk in the London office. And then I'd say within about an hour and a half, the Slack channel that we have starts blowing up with people asking, "What the hell is that thing that's been left in the kitchen?" It is unbelievable. So instead of trying to make it yourself at home and balance the flavors, they flash freeze it at the perfect moment. So all you have to do is pop it out of here into a cup, pour hot water on it, and it tastes like nothing you've tasted before. You can also make delicious iced coffee drinks as well. Just pour it in. No machine, no brewing with plastic and all that nasty stuff. And you can get $30 off your first order at cometier.com/stephven. That's comedy.com/steeden. I went to lunch with a very very successful founder. He told me about this vision where in the future your mattress will be able to check your entire body. He is the founder of a brand called Eightle and it's a brand that has quite frankly changed my life. Me and my fianceé Melanie, we have very different sleeping habits. She likes the bed to be a little bit colder. I like it to be a little bit hotter and so that often causes a little bit of an argument until we discovered eight. The eightle pod 6 is this mattress cover that sits on top of your mattress and it regulates your entire bed while you sleep. So my fianceé Mel can have it as cold as she wants on her side and it knows that I have a different preference on my side. If Mel's getting up earlier, her side can wake her up by sort of slowly vibrating and heating up so that she wakes up while I stay asleep. And pod 6 now delivers temperature relief 20% faster than the previous pod with a 50% smaller hub. And I spoke to Matteo, the founder, and he has given me a code to give to you now that he sponsors this podcast, which will allow you to get up to $200 off the new Pod 6. Use my code Steven at8.com/stephven. You'll get 30 days to try it, and if you don't like it, you can return it, but I'm confident that you will. So, you went off to university. You discover these great comedians. You discovered, you said Steve Harvey, who's I think he's 69 years old now. is an American comedian and TV host, stand-up comic as well.
>> One of the kings of comedy.
>> One of your idols in comedy.
>> Yeah, for sure. Hell yeah.
>> What was it that he said in particular that you recall that really sort of pushed you forward in that moment?
>> I remember he had a video that talked about just taking a risk and just jumping. And he spoke on just take the leap of faith and just jump. Stop overthinking everything. Nothing happens without taking this risk.
>> Mhm. And I knew he he he continued to say something in these videos of if you believe there's something more to your life, there is. If you have that vision that keeps popping up in your head, that means it that very much so is in your life. And I just kept hearing him say that. And I played the video back. Played the video back again. Played the video back. I'm like, damn, what the hell? That means there is something. Cuz I I kept feeling that feeling. I kept having I'm like, there's more to my life than what it is right now. And I knew it in the back of my head. I was like, I know it. I know it. I know it. There's more to this than than what I feel. It's in the back of my And I And I continue. And that's what resonated with me from the video that I watched on him. That was it was like life changing.
>> I speak to Steve.
>> Oh, man. What are you about to show me, man?
>> He wanted to send you a little uh a little video message as well.
>> Hey, what's happening, Truceki? Hey, look, man. and uh I heard they was doing something for you. So, I wanted to jump on here, man, and just give you some uh some big ups, man. Let you know, man. I've been watching you for a while from a distance, man. We've only spoken once, but
>> look, man, I think you're special. You got a gift, man. You're really, really special. And with that specialness, man, come responsibility. And so, just be careful, man. Remember everything your mom and your grandmama told you, cuz you going to need all of that cuz you killing the game. But once you start killing the game, it's like chess, man. We're out here playing chess.
>> The object is to kill the king. Sad, but true.
>> Keep your faith, brother. Stay funny, man. If you need me, call Unk. I got you.
>> This is crazy. That That is nuts, bro. That is amazing, man. And that and that really is a full circle moment even hearing him say that. And wow, man. somebody somebody that definitely I looked up to him amongst you know the other kings of comedy as well is like wow man that's that is that's deep that's deep
>> what happens from there you go from being in that room you're watching these Steve Harvey videos presumably you got to call your mom and you got to tell your mom that you're dropping out
>> yeah she uh she wasn't happy about that she I remember she cried and she she hung up on me and she was like this this is just so dumb. Like what are you talking about?
>> What did you say?
>> I couldn't get any words out. She hung up. But I remember seeing her crying on the FaceTime after I just wanted to tell her what my vision was on cuz you know you you say I'm dropping out. But then of course I have a rebuttal. I have a great idea.
>> Yeah.
>> And she hung up immediately. So then I called my friend. He came and grabbed me from the school in the middle of the night. I was like 4 hours away from Atlanta, Georgia. I'm deep down in southern Georgia. Um, and we drove all the way back. And when I got there, of course, she let me in the house. And I think it was just a confusing time because I'm also not making any money. So, she's like, "Now what? Like, now what are you going to do?" And I had this big plan and I told her what I was going to do. I'm like, "I'm going to be a comedian. I'm going to be on TV. I promise you in a year I'm going to make sure I'm on TV. And if I'm not, I told her this wild story of I'm going to kill myself. I said, if I don't become a comedian and I don't become a famous comedian on TV, I'mma kill myself. And she's like, don't say stuff like that. That is that is so dumb. I want you to go hard for whatever you're doing, but that is just why do you feel like it has to be comedy? And I was like, this is something that And I continue to break down everything. I'm like, this is what I've always wanted to be. And I had it's almost like you have this great idea, but nobody sees the vision. And so then I went to my grandparents. I told them the same vision that I had. They lived down the street from her. And they were like, "This is so what? Like what are you talking about? Go back to school, get your education, and then you do all that other stuff." Because they had the old school mindset of they probably seen people that didn't go to school. And they seen people that did go to school. People that did go to school get a job. People that didn't go to school became maybe crackheads in their era. I don't know like or became failures in life. So they didn't they never really saw the good side of what is and I was like the the 0.1 of people maybe even less than 0.1% of people that are able to accomplish that after dropping out is like very unlikely. So immediately when I told my grandparents they were like oh no no no. They said don't we know what's going to happen. You going to drop out. You're going to be calling us asking for money. Don't be calling our house and pulling up and you going to be doing drugs. And I'm like, "Gosh, listen. I'm not gonna be doing that." They're like, "No, no, no, no." You know, your grandparents, black grandparents, they don't give a They like, "Don't be coming over here and bothering us. We know what's about to happen." Like, you going to be a crackhead. And I'm like, "Listen, guys. I have a plan." And essentially, I didn't do it immediately. I started trying to work at um Red Lobster and then I worked at like a Longhorns and I worked at Outback Steakhouse and McDonald's. I I started to work jobs because it was like a quick money thing and then I fell victim to being living in Atlanta where I was doing illegal stuff and now I'm seeing myself go into this whirlwind of damn I came home to do this
>> drug dealing.
>> No, no, you said I said no is in Atlanta there's like a it's like a scamming circle of of where a lot of people fall victim to. like you can do quick easy scams with banks or doing card scams, just stuff like that. And I never was a bad guy. I just
>> I I felt like
>> that was an easier way to do it while I'm trying to pursue this stuff. But I felt like the karma of this stuff was weighing on me. It's like, "Oh, I'm going to do I'm going to try to pursue comedy while doing this." And it never worked out. I didn't even pursue it. I just was
>> flirting with it.
>> I was going back and forth. Yeah. I was just continued to flirt back and forth with the idea of it. And then it was the moment that we got arm robbed where I had a a outer body feeling of wow I came home to be in this predicament where I have a gun to my head now and now it's like how did I even get here? So let me rewind back. That was the last moment I said, "Okay, if I'm going to do anything, I'm going to become a comedian or die trying." That's it. I have no other outlet. Now I know once I saw the barrel of that gun being pointed at me and my friend at the time it was a bad scamming situation gone left. That was the moment I noticed, okay, if I survive this, I am going to turn my life around and I'm not going to go to a job. I'm not going to go back to my mom's house and try to say, "Oh, I'm doing this, that." I'm going to lock and actually do it. And from there on, I went home. I wrote all these goals down on the sheet of paper. And my mom, she was kind of in the mix of what happened a little bit, too. she had heard cuz she saw me walking around the house being stressed out. I told her what's going on. And I wrote down all these goals because she would always say, "You can't do anything without writing things down." Ever since I was a kid, she was like, "You should write that down. If you want to remember something, write it down. Write it down."
>> Do you remember what goals were?
>> The first one I ever wrote was don't have a plan B, your plan A will work. No plan B, your plan A will work. The second one I wrote was about
>> Was there about hosting a tour on there?
>> Yeah. Yeah, hosting a tour was definitely on there.
>> Hosting an awards evening.
>> Yeah, that both of those was on there. I I wrote down that I wrote down being a comedian. I wrote down amongst a lot of other things. How do you How do you know that? What is it? What is it on that? How do you know that? That was that was on there. I haven't sent y'all a production that
>> we got this scamming thing we did where we can scam starring a major movie.
>> Mhm. For sure. All that is down there, man.
>> And you were 23 at the time roughly.
>> Yes, 23.
>> So, what's happened then? So, you left college at what what age?
>> I left college around 21 22.
>> Okay.
>> In between 212, I left college.
>> So, it's a year or two at home with your mom?
>> Year and a half. I'll probably say a full year has been at home before all that transpired. I tried the jobs and tried the legal stuff that didn't work. And now I'm here and I start to actually do the things that I wrote down.
>> What does that mean specifically?
>> Like I think the first thing that happened after I wrote these goals down, the first thing that happened, everything was taken away. It felt like everything dropped out before it got good. Everything. I wrote down these goals. I wrote the date on there. Boom. I'm doing it. I was like, "All right, now I'm locked in. This is it. I'm I'm all in. I have no other option. There's no other plan B, nothing. Immediately my car gets repossessed. I'm like, yo, what the Now I can't travel and do nothing. So, it's funny because it's like as soon as you want to pursue all these things, everything has to come out. And and you're it's confusing because most people never get a chance to see the real side of success because they quit at that moment. That breaking point of everything falling out of your life. They're like, "Oh my god, I done prayed for all this stuff. I done wrote everything down. I got this this board of this mood board. I got everything." And then I'd lose this and oh, see it don't work. But I knew I'm like, I'm going to keep going. I'm not going to stop here. I actually made that like a content piece. I recorded my car getting repossessed and people were like, "Yo, what the hell are you posting this for?" I was like, "Well, there it is. There she goes." But really, I was sad as I was like, "Damn, I got nothing." But I I feared nothing because I'm like, I have I have nothing left. I'm sitting here in a room, no mattress. I'm laying on the floor. I'm using my little sister's blanket that she had as a blanket on the ground. Like, I don't have any dressers in here. Like you know when you you go to college your mom gives away all your Like she she sells it or she puts it in some warehouse. So I didn't have none of my stuff. I just was laying on the floor and I was like I had my car but now that's gone. So what else could I lose? Like I I'm my back's against the wall. I'm going to continue to keep pursuing making videos. Boom boom boom boom boom. And that's what I did. I continued to boom boom boom boom boom. I wasn't going to stop. And I was using my mom's house as essentially a a movie set. I started to flip the couch upside down. I wanted to do a surveillance camera at the top left side of the room to make it look like I'm on First 48. I'm interviewing myself on a First 48 episode. Boom. That's one of the skits. I have another skit where I'm using this jacket that my mom had in the closet and I'm putting that on. I'm acting like a news reporter, Fox 5 in the backyard and I I'm putting the phone cropped up on the trash can outside in the backyard and my mom used to come home. She'd be like, "What the are you doing?" and she she used to see the house in shambles, but I got to give it to her cuz she she stuck through it with me. I would always give her these updates like I have 10k followers now. I have 15k followers. She's like, "Okay, so what does that mean? Did you make any money?" I'm like, "No, but I have people watching." And I was like, "Oh, I got 100K followers. Did you make any money yet?" No, but people are watching. And I continuously just kept giving these updates as eventually I started to make money through promotion. and I would promote people's music and their their videos and throw it on my story and I would do a full day of promotion. It would make me a couple hundred dollars maybe and that would be enough to maybe go out that night or it just wasn't like it wasn't anything real fulfilling or I would help my mom with groceries like I I would try to do things to you know make money but it wasn't really making any real money at the time and then I continued to keep building. So yeah, no, I think those those early moments really shaped a lot for me.
>> I mean, I've got a a video here as well that I found. Um, you can explain what this one is to me,
>> man. Yeah, man. I know what the going on, man.
>> Counting me up. I ain't never been at the gas.
>> That was That was fresh off of scamming right there.
>> Fresh off of scammer.
>> Shot me out. Shot me out when I got shot me out. GOT ALL HIS ICE ON. Sound me up. Yeah. Ain't know I'm going up like this. Now
>> that was actually my first video I ever posted on socials.
>> Ever.
>> Ever. First video ever. That's when Instagram first started the whole 15sec video post thing. You know, Vine was doing it for like 6 seconds and I didn't never was on that. And I came around and it was like 15 seconds on Instagram you could post a video. my friend Chanty and now he's like my lead comedic writer and he was like, "Bro, just go like just post it." And I was like, "This is kind of silly. I'm just acting like I had like those are like $1 bills, bro. I was acting like I I ones." And I'm just And he was like, "Just post it." I I think that got like maybe 80 comments, 60 or 70 comments, something like that. It was like hometown people.
>> And they were just like, "Oh my god, this is so funny. We see what you're doing. that's that's dope. Hopefully you do more. Like people were just supporting it. I was like, "All right, well, I'm more creative than this." And I started to continuously become more and more creative because I was like, "All right, I did that, but that's like silly stuff. I know what I'm capable of." But yeah, that that was the very first video I ever threw up.
>> This one I found really interesting. I'm just going to play it fast.
>> Mill perform.
>> Yes, bro. I'm telling you. No.
>> Yo, Mick Mill's my wife. But I said, "Yo, let me be on your level one day." He shot hit you.
>> I promise you. I like I told him. I said, "Yo, let me be on your level one day."
>> You're saying in that video that you're going to be on Meek Mill's level someday
>> and that you dapped him up and told him that.
>> Mhm. I lied about that. I did not dap him up and tell him that. I saw him at a party and I was so influential. I I shouted it over somebody like, "Yo, Meek, I'm a big fan, man. I'mma be on your level someday." I didn't shake his hand. I was just I was just chatting. But in our in our county, we have almost like what you would call like a hood legend. Lou Williams. He went to the same high school I went to. He made it to the NBA, played amongst a bunch of teams. Sixman. You probably know him. Drake did a song about Lou Will, you know, balling out of Sonet like Lou Will. So he was almost like the hero to us. He would throw these parties which were like essentially like you know have all these celebrities come to Gwynette County and at the time Gwet County is not on the map. It's not like a known thing like we're just like a suburb outside of Atlanta and he would have these celebrities come to these parties and we would be able to go because we're locals and Gwynette. So you would see all these celebrities and I was like wow I would look at Lou Will's house. He's currently in the NBA and I'm like wow this is insane. And Meek Mill came one night and I I said I told him that but I just shouted it and he had a bunch of security with him. He didn't even let us over there. But yeah, I was you could tell I was man I was it's a kid manifesting in
>> Yeah. manifestation and like there was no stutter in my speech right there. I I definitely felt that way about everything I was doing and I probably have said a lot of things around that time that probably weren't recorded where I was very like trying to pursue greatness. I've always been a big fan of pursuing greatness my entire life. I never want to just be good. I always wanted to be great. Um so yeah, that that just shows right there. Now I'm surprised one of my friends, he still had that clip. He sent it to me
>> and I posted it. Yeah. The thing I find interesting generally is in that situation, look at that context. You're in your mother's house. You're using the the uh front room and a blanket as both your bed and also your sort like creative studio. Objectively in that situation, the odds are stacked against you. But but in your head, you're thinking, I'm either going to be great or in your words, I'm going to kill myself.
>> Yeah, it was a little far. A little far. When you said that, what did you actually mean?
>> What did you mean?
>> I felt like I
>> You meant it. But I was I was You know what it was? I was so I was I was chasing being great. And I and that might have been far-fetched in me to say something as wild as that, but that's honestly how I felt like I was going to make it happen or I was going to see perceive myself as a failure. I didn't see anything different. I saw nothing else but a green light down this tunnel. I saw nothing. I I I I knew in the back of my mind what I was capable of. I already knew. I felt like my entire life I knew but I just didn't put the pieces together. But when I told my mom that I knew I said okay I have committed to something that I know there is no possible in or out. I'm going to do this or die trying truthfully, you know, like I feel like I I'm either going to do this or I'm not and I'm going to make it happen. So I knew I wasn't going to kill myself essentially. I knew
>> Mhm.
>> I'm not going to kill myself.
>> Because you believe.
>> Because I believe I'm going to do it. But if I don't,
>> M
>> I'm out of here.
>> Sounds crazy, but it's true. Sounds crazy, but it's true, man. That That's how much belief I had in myself. And that's how I felt like with my back against the wall. Like I really did want to do it that bad. And still like I do feel the same about achieving greatness. I don't tend to like things that are just good.
>> And people are like, "Oh my god, I became rich. I'm I'm good, man. I'm going on vacation." I don't do any vacationing. I I I I I I find it soothing to be in a chaos situation of work and juggling a a multiple projects at once. Like that is what I want to do. This is what I got into it for. So that that's my full goal. Yeah.
>> And when you look back on that season of life where your you first move home with your mom as as a 31-year-old now, what has it taught you about what it takes to be successful broadly? Again, remove luck from the equation. Let's remove some people getting fortunate with lottery tickets, whatever else. But generally, what has it taught you about what it takes to be successful in the pursuit of a goal like that where to be honest, not many people ever make any money? the odds of you being successful as a comedian defined let's define as as making being able to provide for yourself in a family
>> slim to none
>> it's it's crazy odds
>> but the thing is most people don't really want to be great most people just say it because it sounds good like I I I would be around a lot of guys that be like yo let's do it let's wake up in the morning let's just fall out everybody eventually just goes away everybody that said they were going to do it they do it one day they're not showing up the third or the second day nobody nobody shows up continuously for the work. And once I noticed there's a small amount of people that are showing up for the actual work of anything, it it just showed me that, okay, I'm in a lane of this of my own. I'm pursuing something that most people say, but they're not really trying to pursue. Everybody wants to be number one. You want to be the top of the list. Everybody wants to be top of the list, but nobody really wants to do the work. Nobody's obsessed with it continuously, every day and night, having dreams about it. Nobody's sitting and editing with their editors 18 hours plus of like just sitting looking at clips. Nobody's going and doing tours while trying to continuously film a TV show. Could have been love in the middle of that tour. Nobody's trying to also shoot a movie like right now we're shooting with Universal the catch with Emma Stone and Chris Bond while also still trying to fulfill my social media presence. I'm trying to juggle all these things in one because I want to be great. I don't want to just do it and be like, "Okay, I'm going to take some time off and just No, I really want to be number one. I I I don't I'm not really falling victim to being okay with being cool with number two or three." And I joke about it all the time because one of my favorite movies is Tallaladega Nights. And Ricky Bobby said, "If you ain't first,
>> you're last." And I and we me and my family joke about it all the time. We laugh about it, but I kind of took that vision seriously cuz that's really how I live my life and that's really how I feel because what else could be other than wanting to be number one.
>> What happens when you become number one?
>> You still got to keep pushing the mountain cuz somebody's chasing. There's somebody coming. Somebody's on the way. So, I feel like the journey never ends because you're always continuously chasing.
>> Mhm. you know, if it's not the people before you, it's trying to continue to set the bar high for the people behind you.
>> Yeah.
>> So,
>> and what does being great mean in your definition of the word? Like, if I say, cuz you know, you said that you stated that the goal is to be great.
>> How would you know you've become great?
>> I think being great has a lot of different meanings. It it doesn't it doesn't have a money value or a certain touring value or or I think just being great in all ways just comes down to just how far you're willing to set the bar. There's always people before you that have done great things. You got Eddie Murphy that has set the bar way up here. Then you got Kevin Hart that's damn near where Eddie's at. And he looks very healthy. He looks like he might take it further than Eddie. Who knows? I don't know. But there's always somebody gaining on that right behind the great before you. The same with Kobe, Jordan, LeBron.
>> Mhm.
>> Somebody's going to continuously keep setting the bar high. So, it's like we're all trying to just leave a legacy, sort of say. Like, I think that's what we're all trying to do. And
>> you want to be in that conversation.
>> You want to be in that conversation when it's all said and done. I would love to be in that conversation. It's not saying I want to be surpassed and we all want to surpass great things. We all do.
>> But just to be in that conversation and to be remembered and to leave a legacy, that's what matters. One of the things that I've observed with people that go in the pursuit of greatness and achieve it is just they have they have like a different level of like patience and they have a longer time horizon. Because with Eddie, with Kevin, it takes a lot of like lonely, lonely years, decades sometimes. I was sat here with the greatest illusionist in the world and he told me that he spent 10 years doing card tricks on restaurant tables and you go, "What a crazy thing to do." Like whatever or like this other I mean even Jimmy Car said to me like he dropped out of his his great job. I believe it was in marketing and spent five six years getting paid absolutely nothing just cracking jokes in pubs and stuff. And you go like what a what sane person
>> Yeah. would would think would take that trade.
>> Yeah.
>> When I zoom back into where you were in your mother's house, how long was it? How how from that I guess from university from college to the moment where you go actually chit this is this might be able to pay my way that I so I can move out. How long was that period of time?
>> Years, man. Honestly, years. We're talking like years of seeing nothing. And I think people don't see that. People see with social media, there's a bunch of quick reaction to things and people like, "Oh my god, this person, oh, they went viral for that. Oh my god, now what can I do with this?" People always worried about, "Oh, I'mma take this thing. I I did this video or I did." And and now I'm trying I'm going to go get a team. I'm going to go. It's like, what are you doing? You don't need a team. Keep grind. Do it again. Do it again, man. And and and when you're trying to be great, you never get a chance to celebrate the things that you have done. you almost don't feel in the moment because you're looking for the what's the next thing and I kind of give credit of that cuz I do the same thing. I do it all the time. We did the BET Awards and the next day I was already flying to go shoot my TV show Collect and Praise with Mike Eps that we just shot.
>> I had somebody in the congregation ask why I'm wearing Christian Dior and Christian Lupatons.
>> CUZ I'M A CHRISTIAN AND I WALK IN THE BLOOD OF JESUS. GIVE HIM SOME PRAISE. IMMEDIATELY the next day, we almost I didn't even get a chance to take it in. I'm like, "Oh my god, I just did a BTS. Something I always want to do in my life." Boom. I'm on a plane. I'm at the next thing. Immediately after I do Collect and Praise, we shot that for two weeks back to back. Boom. On a plane. The next day after the final day of that, we're all clapping everything on a plane. Next day, we're shooting the catch with Emma Stone and Chris Pine.
>> Mhm.
>> The next day. So, it's like you never really get a chance to take a lot of these things in because you're continuously progressing, progressing, progressing. And my mom would always I feel like she influenced me to be like that because I would come home from school all the time and be like, "Oh, I got to a B on this test." She's like, "Oh, you could have done better." Or I like, "Oh, I I did this at school. They told me I was Oh, come on. You could you could have done better on that."
>> Mhm. Not like it's not enough, but it's like you always can do better. There's even if you got an A on this, why did you get an A+?
>> Do you want to be a a dad yourself?
>> Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Of course.
>> Where's that going to fit in this crazy life?
>> We have no idea. That's We got to find a wife first, bro. I'm trying to find love first, bro. I have no idea. No, but I I I think both my parents, they they they both did that same of like I would bring my dad math equations and him being a pilot, he would break it down in crazy ways of like what the like I would say, oh this is division. Could you help me with this? And he'll take 40 minutes be like oh you you answered it but you could have done the long division this way. Okay, let me tell you mx time bx^2 and you could get this answer reversed. Let's reverse this answer. If you get this, you get it multiple different ways. So I be like, "Yo, what the hell, bro? I just brought you a simple division equation. Why did you make it long division and then go into MX * bx squ?" But these are my parents though. They're always looking for the greater thing. Always, no matter what it was, even if it was academics, you could have done better or you could have gotten it a different way or there's other routes to get to it. It was almost never a a correct answer in my household because there's different ways you could find an answer to anything. So imagine what that does to my mind of damn,
>> I've got to find a way and not just in one way. I got to find it in multiple different ways.
>> So when I do my type of comedy, I never sit on doing one thing. If I do one thing, that's amazing.
>> I'll come back and hit another situation or I'll hit another situation. I'm going be funny in this way, too. I'm not just going to be funny in this way. I can also be funny at a live show. I can also be funny in a sketch version. I can also be funny in a movie. I can also be funny on a TV show. I can also be funny in a commercial.
>> You see a T-Mobile commercial, you see Drewuski's face on it with Zoe Zaldana and Jeff Bridges. Why the is Duski on here with Zo and Jeff? I don't know. But it works. It's a comedic relief of this commercial. But I feel like my life has gone in that direction because of these upbringings, of these teachings that both my parents had set for us. Listen, I've been catfished by furniture my whole life where something has looked fantastic in the picture, whether it's a sofa or whatever it might be and I order it and I get so excited and then it comes and it's something entirely different. The quality was significantly different to what it said or looked like online or the the texture was different or or it it didn't hold up in the same way. And so one of the things that I love about our sponsor Wayfair, who have helped us fit out our green room, which is in the room behind me, is they have this system called Wayfair Verified. Wayfair Verified takes away all of that second guessing. Products are hand vetted by Wayfair specialists for quality so you can feel more confident when you found the thing that you love. So if you're looking for furniture for your house, whatever it might be, any room of your house, go to wayfair.com to start your home refresh today. And make sure you use Wayfair Verified. It is amazing. There should be a button just down below here. And if it says subscribed, you're already subscribed. If it says subscriber, that means you're not yet. And if you're not subscribed, please could you do us a favor and hit that button? It helps the show more than you know. And according to the algorithm, you're someone that watches our show, but you haven't yet hit that button. Thank you so much. Was there a first check or first opportunity that you really like wanted to tell your mom about because this was kind of proof that you were right? Uh, or was there a moment at all?
>> I think you're saying like a big check moment.
>> You know, like one of those moments an opportunity comes in and you can't wait to tell your mom because suddenly you were right when she should.
>> Well, well, well, I had one moment. I went I went like quote unquote at the time. It might have been 2022, like kind of after CO died down. I was gaining a little bit more traction everywhere. And I had told her that a a celebrity had posted me and I was so excited. I was like, "Oh my god, a celebrity posted me." And she was like, "Oh my god." She's like, "So, so she's like, "So what happens now? Did they did they tag you in it? Did people follow you?" I was like, "No, they didn't tag me. It's just they just posted the video." She's like, "Did like is there opportunity? Like are you going to shoot like a video? Are you doing anything with them?" I was like, "No, no, no. They just they just reposted my video." And she's like, "Now what?" And I'm like, "Well, I'm back to square one." And it's like, yeah, my parents were big on breaking things down. So, you feel never really fulfilled. You don't feel fulfilled with anything because you are always trying to figure out, okay, this opportunity is great, but what's next?
>> Do you feel fulfilled with your work now?
>> No, not yet. Too young. It's it's too much more to go, man. Way too much. Look what Jim Carrey did. Look at Eddie Murphy, man. Look what uh Chris Farley has achieved. Adam Sandler, man. These guys are
>> Are you happy though?
>> I'm very happy. I'm very happy. But fulfilled? No. I have so much more.
>> Is it not possible to be fulfilled and also to be in pursuit?
>> Is there a way you're saying to be both?
>> Yeah. Like to be fulfilled with
>> No, your hunger has to always continue to live. Any anybody that's pursuing
>> me like nice try, man.
>> Nice try.
>> But anybody that is pursuing greatest will never tell you that the hunger has stopped. It has to continuously keep going. There's there's no way. No way, man.
>> So, closing off in this period of your life where you're still at your mom's house.
>> When did that change? What was the moment where you were like, I can leave now?
>> Well, I had all my clothes stacked in the living room because I people started to send me so many merch clothes, you know, when you become, you know, at the time like everybody's an influencer. They they would send influencers all type of loads of clothes. They want you to wear it in your next video or whatever you're doing. So, I had all these clothes stacked up in her like dining room area. I wouldn't even say living room. It was like the dining room in the front of the house. And I started to kind of make some money to where I was like, "All right, maybe I need to find like an apartment now that now I have some type of money, I can actually get out of here." But I think me crowding up that dining room, I started to notice, okay, now I can kind of live on my own. But it wasn't until I started to actually the thing that changed my life at the time was Drake calling for the Laugh Now Cry Later music video. Everything shifted after that because brands started to take me seriously. It wasn't no more send in free merch and oh you get this or we'll bring you out to this event and we just want your appearance and you can get in free. Now it's transactional with everything. Once I was seen on a higher level with you know Drake is I think at the time Lil Durk we had Marshawn Lynch Kevin Durant Odell Beckham Jr. all in this video alongside with me and me being the comedic relief in this video which was called Laugh Now Cry Later. This meant a lot more than just
>> another music video. Where where were you when you found that out that he had called?
>> No, he just he just was a was a big fan of a lot of the stuff I was posting during that early time, but it wasn't until then no real money was coming in. No money at all. But that that shifted everything because brands started to see me in a broader light. Um, and they started to see me as an actual star, so to say, instead of just another amongst all these other guys who are doing comedic things, you know.
>> But were you speaking to him directly on DMs or something?
>> Yeah, it was just all through DM at the time. Um, up until I met him. But yeah, all that was like it was very just short back and forth laughing at this video, laugh at that video, find this funny, find that funny. And then we had like a long conversation once he told me that I would be starring in that music video. And that was just about like leading this generation of comedy and just what I am to, you know, the world at the time. And and then I'm I'm hearing his words. I'm like, "Yo, maybe this dude's just gassing me up. I don't This is This is wild to hear from somebody who is in my eyes a full-blown superstar, mega star." But yeah, could that that's one of those things is just like could never repay him, man. Like that was to take a chance on me at the time just doing silly stuff of what I I thought was great. But at the time it was so looking back I've had great stuff, but it's like so minimal to what I do now. It's like
>> I can't believe he took a chance, you know, on me in that circumstance. But it it shifted everything.
>> It shifted everything almost immediately.
>> Almost immediately. Yeah. I think it was it was almost a more of a seriousness that people took me more than just showing up for things.
>> Mhm.
>> You know, the transactional conversation started to go into play.
>> When you look back on your arc and you hear about other people's journeys and arcs, what else have you learned about again what it takes? There's the obsession, there's the dedication, there's the hours. What about like the business part? Like how do you climb ladders? Is it people? Is it knowing a guy?
>> It's all all relationships. Even in the biggest buildings, majority of it is relationships. Of course, your talent weighs a lot, but relationships are very much key. What does that mean for someone that has no idea what goes on in these buildings?
>> Relationship is key because these people want to know that you are a good person to be around. They want to know if if you're going to be starring in my T-Mobile commercial, we want to have dinner with We want to see if what type of person you are. They want to make sure you're not a guy that's going to go out and do nothing wild after we trust you with this. You're going to be all over TV. We trust you with these things. You we sign you to a Nike deal. You're in a T-Mobile deal. You these people. It's all about relationship. Who you know, how you treat people. They they like to sense what type of person you are in a separate environment from who you are as the celebrity.
>> Drewi,
>> you know what I'm saying? Like people tend to want to meet who the real you is before we present you to our world. We want to see who you are as a person. So I feel like a lot of my upbringing was around this broad horizon of different different ethnicities, different genders of everybody. We we had Indian people, Mexican, white, black, African, Jamaican, everything you could ever think would count. So that type of stuff shaped me to be able to go in these rooms with these bigger brands and be able to talk to anybody. I
>> did have to learn to do that. Did you have to mature or learn a skill of like coming from where you come from to be in a a room with these big brands and these people in suits in corporate America?
>> Nah, man. It's it's it's funny because I I always have been a people person. Mhm.
>> Like I anytime I would as a kid go into a grocery store, my mom, I would like if I saw a kid's parent that plays with me on a football team, I saw his parents walking around. I would go up and talk to his dad and like make him laugh and jok, like, "Hey, man, give me a cigarette, man. Let me get a cigarette. You You better go outside, smoke, smoke a poke, man." And just jokingly talk as if I'm not 10 years old. But I think that is a big part of what I've learned about, you know, just the industry in general. It's about more about relationships and, you know, how you treat people and how this interview goes or how this, you know, this dinner is with this guy who may not know nothing about you. He may not know your background, nothing. Are you able to have a one-on-one conversation with him
>> and have him trust you in whatever goes down, whatever you're talking about,
>> are you a good person? And I think it comes down to that regardless of anything you do.
>> Yeah. So, it's interesting because when you're dealing with like corporate America and you're dealing with these big brands and you mentioned T-Mobile and all these other brands, you've got this this this sort of off camera Drew guy who meets them for the dinner, but then you got Drewuski on camera and Drewuski on camera part of your comedy is you really like push the boat out. You say the part out loud that most people wouldn't say. How what what is your decision framework there with like because there's this term you know I worked in advertising for a long time. There's this term brand safety which means like
>> is this person sufficiently sanitized enough that we can you use the word like trust this person with the brand but then on the other end the thing that people love about you is you say the part that other people don't say. You point at it. What's your risk equ when you're thinking about content?
>> What's the like framework you use to decide whether this is okay or if it's not okay? For sure. No, that's a great question. Um, I think the way I look at all of this stuff and and people ask me that all the time in person whenever I see him is that I've never punched down with any jokes that I ever do. Any jokes I ever do always come from a good-hearted place. Even if I'm doing auditions, a skit that I do, anything. You can never show me something that I've done that was like, "Oh, that's punching down or that wasn't inclusive of the other person that might have been in that situation." or oh, he doesn't he doesn't touch on this because of that or he doesn't do that. I always come from a light-hearted place and a good-hearted place of my comedy. I never was the guy to be cuz you do have it. You have those guys out there like a Sasha Baron Cohen that has like the dark humor of things and maybe he might have upset some people that were, you know, and it might come from a bad place. I don't know. I've never met the guy. I don't know. But I come from a good place with majority of all mal humor.
>> I've just mental flash of you doing this.
>> But even then, even even with that, even with that comes from a good place. Didn't touch on anything because at the at the in the same tone, I'm not a political guy. I'm not a guy that's going out here trying to portray this like I know anything about anything. I am just the guy here for laughs, comedian. I don't care for none of that serious stuff. People ask me all these deep questions. I'm like, yo, I don't look at anything like that. Like, I think I'm just being me. I never was trying to get into no deep side of anything with nothing.
>> You are consistent. That's why I went through I was going through all of your all of your skits. Um, and I was think he's consistent with with your values and what you're not aiming at anyone in particular. You're just pointing at
>> the funny OB punching down. That's a that's a big one. People can never show me anything or it's like, "Okay, he's punching down at this. This is a it's coming from a bad place." It's always me genuinely just speaking on what's funny or mannerisms or things that I I see people do where I'm people watching or, you know, just exposing things to the world that we see that we don't notice that we see.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And it has nothing to do with the political side or the race side and all that stuff. It's just stuff that's going on in real life that we see. Sometimes comedians have a have a way of showing the viewer something that they don't notice that they see. It could be in the back of your brain and you can bring it to life and be like, "Wow, I might have saw that 15 years ago, but that's funny because I remember seeing that. You bring these things to life. This is what a great comedic actor does." I think it's probably there's probably something in the fact that if if both sides at some point are angry at you or shouting at you for doing something, at least that means that you're not politically affiliated necessarily
>> because you're not even know what the I don't even I don't even touch on none of that political or
>> but it means that you're just finding things funny everywhere versus just finding them funny over there or just finding them funny over there.
>> I agree. I I think I I just I I've never had the want to do that. And some people like you you have these late night shows that talk about that type of stuff or you know these guys that that's their spill. That's not my spill.
>> Same with I don't have Yeah. They touch on that stuff. And I feel like with you, you never
>> get too ind depth with any of that. You let them talk and you just ask whatever you're going to ask and it just happens how it's going to happen.
>> Yeah. And I'll sit with Michelle Obama or JD Vance or Ivanch Trump or Camala Harris. I've sat with all of them. I'll sit with all of them and I'll ask the questions I'm curious about. And
>> I think it's possible just to be curious, you know. So,
>> I agree.
>> Sounded like Trump did ask Erica Kirk to sue you though.
>> But you must be This is crazy.
>> I don't know if that's true though. I don't know.
>> It looks like it. It looks like it. I read it and I thought that can't be that's there's no way that's true. There's no way that's true. Here we go. In March, you released a video of how conservative white women in America act, and it did hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of millions of views. I think I watched it like
>> insane. 20 times.
>> Insane, man. Insane.
>> And then in April, exactly one week later, Trump made the comment to Erica Kirk that she should sue him. He didn't say who,
>> but I'm just saying that is
>> who knows. I don't know if he was talking about me.
>> Who was he talking about? I don't know about me.
>> To this day, I have no idea. But people sent me that video. I just didn't know if it was pretending towards me. I just
>> It's crazy.
>> Just left it alone. I have no idea. I have no idea. I don't know. I don't know.
>> That's crazy though.
>> But even in a weird way, it it does speak to the impact that you're working.
>> If if he was I don't know if he was though. You
>> You hope he was.
>> You hope he was. I'm not looking to get sued by nobody. I'm not looking forward to that. No. No, man. No. For sure. No.
>> Is it a compliment in a weird way?
>> Uh, not necessarily. I don't I don't think I would looking to get sued by anybody. We have too much that we're pursuing right now to be looking forward to that. No, not at all.
>> That's crazy. Hey, I love how you like That's crazy. No, but that is it's crazy thinking about it. I'm like thinking about you in that room with your sister's blanket
>> and then and then I just had this mental
>> then Trump's like sue him
>> in the White House which is just
>> that's crazy.
>> I don't know man.
>> Kind of inspiring in a weird way.
>> No, but I don't think that was towards me. You're saying
>> I think it was I don't think I think it was
>> Well, we'll never know until until someone asks him.
>> But I mean Yeah. So since then it's been you've had a unbelievable career. You've and you've really managed to do something that very few people who start out making content on the internet
>> are able to do which is traverse multiple industries and mediums. I feel like I've seen you everywhere from commercials. Did you do the Super Bowl?
>> Yeah, we did a Super Bowl commercial.
>> Last year it was Dunkin Donuts Super Bowl commercial. This year
>> it was T-Mobile with the Backtory Boys.
>> This Dunkin Donuts commercial.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I heard this crazy story that they accidentally sent you Jim Car's money.
>> Jim Car's No, they didn't send the money. They sent an email showing how much he would be getting paid for that hour.
>> Oh.
>> Or the two hours that he was there. Insane. And they weren't supposed to. They were actually mad that I even spoke on that. But he didn't even show up. He didn't even I don't I don't think he ever
>> said yes to it. But they accidentally sent it to me assuming that it was I guess Jim Car's management. They sent it to my management and I think they accidentally sent the proposal.
>> Oh, which was supposed to be for him and they might have sent my proposal to him, but his proposal to me. I can only imagine if he saw the amount I was getting. That's probably why he didn't do this Did anybody saw my Jim Carrey saw the proposal? How much I was getting paid for the I don't know. I don't know. But um yeah. No, it was it was an insane amount of money. And I was like, "Wow." I I that that gives me a lot of inspiration to become on that level one day.
>> People are saying it was in the region of $5 million.
>> It's around that.
>> Yeah.
>> For two for two hours of shooting.
>> And they sent you that figure so you got to see what he was being paid for two hours, which is two He didn't see mine cuz that would have been that would have been embarrassing.
>> So that's a $2.5 million an hour to shoot a commercial and he said no.
>> He said no. So imagine what he wants.
>> And I'm not sure if it's money.
>> Yeah. And that is something I look up to him about. He's one of those guys that doesn't look at a money sign and just say yes to. He's one of those guys that genuinely cares about his craft and his legacy. He still hasn't done a Grinch 2 yet. I know they're shooting it right now, but up to this date, they didn't until last week, they didn't announce that they were shooting Grinch 2. So, how much money was he wanting before? Or was it even about money? Or did he just not want to do another one? You never know. I don't know. But I feel like he's very specific about everything that he does. You ever seen Fire Marshall Bill from In Living Color?
>> No.
>> Oh my god. You have no idea. You haven't seen That's the like damn near the beginning of the character of Grinch. Fire Marshall Bill is like the teaser of what the Grinch became. And the mask, it has a a twist of the mask in there, too. But like
>> he was like the only white person on a living color at the time.
>> The funny checking guy. He's like a very philosophical.
>> For sure.
>> Wise.
>> Yeah, he's very wise man.
>> Have you met him?
>> Never met him. one day. That's another guy that's on my um list that I would love to meet, man. Love love love to meet.
>> Part of the game that we often don't speak about as well with people like yourself is just the rejection along the way
>> because your story could quite easily be portrayed as this sort of like, you know, bump in the road here, college, a couple issues here,
>> this situation happens, Drake calls after you've spent
>> a long time on your own posting and compounding and then off to the races.
>> Happy ending. But there's still rejection along the way. I was reading that you were rejected by both Netflix and Amazon.
>> Yeah. Early on.
>> What was the proposal you made to them and what was that?
>> I think it it was multiple. It wasn't just one time. I think we've we've years and years of proposals and I had like different FX proposals. Like we were supposed to get a show with FX, it was a no. We're supposed to do a movie with Amazon. It was a no. supposed to do multiple different products, do Netflix. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And we just never gave up. And I eventually said, if I'm getting money from these companies and they're paying me, instead of going and buying a car or another house or maybe a nice jewelry and all this stuff, I'm going to invest in myself. And I decided to just go and all these show ideas that I had, I'm going to do it on YouTube and spend my own money to invest into it. And that and that is essentially what I did. And I think that's brought to you could have been auditions that's brought to you could have been love that's brought to you could have been house could have been daddy amongst other things like you've seen in the Druski universe of taking it to another level with all the sketches and the production I've done and the millions of dollars I've spent and all these things I I started to just believe in myself and not turn around and try to oh I'm going to come back and try to do the same proposal again in a better way. It's like I'm just bet on myself
>> and then they cool. Now it's Yeah. It's a whole different story now. Now they want to purchase these shows that we've made and do more in the future. Yeah. So now it's a bidding war. What is the lesson there?
>> The lesson there is just believe in yourself, man. Before anybody sees the vision, you have to see it. If you don't see the vision yourself, you're almost doing yourself a disservice. It has to start with you. And I think most people don't understand what they have in front of them. Everybody's like, "Oh, I'm waiting on the big movie. I'm waiting on my big movie break. Once I do it, d I'm going to do this." Once they give me an opportunity, I'm waiting on my opportunity. I'm going just keep d until they give me I'm keep You don't even believe in yourself, man. All that money you got last year from this and that and all these things. You didn't put not one dime into your content. You still shooting the same with the same phone. And that's cool. Some people are cool with that. You don't need much. Not saying you need the big productions I have. You don't. But are you really doubling down and betting on yourself if you're not investing in your own stuff? And that was a conversation I had to have with myself. And I was like, damn, I'm going to show them not by coming back and doubling back. I'm going to show them by doing it myself and having them wanting what I did in reverse. And maybe they don't want that. Maybe they'll see what I was capable of doing and then wanting to do other things. But along the way, you're going to have to have a lot of smart people for sure who by their job title or their status or their LinkedIn bio evidently know much more than you do telling you that you're wrong. Telling you that that idea is not a good one.
>> Yeah.
>> And that is something that I guess you have to like conceptualize in your head like how do I deal with that? This smart person at insert streaming platform is telling me no.
>> Yeah.
>> But I think yes. And they
>> plenty plenty of people have told me no, man. even down to the dudes that I was telling you that were making fun of me at the college saying, "Oh, you don't even have no shoes to go out with us. Why would we pick you up?" I told those guys on the the second to last week I kind of was going to classes that I was going to try to pursue comedy and they were like, "Bro, come on, man." They were like, "Yo, you're funny, bro, but you ain't you ain't that funny. Think about what you going up against. you going up against like Kevin Hart or like the Kings of Comedy, Bernie Mack and all these guys. Think about it, bro. What they doing that's big. That's like unfathomable. Like you can't even till that day. I'll never forget that conversation cuz it was like a little side conversation with them. Maybe they was like, "Oh, whatever." They probably might not even remember that convers. It was just like a whatever conversation to them. Were they right when they said, "By the way, Drew, those legends are up there and you're down here."
>> Not a not a shot.
>> They weren't right.
>> Not at all. I believed even then I I could already see it happening. Like I had visions of it already being in front of me before I even got a chance to actually do it. I guess also what I'm saying is like they they they could have been theoretically right that there was a long gap. It's not to say you couldn't close it.
>> No. No. There's not to say I couldn't close it. I agree.
>> Yeah.
>> But what they were saying is almost like as if it wasn't even possible.
>> Possible. Yeah. Okay. The way they put it was almost like, "Come on, man. That's so that's so wild to think."
>> Do you know why I say this is because there's so many kids right now that are looking at you
>> or they're looking at, I don't know, insert sports athlete or insert podcaster and they're going, they're looking up at a mountain top and they're going
>> objectively that person is better than me.
>> They have the skills. They have the mannerisms. They have the body language down. Like the gap is so big that I won't even bother. And that's kind of what I'm pointing at is did you ever feel did you ever know the gap was big? I never looked at it like it was a big gap. I always felt because when what I'm going to tell you the the problem with looking at it like it's a big gap. Once you process your brain of thinking this is so far unattainable, the journey becomes not even like you're not even thinking these steps could happen.
>> There has to be steps. So I from me seeing that those guys are great. They've all done amazing thing. I look up to all of them. But I know it's achievable. I I had steps in place that I knew and nobody else could see these steps up to this level of trying to be great.
>> Nobody else sees that. You You're the only person that is able to see these small steps. So once I started to see the small steps, I'm like, I'm only going up a ladder.
>> I'm not not getting closer. I said I know that this is a far maybe thing, but I'm not looking at it like that
>> because every small thing I'm I feel like I'm gaining in on it.
>> So, you're just focused on the small steps.
>> I was focused on the small. I never if you focus on the far goal, no, you'll never achieve man. I'm saying it's funny, but it's the truth. It's like, let's say you're like, "Oh, I'mma win an Oscar." And you just started as an actor. Yes, you can say, "I want to win an Oscar." But what are the small steps you're going to do before achieving? What are the all these stairs all the way to where the this Oscar is at?
>> Mhm.
>> If you don't look at all these stairs, bro, you It's like looking at a mountain without the ladder.
>> You You got to find a way to climb this If you don't see If you don't have no steps or no ladder or nothing, you don't have no way to get to it. I agree with what he is saying in a way, but not really. It's like, I'm going to build my own steps to getting there.
>> Cuz he's saying don't even bother.
>> Yeah, he's saying don't even bother. That is so far out. Come on, man. You're funny, but you ain't. These dudes is like, he's looking at him like they're like a god. Like, this is Don't look at yourself like that. That's you. As if they didn't come from the same thing because those gods, those people you're looking up to, they when they were 19, 20,
>> Yeah.
>> that they probably were,
>> you believe that they just were always destined.
>> Exactly.
>> You're not thinking that. you're you're think you see them in this light of like oh my gosh this is that guy but you don't see the process once you break down what every single great person has done you start to see they all took these steps nothing just was like a overnight thing I do ask myself though because that through that through that journey up the ladder uh sane people it goes back to what I was saying earlier like sane people wouldn't bo like wouldn't bother because there's always up the ladder naysayers and there's easier money Red Lobster.
>> Yes,
>> there's easier money at this call center over here selling this. You can scam over here. Like there's a there's other things going on. And uh
>> there's easy money everywhere, too.
>> That's that's a thing that most people don't recognize. Some people
>> glorify money than they glorify the actual pursuit of of the greatness. Most people will go and grab the money because the money's good and they'll they will dilute the whole brand and wash it away before it was ever even able to start.
>> Mhm. The whole thing. I've had opportunities. People like, "Oh, come and do my music video, do this." And when I was on the way up and I kept thinking, I was like, "Damn, if I do all these random music videos, yeah, he got a couple thousand dollars from me. He's a drug dealer. He got a couple thousand. I go grab this." But I'm thinking about my image. I'm like, damn, this dude music sucks. If I'm doing this for a quick $2,000 and I'm on the way, I'm on the way. I see where my greatness is going, but if I grab this quick money, this might kind of take me off of my pivot. I want to only do
>> special things. I'm not I maybe I just kind of don't look at the money right now and I only focus on the the main goal. And that's when I started to change my way of thinking cuz at first I was grabbing all the money. I'm promoting everybody's music or video and all this stuff. I was like, "Oh, yeah. I'm promoting your your your merch and all this." Then I started to see I'm like, "Damn, I'm creating these great things and I'm giving these looks to all these other things and not myself. This is not where I envisioned myself to be at. I want to not care about all this. I want to put all this in the back of my mind. I'm not even thinking about money. I'm thinking about where I'm going." I was going to say, uh, I was just You look very healthy. look like you've been drinking water. Drinking water. No, but you look like you've been hit like hitting the gym or lifting weights or something.
>> No, man. I just I I had You're on set. You're filming.
>> Yeah. No, I Yeah, we're filming, but also like I just had to like start eating kind of right, too. Like I I started to care about what I was putting into my body and not just not care. I always will continue to be a heavy set guy. I want to be, you know, one of the heavy set legends of all time, but you ain't got to be the biggest dude in the business. I was like, "Okay, I'm going to be a healthy, heavy set guy." And once I set my mind on that, I was like, "All right, that's what I'm going to do. I'm be a healthy, heavy set dude." Cuz I I understand what my image is. I I know that's what I wanted to be. And I've always looked up to all the great legends that were like heavy set dudes like Chris Farley, Cedric Entertainer, Jack Black. These are guys that like heavy set guys I look up to. So, I never not wanted to be that. I just knew. I was like, "All right, both both things can be true." When did you when did you think this?
>> I think like a year ago. He was just like, "All right, every decision doesn't just got to be drinking every night and every decision don't got to be just gorging yourself with food just cuz you got money now." You know, it's like, okay, you can eat these things and still go hoop at the gym with your boys. Both things could be true. And that's I was like, okay, a good balance is a healthy lifestyle. I just wanted to have a good balance with each. So, I'm at a weight where I feel like, all right, I'm comfortable at I'm good. I'm good. You're looking good.
>> Yeah. Thank you, man. Appreciate that.
>> What is next for you in your world? What is What is the big goals, the big games? You're on set shooting a movie.
>> If we sit down in 5 years time, and it's been a great 5 years since we last spoke. What happened?
>> I became a superstar. That is my full pursuit right now is now you see, you don't see the blonde hair. You don't see the long beard. You don't see the Drewuski that you once saw, oh, the social media guy. You see the superstar Drewski and what he has evolved to become. That is what my next 5-year goal is and continuously pass that. Like my next 30-year goal is to be the number one comedian of my generation and be the face of comedy for the next 30 years. how Eddie Murphy did or how Kevin Hart did or the list could go on like Will Frell and all these guys that I look up to. I want to have a run like that. My thing is not just doing one thing for one era. I like to watch people and how they evolve and how they have done different things over their career. when you see Eddie go from the raw stuff into the movies where he's alongside one of the biggest white actors of that time and he leaves SNL and then he goes and does family movies and all this and then he does like Harlem Nights with uh Richard Prior and he does life with Martin Lawrence and they team up and you see good comed I would want to do that same type of stuff for my generation. I want to team up with all the big comedic people of this time. I want to be the face of this generation for comedy.
>> Have you learned to talk big? Because a a lot of people don't have the guts to say, "I want to be a superstar. I want to be the number one in my generation." Have you learned to talk like that? Is it a useful way of talking or have you always spoken like that?
>> I've always spoke that way. Always. Always. even from early on days like I I I I always wanted to be more than just good and I know I say that a lot but that is a it's a true thing.
>> I've got the video from you 10 years ago and you're saying I'm going to be on the same level as me now.
>> No, I know 10 years ago but see Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But at the time the the bar was set lower than what I have the bar set now. One of the things that I always wanted to do I wanted to continue to evolve. So certain things that I've said then I've noticed that I've grown since then and I want to break the chains of that. I want to continue to evolve and become this newer person. I want to do the Jamie Fox and doing the Ray biopic and you get an Oscar for that. Oh my god, that's amazing. But then turn around and do Jango, which is a mixture of comedy and real acting. And then turn around and do a a a funny comedy movie. So, it's like that's the type of evolving I'm looking to do in my career where I can continue to just keep transcending and and I didn't learn to talk that way. That is something that was taught to me from my upbringing. Just being confident in myself and just knowing who you are. And that might have been because my mom was recording me from three, four, five, six, seven years old and continuously on and always trying to have home videos of me dancing and making my family laugh and all this crazy stuff. But yeah, the these are things that I built confidence over time to become, you know, this person. And if you could rewind the clock and say a couple of words to this Drewuski on his uh in that college dorm room on his own, no friends,
>> what does that guy need to hear? I would say to believe in yourself more than you have ever believed in your entire life. You can be iconic. You are great. You are one of one. and to stay consistent even when the road looks rough and you cannot see the hole at the end of the tunnel because that's something that most people usually jump off the railroad for. They can't see the outcome once it gets kind of blurry and it's foggy and the the nose or like like I said, my car got repossessed. Most people quit. That's the point most people quit. their girl cheats on them or something bad happens when you you you sat on your knees and you prayed all night and you prayed pray oh my God please give me this I'm looking for this I want this to happen for me and boom God starts to shift things sh things things start to shift and then people oh my god this I asked him for this yeah it don't it's because he put you through the trial you didn't even get through the trials and the tribulations yet you just he started to remove things from your life as soon as you asked for it and now you're questioning why it happened. It's like this is this is what you essentially wanted. This is what you asked for. And most people, they get off the track before it even starts. They can't see the outcome, so they get worried and they just jump off. It's and and that's what I would tell myself, man. Stay to it. Stick to it. There's an interesting point here which is um you know a lot of us we talk about never quitting but sometimes you do have to quit right because like you quit college I've I quit college and and there's this weird thing because that certain things certain things rappers if you out there and you still rapping past 30 quit get the off that mic and get the hell out that studio quit that So, you're right. Sometimes you do get the out of that studio, man. I agree. No, that to some sort is is true. Yes. Yes.
>> And
>> that's a hell of a way to wrap the entire conversation.
>> But it's interesting because I think it's everything's nuanced and when you've got a passion, of course, you pursue it and when especially when there's evidence.
>> Yeah. But that I I wonder in your industry because there's going to be a lot of people who are pursuing comedy
>> who might not have the and this is the always the like balancing act. We I think you know I started a podcast and it went well. So I've got a little bit of like survivorship bias in a way like
>> so the advice I might give to young podcasters is just like well just like start it in your kitchen and then put and then just keep at it for six years and then
>> but there might have been some advantages that I'm not aware of. In your case, I go I look at you as six years old, you were funny.
>> Yeah.
>> You were funny at six.
>> I wasn't funny at six.
>> Yeah.
>> So, if I tried to to be you,
>> Yeah.
>> I would I objectively What if I at least had a harder time if not total failure?
>> So, there's almost this weird like self-awareness component of knowing thyself.
>> Mhm.
>> Because I might stay in the studio
>> past 50 if you know what I'm saying. Because people like me and you, we of we we we survived. We got there. So, we look back down and just go, you know, con consistency is the number one thing.
>> But somewhere in there, there's like an element of self-awareness. And you must get it all the time. You must have people roll up to you and just start cracking jokes.
>> Yeah.
>> You have to have a good fake laugh. I will say,
>> holy
>> Because it does get bad. People just want to come up to you and say random
>> Yeah.
>> But no, I I do agree with you. You have to have a sense of awareness and your judgment has to be on point because it's not just about staying consistent. It's about knowing the feeling of this is the thing. So, it took me some time with that. It did take me time, but I think most people aren't they're not okay with sitting down in silence and figuring it out.
>> Mhm.
>> Most people will say, "I'm so confused. I'm I can't figure out what I want to do. I don't know what I want to do. I I have all these great things I want to do. I want to do everything. But they don't never put their phone down. They don't never try to sit with theirel and figure things out. Nobody tries to remove themsel from all the stuff. They that same person will tell you that go get high or get drunk or go and leave and go talk to somebody else. And maybe it hurts for them to do that. And that's the thing that people won't sit with themselves and do. That is one of the main things that shifted my entire life was sitting down in silence and figuring out what is it that I want to do. You go through everything you grew up loving to do. You go through everything that you want to pursue and you figure it out through all that. But until you sit in silence and sit with yourself as the true you, not the you that's high, not the you that's drunk, not the you that just wants to go to a friend and talk and go back and forth about, oh, we're so we want to do all this No, you got to sit with yourself and figure this out. Most people don't want to do that, and that's cool, but that is the key to figuring it out by far. Trishi, we have a closing tradition where the last guest leaves a question for the next, not knowing who they're leaving it for. Mhm.
>> The question left for you,
>> if you could make it happen, who would you most want to be like in your next life?
>> Oh man, that's currently alive. Doesn't say.
>> Michael Jackson.
>> Why? He's arguably the most iconic individual of all time. He achieved real greatness. Real greatness of like of all aspects of perfecting a craft. He figured out a way to do it all. He had gangsters dancing in his music video. He changed his persona. He continued to evolve with his career. He went from the kid artist. Most people can't go from the kid to the real one and still have success. They can't do that. Most people can never do that, bro. He created a whole new entity, a whole new person, and you forgot that he was the Jackson 5 kid. You This is a whole new guy. I would say it would have had to be him for sure.
>> I watched your uh skit pretending to be his father.
>> Joe Jackson.
>> Life in the 1960s where you could get away with just about anything.
>> How was school, Jack?
>> It was good. I'd probably start passing my classes again.
>> Jackie got a girlfriend.
>> AIN'T Y'ALL WORRIED ABOUT SELLING RECORDS?
>> CALM DOWN, JOSEPH. You're scaring the boys.
>> TALKING ABOUT HIT RECORDS. WHO DONE MADE A HIT RECORD IN THIS HOUSE?
>> I'M tired of dancing.
>> You want me to take this belt off? Fix your face, Michael, before I fix it for you.
>> Joe, can we get ice cream after this? Yeah, that was some aspects of Joe Jackson that my dad had some personality.
>> Oh Yeah. Oh, damn. Yeah,
>> for real.
>> It wasn't hard to uh to rip that belt off, man. I've seen it before. Yeah. Hell yeah.
>> What can people look forward to from you? Where should we point them? What What are you working? What's your next big project to
>> Next big project? Uh the Collect and Praise show that's coming out in November. Me and Mike Eps. It's a show about mega pastors. I did a mega passion skin. That was huge. Um, and this show is a huge comedic semi-scripted TV show that'll be coming to
>> Netflix and YouTube.
>> Okay.
>> So, so it is it is between both of us and it is honestly one of the biggest culture shifting shows of all time, bro. This is going to be amazing. So, that that's a big one that's coming. The catch with Emma Stone, Chris Pine, that's coming out in May of 2027. That's a while out. And then just more of Drewuski like you're also just going to see me everywhere. TV commercials, uh, movies that we're doing oursel. Um, we just got a movie picked up by Netflix. I can't speak on what it's called. Um, and yeah, amongst so many other things. Man, I'm I'm trying to achieve greatness. So, it's super inspiring for so many reasons. It's inspiring because you're so young, but it's also it's inspiring because you're so willing to vocalize your your focus on being truly great. And I think that asks of everybody listening, how can we be greater, you know, and also considering where you've come from and the
>> turbulent childhood you had and the odds were very much stacked against you for num numbers of reasons, for you to pass your way through that and climb to the very top
>> of your industry with much more room to continue to grow in the 60 70 years you have probably left on this planet is going to be unbelievable to watch. and you're a good human being
>> on and off camera, which I I respect tremendously. So, we're all going to be cheering for you. And thank you so much for being here. It's been an honor.
>> Great to meet you, man. I'm a big fan of your show. You do really well with everything.
>> YouTube have this new crazy algorithm where they know exactly what video you would like to watch next based on AI and all of your viewing behavior. And the algorithm says that this video is the perfect video for you. It's different for everybody looking right now. Check this video out and I bet you, you might love it.