Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Wednesday, October 15th and well, we're green. We are green in the pre-markets. Past 24 hours have been quite hilarious given yesterday we had a 1.5% draw down for about 20 minutes and then we started reversing. didn't know if we would fully recover all of the essentially market cap that we lost which was about 500 billion and we recovered and towards the end of the day five minutes before I went live for the market close yesterday we were pretty much green to go and then we ended up getting the tweet and everyone who has kept up with the channel or just kept up with the market over the past 24 hours knows what the tweet is. We got the soybean tweet and it kind of messed up the end of the the day. Uh you had Trump saying that I think China is purposely not buying our soybeans. As a result, we are going to stop buying their cooking oil. Cooking oil uh for China is a big business. The United States makes up 43% of the amount of cooking oil that they export globally. So obviously it's a big thing for China if Trump were to say that the United States would stop buying their cooking oil. And then the market fell and it didn't have a dramatic fall, but nonetheless it did, you know, didn't fully recover. Didn't close at the highs that it was at yesterday. We were at 665, went all the way to 662. We started at 653, so it was a little bit weird to end out the day for him to put out that tweet. Today, the market doesn't care about soybeans. S&P 500 up 1% in the pre-market, 66744. Robin Hood's up 2%. Pounder's up 1%. Tesla's up 1%. Nvidia, which got a brand new price target of 320 that we'll talk about. That's up 184, 2.3%. Grabb's up 3%. Google's up 1%. SoFi is up 3%. I mean, it's almost like soybeans had an impact for like less than I would call it 12 hours. And I mean, the S&P is only about a percent and a half away from alltime highs and we were just at all time highs on Friday when we lost it with the Trump China stuff. So, pretty incredible stuff to see over the past uh essentially 24 hours. But the soybeans that did create the pain for like 12 hours are not creating that much pain too much, at least not anymore. So, we got a lot to talk about. We'll get into it, but I think that's kind of the first thing to start us off, which is that whatever pain that was caused yesterday by the soybeans seems like the market's ignoring it. Now, maybe it's a head fake when we get into the market open, but as of now, you're seeing some pretty bullish green action, and there's reasons for why we're seeing that green action that we'll get into. The banks, they crushed it. Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, we'll talk about that. It doesn't look like the banks are slowing down. There are more data center deals. Black Rockck entered into a $40 billion agreement with uh Nvidia and Microsoft today. We'll talk about the implications of that on data centers. IN that stock continues to just be a fantastic stock. Uh 7360. It did hit 74 in the pre-markets. It looks like it wants to bust through 75. So this one has been incredible. Bit Barnes, CleanSpark, all those data center plays have done very well. And then you had what JPAL said yesterday. So we'll talk more about what JPAL said, which quite frankly is probably more important than soybeans. Uh essentially he said hey we are going to get back to quantitative easing or at least we're not going to be quantitative tightening as hard as were before and as a result I mean you know if rates are coming down and the Fed is going to be buying up bonds on the balance sheet then you know that's not going to be the worst thing for the equity markets. So that's what we got going on. We got a lot to get into. Thank you. Thank you everybody for being here. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Buy puts on soybeans. Yeah. Imagine getting liquidated yesterday over cooking oil or soybeans. I mean, like, it was ridiculous what was happening yesterday, but it doesn't seem like the market cares that much about it anymore, and that is not too bad of a thing. All right, so let's get into it. Again, good morning. Thank you everybody for being here. I think we'll start off with um I think we'll start off with some of this data. So, actually, let's start off with the banks. The banks honestly just continue to crush it and and they're crushing it in a way that is quite unprecedented. So, let me just play a clip right here of Morgan Stanley and their earnings and how the banks or at least the trend of what the banks are doing. Morgan Stanley had their best beat on earnings since 2021. It is not easy to put up these types of numbers, but nonetheless, that's what they did. It's a 35% EPS and well, the streets liking it because if the banks are doing well, tech companies are probably going to do well as we get into earnings going into next week. Yeah, I am seeing a beat here. the biggest revenue beat it looks like since Q1 of 21. Uh so about 4 and a half years of 18.2 billion on the top line compared to estimates of 16.69 billion. So that's record net revenues for Q3 for Morgan Stanley. Also a beat on the bottom line coming in about 70 cents higher than consensus here. Uh all three of its major divisions beat expectations largely by a long shot. institutional securities. That's the one that houses M&A advisory, equity underwriting, debt underwriting, trading, and so forth. That was a a very sizable beat, more than a billion dollars uh compared to what the street was expecting here. Uh investment banking was up 44% um coming in at 2.1 billion. Advisory, equity underwriting, fixed income underwriting, all beating expectations and much much higher than a year ago as well. Uh the I mean this was just one of the most incredible bank earnings that I've ever seen. So Bank of America crushed it as well. Uh they beat on EPS 106 versus 95 cents, 28 billion versus 27.4 and then Morgan Stanley 280 versus 207. I mean banks don't beat by 35%. That is not normal for a bank. It's a bank at the end of the day. This is a bank that's beating by almost 40% on earnings. And then 18.2 billion versus 16.7, that's a $ 1.5 billion beat on revenue. Yeah. Imagine SoFi. I mean, if these banks that are legacy banks that are not growing anywhere near the 40% range that SoFi did last quarter, I think the analysts have them at 30%. If they come in at 35% in Q3, that would be a massive beat, much less if they come back in at 40%. That would be two quarters in a row of above 40. Um, this is pretty incredible stuff to see. Wells Fargo, JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, City Group, and Black Rockck yesterday also kept up with the same. So, what is the takeaway for investors? Even if you're not invested in banks, I think the most important thing to start off Q3 earnings was, hey, are financials in a healthy spot? Are loan dispersals in a healthy spot? Is capital spending, M&A, IPO, underwriting, delinquency rates? Are all these things healthy? And these stocks, all of them are up 20 to 30% on the year. So that, you know, the stock price might not uh dramatically go higher simply because a lot of the growth is priced in. But the point is these stock prices don't have to go lower even if the growth is priced in. And if anything, they have the potential for multiple expansion. Morgan Stanley I think was up 3%. Morgan Stanley up 3.92%. Bank of America I think was actually up 5%. BA now up 3.83%. So I mean this is really good to see. We get into tech earnings next week. We did have ASML which had a decent earnings. I don't think it was a phenomenal earnings. That stock right there is up about four and a half%. There were a couple things they missed on but overall demand for semiconductors and lithography seems to be strong. So we'll talk more about that in a bit. But uh the tech earnings next week are going to be some of the most important earnings and it doesn't look like the banks are giving any you know uh necessity to think that there is an issue in the overall financial health of the broader markets. And so that's what we got for the banks. Seems like they're doing okay. Uh let's talk about Nvidia real quick and then we'll get into some of the other headlines we have. So Nvidia got upgraded by HSBC to a street high 200 to 320. It's quite a move. 200 to 320. And the reason they got upgraded to that extent, remember Caner upgraded Nvidia uh to 300 last week from 240. So there is now a new street high target. The reason for that is because of the overall TAM for their revenues and what the street thinks it can put up. So instead of doing 258 billion by fiscal year 2027, HSB says HSBC thinks that we can do 351 billion of revenues for Nvidia. That is 36% higher than the expectations. And you had Caner last week say, "We think they can do $11 of EPS," which would be um 50% higher than the expectations. So, I mean, 320 sounds kind of crazy. That would be a $7.5 trillion company. But to put some context of the numbers, if Nvidia gets to $1 of EPS by 2027 and 351 billions of revenues by 2027, they'd only be trading at 27 times forward earnings and 21 times forward price of sales. Right now the stock is more expensive than both of those metrics on a price of sales and a PE basis which means theoretically if the stock were to go up from 180 to to 320. It would get cheaper because the growth would be so substantial that the growth would actually bring down the multiple even if the stock price goes up. I mean it is very rare to find companies at this scale that can actually do what Nvidia is doing and can actually get the multiple expansion while the growth continues to come down or the growth continues to go up but the multiples continue to come down and as a result I think that's why you know a lot of the street continues to upgrade Nvidia not to mention you had this update today which is just bolstering the fact for your argument on Nvidia AMD Oracle Broadcom IN cipher etc. Here's the headline. Black Rockck, Invidia, Microsoft, and XAI have formed a consortium to acquire Aligned Data Centers, which is a company for $40 billion. The acquisition is the first under their new hundred billion dollar AI infrastructure partnership, which is the partnership with Abu Dhabi's MGX, which combines tech expertise and investments to build data centers for OpenAI, Google, and Meta. Larry Frink, the head of Black Rockck, told the Financial Times that the venture will lease data centers to tech firms, keeping them off balance sheets and aiding valuations. And essentially, you're seeing Black Rockck and Nvidia, two of the most important companies in the world, partner together to fuel the expansion of data centers. I mean, if you're bullish IN this is why you should probably be continue to be bullish I if you're bullish Cipher or Bit Farms or AMD, I mean obviously all the data center players are benefiting from this. All the companies that sell the GPUs like an AMD and Nvidia are benefiting from this. But all the parts of the ecosystem, the SMCIS of the world, the Dells of the world, the Microns of the world, SMCI up 3% on the day. Micron right here, by the way, Micron's had a phenomenal run up 2%. Micron up 60% over the past five months. All of them getting some momentum from this. Nebus obviously big player here. That's up 2.7%. And then Coreweave as well, that's up 2.6%. So the question then becomes, and I'm getting this question a lot because a lot of people are asking, hey, Microsoft right here up half a percent on this news. Does that mean I buy I rent? Does that mean I buy Bit Farms which has gone from 250 to like what's it at in the pre-market 624? Uh does that mean I buy CleanSpark? Does that mean I buy Marathon etc? My answer is the same answer as as I had yesterday. You have to figure out is your risk tolerance ready to deal with these companies after they've already gone up some of them 10x some of them 5x some of them 3x in the past couple of weeks not even the past couple of months. So I think the broader like I think the most objective way to answer this is that the broader macro theme for an Iran cipher bit farms etc is positive and it's likely going to continue if you just believe in the overall capex spent I think there's way too much evidence to deny that that's not happening the question becomes do you take a risk on one of those individual stocks if you're not already in it if you're already in it I think you sit back I really do think you sit back I mean maybe you can trim if you want to you know take some profits or take out your initial but I I think if the trend is higher and you believe in the company then the tailwind wind of the trend in and of itself should take the company higher. Like if I'm in Nebius at 30 or 40 or 50 or even 80 after that Microsoft deal, I'm not that worried about taking my profits at 130 140 because the overall tailwind should be going higher. If you are a new entrant to any of those companies, you got to ask yourself how much do you believe in the company? And that comes down to personal due diligence. That also comes down to the valuation metrics. That comes down to hey, how much do you think they can actually get on the GPU ROIs? I mean, I ran seems to be the best in the field. I have a very small position in it. nothing too massive. Based on a couple of equity reports I read, I ran has the best price targets because of their ability to license GPUs better than some of the other ones. Uh but it's also run a lot. It's also run a lot. So I I really think for those that are feeling the FOMO of getting into those you the trend is on your side. The question is are you getting in at a great valuation? And that comes down to like you know do you actually understand the company enough to feel comfortable buying dips or continue buying into strength? But it doesn't seem like that trend is slowing down anytime soon. Yeah, Terolf. I mean, all these guys and Cipher and Terwolf getting investments by Google definitely adds to their legitimacy. But these stocks are quite incredible. I mean, every day you wake up, Iren's up another four or five percent because this whole data center theme continues to be stronger. Now, is that necessarily healthy? I don't know. I mean, if I continues to execute, one can't say it's not healthy. Uh because, you know, the execution will continue to justify the multiple. But if there's any hiccups, these stocks are not priced for those hiccups. These stocks are priced for phenomenal execution. And you have to ask yourself, how much do you believe in the ability for management to execute? I mean, this is what basically Mike Norat said. He said, "Hey, you really got to look into do you believe management that is transitioning a company that was not making any money doing Bitcoin mining into a data center play. Are they worth uh taking a bet on?" And I think that's kind of one of the most important things to play out right here. Sound in the pre-markets, that's moving up. Look at that. Wow. 5% on Sound. That is getting some love. I don't know if there's a headline right there. They did have a good earnings two weeks ago and that one has done a pretty strong move. I think the stock was at like 14 before earnings. So 22, not too bad right here. And then BMR in the pre-markets. This one's been flat all week. Kind of up and then flat. Obviously, Ethereum fell all the way to 3,400 and then recovered to 4200, back down to 4,000. So Bitmine right here staying just below 55. Um, hard for this to break above 60 unless Ethereum is back at that 44,500 range, but at least it's not at uh at 47. So this is what you got in the context of what's going on with AI and data centers. Let's transition to Mr. Brad Gersonner. He was on CNBC today and here are his thoughts on what's going on with the concept of a bubble, if we're in a bubble, and where this AI ecosystem is going, some kind of bubble. And he put us on a comparable basis, he thought of October of 1999, which was an interesting moment because the market still had 40% to go, right? That's right. Um, well, first, you rarely have a bubble when the hottest book in New York is about a stock market crash and everybody who comes on the show talks about a bubble. There's a bubble in bubbles. Howard Mark said, you know, it's too early because everybody's talking about a bubble. If you look at if you look at multiples as an example, you called out Bernstein yesterday, I thought was great. He was talking about 50 times trailing PE for Nvidia. It's a it's 25 to 30 times on a forward PE. That's not the stuff that bubbles are generally made of. But certainly the further and further you go out on the risk curve, Andrew, you will find things that make you scratch your head. You say, "I wouldn't have done that deal." And they're going to be meme stocks that certainly, you know, have no revenue, Becky, and you know, in the quantum space or whatever where you say that valuation doesn't make any sense. But we have this all the time. The bigger question is this is the phase shift associated with AI is the transformation of all computing with now computer assisted intelligence is it as as big as the internet and I would argue that it's as big as the internet and if you spend all your time hand ringing like many people did in 2001 and 2002 about the internet saying I told you so they miss the next 20 years of compounding in Amazon in Google and all these big way I would agree with you in I think AI is going to change the world. It's a generational shift for all of us. The question is, could there be a hiccup along the way? And what does that hiccup look like in terms of right now when you say to yourself the upside in this marketplace today versus the downside? We had an analyst on earlier this morning who said, you know what, it's going to be hard to reach materially higher numbers right now. But she kind of thought, you know, could the market be off five or 10%. She said that didn't seem totally unreasonable to her. We've had two 25% draw downs in Nvidia this year, right? Remember the deepseek moment? Stock went stock was down 25%. And then on the tariff moment, the stock got down to 92 bucks a share. It's at 180 today. So volatility is the name of the game for two reasons. Number one, we have a president that's trying to reset global trade policy, national industrial policy in the in the middle of a super cycle. So that's just a lot of uncertainty. So I think that's healthy in a market, right? It's not straight up and to the right. We've had a lot of draw downs this year. And if you look at these stocks and you say to me, does it make sense that Nvidia is up 35% given that their topline has grown way faster than 50%. The answer is yes. It's cheaper today than when the stock was $200 a share. But but here here's the the real trick and and that is we can tell the difference between some crazy meme stock or a you know a new crypto junkcoin that we've never heard of and Nvidia, right? But how do you as an investor find those gradiations in the middle? What how do you determine what's real, what's not when it's not so extreme? I think it's a great question, Becky. If you look at how uh on the venture capital side of things, you see this barbell approach and we're following it as well, right? We're we're really large investors in open AI, clear breakout market winners. On the other hand, we're investing in, you know, very small companies where we're buying 10 to 20% of the company. In the middle are these inflection growth assets, really high valuations, but haven't yet proven that they're the multi-year compounder. There are over a thousand of those in Silicon Valley, over a billion dollars that are trying to raise capital right now. That's where I think you're going to see a lot of the chop, a lot of the washing out. You'll also see that in the public markets, right? This is a moment of uh uh you know, peak uh creative destruction, right? There are winners and there are losers. And that's why we see the volatility. How can Oracle, Joe, be up 25% on earnings? It's a, you know, it's a headscratcher when they announce these deals because they're gaining hundreds of billions of market cap in a single morning. You only have that when you have this level of uncertainty about the path forward. So look, I think Gersonner is making some really important points and it's quite similar to I think what we've been talking about over the past couple weeks, which is the question of a bubble gets asked and his argument is essentially, hey, if these stocks that are uh memeish, I mean, he literally says these these companies that have overinflated valuations, no revenues, multi-billion dollar market caps, if they go to zero, it doesn't affect the market. If they go to zero, it doesn't affect the market. And I think that's basically been the stance of all of us that believe in this bull market and have been trying to fight off the the sort of toppy nature of like seeing a meme stock ETF run up 20% in a day, which is hey, if all the stocks in that meme stock ETF end up going to zero, it does not affect the transformational shift we're seeing of AI, which is a whole different sort of philosophical argument on how you think of technology. And B, it doesn't stop the earnings growth that we're seeing from the actual legitimate companies, the Morgan Stanley's, the Goldman Sachs of the world, the Netflixes, the Nvidas, the AMDs, etc. that are producing the earnings that justify why the S&P trades at these levels. And so the question then becomes, you know, for for most people, which is, hey, all right, do I do I hop on the trend of Olo, which is hitting a new all-time high in the pre-markets? And every day you see this thing hit a new all-time high. Obviously, psychologically, it's hard to navigate that, but I think you just listen to what Brad Gersonner said, which is a lot of the companies in the middle are going to get wiped out, private or public. Is Aqua one of them? I have no idea. Are the quantum stocks one of them? I have no idea. But the point is trying to short them maybe is not the easiest. Trying to go long is also not the easiest. It really is one of those questions of how much risk do you want to take versus buying companies in the fundamental shift of our society aka the Nvidas of the world that yes are not going to give you the upside of an Ollo probably but are going to allow you to sleep at night and I think that is the the most important question. Now again, we we we spent a lot of time yesterday talking about FOMO and the reason we talked about it is because it is really hard when you wake up and you see Olo's up another 10 bucks in the pre-market and you know you see this thing that was at six then 20 then 30 then 40 then 50 then 60 at 100 you're like there's no way it can go higher at 120 you're like it's a bubble at 150 you're like there's no way in hell it goes higher now it's 184 at 200 it's going to feel worse but do you take the risk of getting into it I'm not you know for everyone who's asking me like I'm just not I don't want to take that risk And I don't think you need to take that risk. And I think Brad Gersonner, by the way, who manages $5 billion, he's not taking that risk either. He's betting on the companies that he knows are going to outperform long term and that have solid moes that they can be um relied upon. And that's the important thing. Someone says everything is running. It's super concerning. I will not disagree. It does feel super concerning that lots and lots of things are running. I mean to add to the concerning part of this which you know might bake into a thesis for people that want to go short some of these names or at least buy puts on some of these names as a hedge which I don't hate. It's just you have to be ready with that short or those puts going to zero because you know the cliche is that the market can stay rational longer than you can stay solvent. Uh 5x single stock ETFs are coming folks. 5x single stock ETFs are coming. This is by Volatility Shares. Uh effective on December 29th, 2025. You will be able to go 5x long. AMD, Amazon, Coinbase, Circle, Google, Microgy, Nvidia, Palanteer, Tesla, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Salana, XRP, and you will also be able to go 3x long. All of those names as well. That means if Palanteer falls 10% in a day, your 5x Palanteer ETF will fall 50%. In a day, it's almost like the perpetual futures contracts that we've been talking about in the crypto world. Obviously, you can go like from 10x to 150x on those. Well, this company, Volatility Shares, is coming up with the way to go 5x, which is still pretty aggressive in the form of a freaking ETF, which makes it so easy because all you have to do is, you know, press one button and then boom, you have 5x leverage. I mean, does this feel kind of toppy? Yeah, you don't see these products in a bare market. You don't see these types of products where, and imagine they, you know, accumulate significant AUM. You're talking about potentially hundreds of millions or billions of dollars that are leveraging up on pretty important companies, I would say, in the stock market. Three to 5x long. How long until we get a 10x ETF? Well, if these succeed, we'll probably get the 10x ETF, too. So the point is, look, when you see this type of stuff, when you see the quantum thing going crazy, when you see the nuclear stocks that have no revenue getting $30 billion valuations, you have to ask yourself, is this a market top or is this an individual part of the market that is going to get flushed out and a lot of people are going to lose a lot of money, but that is not going to affect the broader theme of this bull market. And I think based on what Brad Gersonner said, I would agree it's likely not affecting the broader theme of this market because that theme is so strong in regards to AI and capex. By the way, speaking of Oaklo and some of these nuclear stocks, I mean, one of the reasons that it's actually running in the pre-market right here is because of this. The Army today has announced a program called Janice for next generation nuclear energy. The Department of the Army today announced the launch of the Janis program, a next generation nuclear power program that will deliver resilient, secure, and assured energy to support national defense installations and critical missions. We don't know if Oaklo is going to be a winner in this new Janis program or if SMR or if nanuclear energy but the point is the theme of nuclear is hot. It matters in AI. You got the the department of the army coming out saying that they're going to be very supportive of nuclear energy. You have ties between Oaklo and the DOE and and the the secretary of energy. And as a result of that, you're going to get a stock that will have tons of momentum on the narrative alone go up. And your job as an investor is to decide do you want to trade on those narratives or do you want to take a risk on those narratives and I think Gersonner's argument is like you don't need to because at the end of the day you can find other names that are doing very well in the broader trend that doesn't have to allow the entire bull market to end. Here is his argument on some of the winners that will be taking place in this AI market. Let's talk about the certainty that you think you have about the path forward. Yeah. So you would say who are going to be the ultimate winners in all this right now? Yeah. Well, I mean, I think Nvidia you think is obviously a winner. Would you would you touch an AMD? Would you touch a Broadcom? Sure. We've owned We've We own Broadcom. We've owned AMD. What I would say is if you go back to 2022, and I showed this graphic on the podcast recently, in 2022, right, only two and a half years ago, Andrew, AMD and Nvidia had the same revenue. Yeah. This year, AMD will do just over 30 billion and Nvidia will do 225 billion. 100% of the incremental market share to AI basically has gone to NVIDIA, right? AMD missed the wave, but to Lisa's credit, she raised her hand and said, "I'm betting the farm. I'm going to give 10% of my company to OpenAI and I'm going to bet that the MI450 is going to work and it's going to be competitive with Nvidia." That's not exactly the position of strength that you want to be coming at it, but it's also a recognition. Lisa said, "We're in year two of a 10-year super cycle to build out the compute in America. If you're not on the AI wave, then you're not going to participate in all that upside." When you think about the big LLMs, OpenAI, at least clearly seems like they are going to be a winner. Google, I don't know where you think Anthropic lands in all of this. I know you own Meta. Yep. They're trying to play this game, but playing in an open source way. Does that work? Yeah. So uh let's let's bucket it into consumer and enterprise. I think that's the easiest way. On the consumer side, I've invested in three or four super cycles now. The internet super cycle, the social, mobile, etc. The winner tends to be winner take most, right? So Google had a lot of competitors, 20 competitors in search, they all have pretty good technologies, but Google consumed 98% of all the upside ever associated with search. Meta in the uh in in the case of social, Apple obviously with the app store. I think chat GPT at one uh you know well over a billion and a half monthly users over 800 million weekly users and what most people don't talk about is the engagement engagement is going up. So if you look at the cohorts under those numbers they're extraordinary and so I think they're they're breakaway now in consumer. Can Google catch them? I think it's very challenging. Can Meta catch them? I think challenging. Will they build good businesses around AI? Yes. Right. These are money machines. the best his the best businesses in the history of capitalism. They're going nowhere. I'm impressed by what Sundar is doing. I'm also impressed by what Alexander Wang and the team at Meta are doing in but they know how hard it's going to be to catch up in consumer on the so you've got a lot of praise by Gersonner for those max 7 stocks that are likely not going anywhere. Google obviously have that phenomenal run from 150 basically up to 250 and it is holding these 200 levels. The next one that a lot of people are wondering about is Amazon. Will it actually be able to make the run that some people think it can make? And look, I've started adding a lot more Amazon. Uh I I really do think that this is a safer play to be in. It's Amazon at the end. There's not a lot of stocks where you can say if it falls 20%, who cares? It's Amazon. You can say that about Amazon. Like if CleanSpark falls 20%. You can't be like, who cares? It's CleanSpark. It's like no Amazon falls. Amazon falls 30%. Who cares? It's Amazon. Like we know Amazon over the next decade is not going anywhere. That doesn't mean the company doesn't have to execute. That does mean that you can actually know whatever price you're getting it. If you truly do have a 10-year trajectory, not like a 10-month trajectory, you're going to be okay holding on to Amazon. It can become a cornerstone of a lot of people's portfolios. Uh I want to give some credit right here to some DD I found on Amazon by Austin. It's a great Twitter account. I'm going to put this in the chat. Definitely would recommend taking a follow right here. He was screaming about Google at 150 and uh obviously he was vindicated on that. Amazon is now his second largest holding, about 11.5% of his portfolio. And just running through his points real quick, his argument is, hey, Jeff is not checked out. Jeff spends a lot of time talking about AI. He even said in interviews that he goes to the company on a monthly basis and discusses their AI strategy. So although Jasse is the leader of AWS and the head of the company, uh Jeff is still chairman of the board, he still owns 9% of the company. Second point, which is another really important point, Tranium 2 chips are now ramping along with step change improvements in Nvidia's product line, leading to increased token production, which means at its core, it's not like Tranium is necessarily going to undercut Nvidia, but Google's TPUs, Amazon's Tranium, there is an ability for Amazon to gain a lot more operating leverage by developing their own chips. And that's something that probably can't be denied. Uh, here is a really interesting stat that I saw. The 12 months ended AWS revenues was 98.5 billion, and for 2025, that number is 116 billion. The 17.5 billion growth year-over-year on a TTM basis for AWS is onethird of Google's run rate at 50 billion. I mean, that's incredible, dude. So, I know we we we harp on AWS for not growing as much as GCP and and and uh and Azure, but obviously Amazon has been in this since 2006. They just have a higher base. And so, them being punished because they're not growing as fast, but they're doing substantially more amounts of volume is not a reason they should be punished. That's why every analyst on the SE street whether it's Oppenheenimer, JP Morgan, Benchmark, Bernstein, Goldman Sachs, they all have $280 to $300 targets and they have those targets because they understand that this is not slowing down. He then says at a 36% segment margin that could expand for AWS and with years of demand ahead, AWS's contribution to operating income could still be underestimated. I think one of the reasons Amazon fell last quarter is because their operating leverage went from 12.5 to 12.4. I know it's 0.1 like what difference does it make? For a company that doesn't really have the best margins because a lot of it is, you know, selling stuff from China, you need to get those margins to go higher and AWS is making up the bulk of those margins. If that margin can expand due to efficiencies via AI, which you would imagine every company is working on, then operating leverage should increase. If that is the case, net income should increase. If that is the case, you're probably getting a better price to earnings, which means the multiple ultimately expands. And then the final thing right here, he says that advertising, which we don't talk about that much on Amazon, 61 billion annually recurring revenue is growing 20%. It's a very high margin segment of their business. They're taking a lot of market share away from the other smaller companies in adtech because Amazon has all their data already. And as a result, the subscription revenue being 47 billion annually recurring advertising being at 61. Any ramp up in AWS, I think really is going to be where this stock gets exciting. I don't know if it happens by the end of the year. I don't know if the stock is 250 the end of the year. If it's stuck at 210, stuck at 215, barely above 220. I just know if I'm buying a stock like an Amazon, I am not afraid of owning it at whatever price because you're likely going to have a five-year trajectory where Amazon does much better. There's Austin Twitter, by the way, if anyone wants to follow Mike. He does really really good due diligence on a lot of these max seven names. Now, one last thing about Amazon right here, right here, there was a chart yesterday showing that Amazon has outperformed the NASDAQ, which sucks, right? Because the NASDAQ over the past five years is up 107%. Amazon is only up 32%. So it it makes you, you know, wonder what the heck is going on. Why is Amazon uh not able, you know, to outperform an index? Usually individual MAX 7 should be able to do that. But if you go out 10 years and take a look at what's going on, the NASDAQ's up 450%, Amazon's up 700%. So with Amazon, it's one of those companies where the multiple has always been expensive. the multiples now really start to to become cheap because the stock has not really performed. Um, and if you go out a few years back, you'll see that if you you put in those extra couple years of growth in terms of the stock price, it vastly beats the NASDAQ. And so I think the opportunity is in the underperformance of Amazon relative to old Mac 7 and the the sort of swan aspect of the stock, the sleep well at night aspect allows you to know that growth is not stopping. And as Andy says right here, sentiment can change overnight with Amazon. So look, you can either get into a core, which by the way, we just got an update from the Wall Street Journal right here. Coreweave is going to be partnering with AI chip cluster company Poolside. Uh AI Poolside is an AI startup and Cororee is going to be planning a massive West Texas data center with them. Just incredible, incredible growth in the data center space. Cory, right, they're up 5%. You can either buy coreweave or you can buy Amazon. There is not a right or wrong answer. Amazon will probably help you sleep a little bit better at night and it's not going to give you the ROI that a core can give you. Coreeave is probably going to vastly outperform in my opinion just based on the narrative, momentum, general growth, etc. of an Amazon over the next couple years if everything goes according to plan, but you're also not getting it at the most perfect valuation. You might be getting it at a nosebleleed valuation quite frankly and you might end up holding a little bit of a bag long term. I think you'll be okay with corweed. ultimately comes down to at this stage of the market, 10 months into the year where most of our year-to- dates are well above what the S&P has done, how much risk do you want to take? And I don't think it's bad to buy Cororeweave. I just think it's more risky than an Amazon. And so, it all comes down to the subjective valuation of how much risk you want to take. But the data center news is not slowing down, which is why those narratives are very, very important. And given Amazon's almost a $3 trillion company, the data center news isn't that much of a tailwind for them because, you know, Core Weave is a $50 billion company. it's easier for that stock to move. But another data center uh news for Core Weave and that's why that stock is up. Okay, Apple. We got a bunch of headlines right here for Apple. Apparently, they have announced um a ton of new products. A ton of new products. By the way, Matt Money in the chat saying that Amazon will be a $10 trillion company one day. I think Steve agrees with them. I mean, you're likely going to Steve Well, Steve has done the math and he thinks I think Matt has also said this that Amazon will be the first company to do a trillion dollars in revenue. I think you're looking at like 2030ish when they do a 2029. I think right now they do like 650. So, I mean, it's going to be quite incredible. And a company doing a trillion dollar in revenue likely is not is not going away anytime soon. Okay. So, what did Apple introduce? M5 chip. Uh, new iPad Pro $999. New 14inch MacBook Pro M5 starts at $1,600. So, that's what we got for Apple. The stock is up a little bit right here. Um, new M5 chip for the iPad Pro, new M5 chip for the MacBook Pro. Also, they have enhanced the capabilities of the Vision Pro with an M5 chip and a more comfortable dual knit band. Dude, I wish I freaking wish Apple would give us the numbers on how much how many Vision Pros they sell. I don't even know if it's worth updating the Vision Pro with a more comfortable band. Every time you go to an Apple store, no one is trying out the Vision Pro. like no one. It's been two years, dude. That came out in June of 2023. That product came out a while ago, and I don't really see anyone using it, but the fact that they're still actually updating it is quite incredible. But, uh, that's what we got in the context of Apple. That stock right there at 250 in the pre-markets, and that is green. Big Bear AI, that had a big move yesterday, 922, that's up another 3.4%. Rocket Lab, are we above 70? We are back above 70. That's up 4.2%. ASTS was almost at 100. AS14. looks like it wants to break through on that $100 level. Uh so you got AS, Rock Lab, and Big Bear AI all going green. Na'vi, are we still above 14? We are at 1308. This one had a monster 35% move over the past couple days. That one continues uh to go green. TSM, how's that doing? They have earnings tomorrow, which is actually at like 3 a.m. tonight. So if anyone's awake, you'll see the results posted, at least if you're on Twitter. Uh TSM, wow, 307. That's green. likely because of ASML. Okay, so let's talk ASML real quick. They missed on revenue, but they beat on the top line. That's why they're up 5% right here. They also bought back a ton of shares. Management's commentary was not like the best commentary. It wasn't really on the offensive when I was reading it. It was a little bit more Okay, I think we're back. Are we back? Can you guys hear me? Let me know if uh people can hear me. Dude, I don't know what just happened. You guys can hear me? Yes. Yes. Yes. No. That was weird. Let me know if people can hear me or not. Yeah, my lights went out, bro. That was I don't know what's Yeah, maybe the nor easter affecting some of the stuff. The rain is not that heavy. Yes, we can hear me. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Our building lost power to be honest. Um, that is wild. But I think we're here. The the the It's going to be a little tough because my phone hotspot is not Dude, this is trippy there. There's Let me Let me hold on. Let me open the windows a little bit. Let's get some light in here. Let's see. Okay, we have some lights a little bit. Um, I don't know why we lost power. I don't know why we lost power. That is very rear, but that might end up hurting the entire show to be honest. Let me let me know if you guys hear me in the chat. You should be able to hear me. the uh I don't know why the power just went out across the entire board. That's weird, bro. That's super super weird, dude. The bill is paid. It's not about able to. We got five minutes until I don't know run this off my phone. Let me just see if I can get an update. That is weird. That is freaking weird. The audio is crappy. Okay, hold on. Let me Let me see this right here. Yeah, it's it No, everyone lost power. Everyone lost power. There's an app for the building. It's not just me. It's uh it's it's it's not my utilities. Yeah, guys. I I don't know if we can do the show, bro. I'm sorry. I know it sucks. It looks bad, but the entire building wall power the entire freaking building. It's not just me. I mean, I have my hotspot, but my hotspot is not going to be My hotspot's not going to be the best. This is definitely not going to be the best. It's not raining that much outside. I don't know why it would be a noraster thing, though. Yeah, guys. I I think we I think do it anyway. I don't think it's going to work, bro. The I mean, I can stay on as long as I think the hotspot holds up, but I don't think the hotspot's going to hold up. It's an audio show. You can't even see the video. Hold on. Let me Let me go up to it. Oh, yeah. Yeah, the video's so crappy. That sucks. That maybe without video. No, but it's not worth it. If I share my screen right here, can you Let's see how it looks. Dude, that's so weird, bro. Why is it Why is the building acting like that? Market S&P is still up a little bit right here. Yeah, guys. I don't know. I don't I don't think it I mean, if I go through with it, it's probably just going to crash in the middle because I do not have a good hot spot here. I've tried my hot hot spot before and it sucks. Oh, hold on. I think power just came back. I think power just came back. My Yep. No, I think it just came back. I think I think we get to do it. My laptop's charging. That means power likely came back. I think Yep, we got it, baby. We got it. There we go. There we go. Okay, cool. Well, that's a uh that's a first on the show. Let's Yep, there we go. All right, so let me do it right in time. Okay, let me switch back to my regular Wi-Fi and then it'll it'll be flat for a second. Dude, that's wild. Two minutes right before we did it, Joe. I don't even know. Okay, the Wi-Fi should be back in a second and then we'll switch on to a better Wi-Fi. We do have one minute. Dude, I paid my freaking deducted. So that's wild though, bro. Let's see. Okay, Wi-Fi is coming back right before we open. Give it a second. Let pull this up. We're going to connect in a minute. It's coming back. Coming back. Coming back. Give it two seconds. um should be coming in a second. A couple of them are loading. Once this loads up, I think we're be going to be okay. We got the market open and yeah, my wife on my phone is just coming back. Okay, there it is. Let's see. So random, bro. So freaking random. Okay, it's back on my phone. Not back on my computer yet. So, I still probably look like a potato. But are we going to get a market open in a second? Are we going to get a Oh, there it is. There it is. Okay, give it one second. It's about to go black for a second. There we go. All right, we're back. The stock market is now open. All right, folks. Let's get into it and wake your ass up. Here we go. Uh S&P 666. That's up about 1.61%. We are green on the day for the S&P. That's down a little bit from the pre-market, but we are still green. S&P that is up grabby grab 3%. Not too bad. breaking through above that $6 range. 611 right there at 3.38% on grab. We are green for that. AMD 222 that is also green. That's up about 2.08%. Nvidia that's up 2% on the day. Tesla that goes 2%. We are pretty much green across the board. Reddit's up 3%. Amazon's up half a percent. Meta's green. Salesforce is green. PayPal's up. ELF is up. Apple's up. SMCI is up 3%. Unfortunately, Bitmine is slightly down. Ethereum's down. Actually, BitMine's down from the pre-market, but it's still up 1.6%. Oaklo, how's that doing? Oaklow. Wow. 7% on an Oaklow. That one continues to move higher. Look at that. 188. It's going for 200. It is eventually going for 200, but that one right there is green. I ran. Is it past 74? I ran 7267. So, down from 74, but that's still up about 4.5% on the day. Just below that 73 level. It looks like that one wants to break through to 75. Nvidia, that's up 1.8%. SoFi, that's up 2%. Grab right there up 2.7. Amazon basically flat on the day. Robin Hood up 2% 13780 and then pounder 18265. Pounder is also green. Archer is that moving today. Archer wow 1419 must be some catalyst right there that's getting the street excited about Archer up 9% on the day. We'll see what the catalyst looks like in a second as I pull that up. But Archer right there is also green and you are getting some momentum on that. That's up 9.5%. Where is Nebius? Nebius right here 131 that's up 2% on the day. Um Richtech Robotics RR that one also goes green 3% trying to break through $7 hit up seven for a second. BMR back down to 5303 potentially going below 53. So you got a red candle right there potentially getting some shares that are being dumped as that one is going down. Archer announced it will acquire a Liam's portfolio of 300 air mobility patent assets for $18 million euros. The assets cover high voltage systems, battery management, and aircraft design. All right, so Lilium, which already went bankrupt a while ago, looks like Archer is going to be acquiring a big part of their business, and that's why that stock is up 10% on the day. I mean, it makes sense Archer is getting another asset from a company that is a competitor to them or was a competitor to them. Um, it doesn't necessarily mean that Archer has earnings or revenue yet, but it does mean they get a lot closer to that by value by, you know, acquiring some pretty strong intellectual property and some patents right there. So, that's why Archer is getting the boost. IWM that's up 1%. Walmart that's up 1%. VIX is down 6.3. Nice to see VIX taking a hit from that $21 level that it was at yesterday. SoFi, look at that 29. Finally getting back above 29. That one probably wants to get into the 30s once again. It will be nice to see it get there. ASML right now, 125. That's up 4.3%. S&P still up about 1% 66703. Robin trying to get back to 40 or 140. And then pounder, look at that. Pounder 2.23. 23. There's a lot of option flow next week for the 190 call on Palanteer. Uh we have earnings on November 3rd that was announced a couple days ago. I do think if they have a 50% quarter, you know, 190 is very possible to break through. But you do have a bunch of people betting on 190 for uh Pounder. APLD, that stock is up 5.7% on the day. How about AS? Are we still at 99? 9819. Looks like this bad boy really does want 100. And then Rocklab back above 71. 7153 is green. Now, Morgan Stanley, for those that are just joining, absolutely destroyed earnings. Look at that. They deserve 6%. They beat EPS by 35%. You just don't tend to do that if you're a bank, unless you're SoFi. Uh Morgan Stanley doing incredible. That's up 6.4%. They also beat on revenue by about a billion and a half. And Bank of America, that's up another four and a half percent because they beat on the top and the bottom as well. So, you're getting the banks, whether it's City, Black Rockck, Wells Fargo, etc. doing their thing. AMD right there 225. AMD hit 240 last week. It's nice to see it hold above the 220s right here. A dip to the low 200s is I think where dip buyers get excited. 180s is where people really get excited. I don't know if you're going to get that. Don't know if you're going to get that after that opening ideal. That one might continue to allow it to go higher. Oaklo 186 that's up 6.82. SMR that's up 6.8%. And then Nanuclear that is up 5% as well on the day. AMKR are we getting a little bit of a run there? 30.84 84. That's up 3% on the day. By the way, we will have another Twitter spaces today uh with uh Stock Talk uh for Equity Edge, the new like audio show that we do every Wednesday. Uh ENS is the ticker. ENS is the ticker. I do not have a position in this ticker. Uh he does, but ENS is an energy company specifically in battery and battery production and energy storage. So, we'll be talking about this one today. Another small cap in the energy space. A lot of those are getting a lot of attention. So, we'll be deep diving on ENS today. Robinet right there, that's up 2%. Pounder up 2%. Grab 606, that's up 2.04. SoFi 2.48. And then AMD up 3%. ASML again, decent. Oh, that's the last thing we were talking about before the power went out. Uh, what I was going to say is management basically said we don't expect a significant decline of revenue in 2026, but they also didn't say we expect a significant acceleration in revenue in 2026. So ASML I don't think is the best way to gauge the overall semiconductor ecosystem for a demand. There's a lot of other ways to gauge it, but they, you know, I think they would be up a lot more if they increase their forecast and they had a little bit more of a defensive tone on the earnings call around the concept of like revenue beats, but you know, stock still had a pretty good earnings and that's why that stock's up 3.4%. They also bought back a ton of shares at 650 euros. You know, stocks way above that right now. So they did a really good buyback about four months ago. Wow. Rocket Lab 72 72 on Rocket Lab. Not bad. 7350 was the all-time high. So, you're getting some love on Rocket Lab for today. LEU, Centric Energy, that one also goes green 433. That's up 9.4% on the day. And then Bit Farms, this was 650. This is now 633. That's still up about 7.3%. as we get into this market open. Nvidia still up by about 1.63. Nvidia did get upgraded again by HSBC to 320. Massive street high price target compared to Caner at 300. They upgraded then from 200 to 320 as well. So it was a pretty large uh upgrade, but that stock losing a little bit of its pre-market action now down or now up only 1.5%. Now again, the soybean comment was the thing that I think a lot of us thought might affect the market today. The market seems to not care. It seems like soybeans were a thing of 12 hours in the after hours yesterday. It definitely wasn't the best to see that, but you're not getting that much excitement or momentum on soybeans. I mean, it's almost like the market's ignoring it and the market's like, you know what, Trump, if you want to get into a fight about soybeans, be our guest. But we're not going to take it seriously. Which is also nice to see. SM or SMR, that's up 10% again on that Janis program that the army talked about today with nuclear energy. That's what's creating a catalyst for all the nuclear stocks. How about rare earths? US AR, wow, down 10%. Is MP down 10% as well? MP is down 4%. All right, so rare earths are taking a little bit of a breather today. TMQ, that one's also down 10%. Um, what are the other ones? The There was another one that was not TAC. TAC is up 2.6, but there was another rare earth. Oh, CRML. How about that one? That's also down 14%. Wow. the rare earths. I don't think there's a headline. I think they kind of people just woke up and took some profits right here. But all of them getting hit across the board by double digits. SLNH is that one also getting hit. That's up well that's up 32%. That's more of a data center play. That's going green. Roblox is up 5%. And LAC, how about Lithium America's? That one is up about 1%. All right, so the rare earths are taking a bit of a breather. Energy still holding strong. Crypto names doing okay. Circle's up 1.6%. Palo Alto's up a little bit in the cyber security space. Micro Strategy is flat. Micro Strategy a dollar away from going below 300o. Unfortunately, MSTR has just been a disaster all year. I mean, there's no way to slice it. MSTR has sucked all year. And if Bitcoin doesn't make a move in the next two months, it'll probably continue to be stuck. But maybe Bitcoin makes that move. Bitcoin right there below 112 and Ethereum below 4100. Is Oakllo 190? Oaklow is now 191. 100 191. The pair trade of the day. Long soybeans, short rare earths. Exactly. Is there a way to trade soybeans? Are there soybean futures? Is there something to navigate the soybeans or no? There's got to be some proxy play to get there. ESTs 9740. Hims up 2%. Then Uber up 2% as well. Uh I ran. Dude, what if I had a power shortage because we have data centers in New Jersey that are taking up all the power? Could that be the reason? That would be a bullish reason, though, right? That'd be like, all right, there's more AI demand. I'll have to take one for the team. But, um, no, in all seriousness, that that is kind of crazy that we had the power outage. And I don't think it's a noraster, but who knows? Maybe it's because the data centers. I ran right there. 7196 down from 75, but still up 3%. Oaklo breaking through 192. Quite incredible that Oakllo's making this move. I mean, oh, let me check the short float on Oakllo. I think it's closer to 20%. If it is, and they announce any deal, 14.7%. I mean, if if if when you got that type of short float and they were to announce a potential billion dollar contract with the Department of Energy, this thing's probably blasting through 200. And I think that's what a lot of people are expecting them to do. But, you know, will they do that is the question. Dell right there, that's up 2.8%. 8% as well on on the day. Um, so SB is that actually No, wait. That Holy crap. That's a That's a real thing. A soybean fund. This is a real thing. SOB. Year to date, it's flat. Wow. It's a legit soybean fund. I did not know that was a thing. soybean ETF. There you go. Oh my goodness. It's a futures contract. All right. Well, there you go. Yeah, we need the 10x leverage on soybeans. That's what we actually need. Overall, folks, this is nice to see. S&P 500 again, up about 1% right here. We were at 673 on Friday, fell all the way down to 647. We're back to 667. I don't think anyone can be mad with the bit of a Vshape that we've done over the past three days. And it goes to show the resilience in this market. You saw that stat yesterday. 108 million option contracts were traded the day of the Trump China uh meltdown which was last Friday. 61 million out of that 108 million were call options. So people double down during the uh the draw down and people bought more and as a result you're seeing that action as we get more momentum. Quantum continues to run. QBTS wow up another 5% on the day. You've got a lot of people on Twitter, at least the chatter that I'm seeing, asking when do they short Quantum, when do they, you know, buy puts on Quantum. I don't know the answer to that question. And I don't even know if it's worth taking the risk. As a hedge, I think sure, because as a hedge, you want to go short or buy puts on something that is speculative and if it, you know, if the market goes down, that likely goes down. But dude, we had a 3% draw down on Friday and the best hedge was like Nvidia puts. It wasn't even quantum puts. Like quantum and nuclear didn't even get hit that bad on the first 3% draw down we had in seven months. So it's like is it even a good hedge? I mean like I don't know. These stocks have taken a life of their own. Their narratives have taken a life of their own. And it it's hard to imagine that the narratives die overnight. But do they die eventually? Maybe. Maybe not. But if they do die eventually, are you going to be right on the timing of the short if that takes place? Open door right there. That's also down about 1.68% on the day. The IV is too high for quantum puts. Not worth it. That's another thing. And the premiums are pretty damn high because you got a lot of people bidding for those puts, which means your riskreward might not be the best. Meta right there, 720 getting back into that 720 level. This fell to 690 a couple of days ago. And then the S&P still holding 667. Uh Sam Alman announced yesterday that ChatgBT is working on let's just call it adult features and uh they will be beginning to implement that towards the bottom half of 2026. I was quite surprised when I saw him publicly tweet that they are working on you guys know what I'm talking about adult features of chat GBT because I mean it goes to show you know some of the most visited websites on the planet are some of those adult websites and the fact that chat GBT is saying we think this is a vertical that we want to use our precious GPUs from AMD and Nvidia and Broadcom to focus on it's quite incredible. I mean, I really didn't think they would go down that route, but it just goes to show how much Sam Alman believes that chatbt or AI in general will overtake every element of the internet, including social. They're, you know, they launched the Tik Tok competitor, which by the way is the fastest growing app to a million users. It took four days. So, I mean, it's growing like crazy. It's still number one on the app store and it looks like more and more verticals is what they're going to be what they're going to be attacking which is not really going to help the reproduction problem and population issue that we're having globally but nonetheless that's another use case for AI. So that's what you got there. Tesla right there 431 Nvidia continuing to go green. Uh this is what Basen said today when he was asked about the government shutdown. We are still in I think today is day 14 of the government shutdown. Here is what Bent had to say this morning when asked about how long it will continue to last. I mean, is that how this ends? It's we're on day 15 and it doesn't look like there's any sign of a deal. Well, there there's there's a thought out there that they're at least waiting to this crazy no kings rally this weekend, which is going to be the the farthest left, the hardest core, uh the most unhinged in the Democratic party, which is, you know, a big title. And you know, no kings equal no paychecks. Uh we are paying our military today. Uh the Pentagon went into uh surplus funds and will be able to make paychecks. And you know, I I think the the other problem now is uh you know, the mainstream media. If this were Republicans who' shut down the government, there would have been screaming. There would have been examples of things going wrong. But because it's the Democrats, they're complicit. And like like I said, if moderate Republican senators come across the aisle, they will be heroes. They need to break away from the hive from this radicalism. Chuck Schumer and Aake Jeff, they call them two guys from Brooklyn who are completely detached from America. You know, we are hostage to Senator Schumer's poll numbers. So again, Bent basically doing the blame against Democrats, Democrats blaming Republicans. I mean, it doesn't look like there is an end in sight for the blame game that they're playing, but nonetheless, that's what they're doing. Khi is estimating there's a 30% chance, by the way, S&P 500 new highs of the day, 66,750 for a shutdown that will last till November 16th, which would be the longest shutdown that we've seen. Oh, we got a red candle right there on the S&P. You guys see that? Oh, that came out of nowhere. Let's see if that's fake or if that's real. You guys see that, right? That just popped right in there. just went down almost a buck right there. Uh but they're estimating a 30% chance that that that uh there will be a shutdown till November 16th, which would be one of the longest shutdowns we've had in history. So, we're going to see if that ends up happening, but it doesn't look like it's ending anytime soon. Looks like that was a fake one. Looks like that there's tons of fake candles throughout the day. Sometimes you would see some of these other stocks get hit with the same red candle if the S&P got hit with it. That could have been a b a bunch of ghost orders just going right through. But S&P still holding 66722 up 1% uh on the day. Trump I don't think tweeted this morning. Again the soybean thing that was the big news yesterday. Looks like markets have kind of moved on from it. Nvidia though is losing any of the momentum it had in the pre-markets. Again, Nvidia and Black Rockck today partnered to acquire uh a company uh worth 40 billion specifically working on Texas data centers. Nvidia is not spending all 40 billion. They're partnering with a bunch of financial institutions including BlackRock and the Abu Dhabi MGPX fund, but uh they are continuing to invest in more data centers. And Cororeweave is partnering with a AI startup to partner with Texas AI to or to build Texas AI data centers. Corey right here still down from the pre-markets but up 2.67% on the day. So you still have tons of data center news that's not really slowing down and that continues to be the bullcase for all these other smaller companies that are winning. Ian is 70. That's losing its pre-market move, but still up 2%. Bit farms was up seven. Bit farms is now up two. That's potentially about to lose $6. CleanSpark was at 21. Clean Spark's now at 22. So, Clean Spark's doing okay. Terowolf is at 15. That's up 1%. Is Olo still moving? Ollo is 185, down from 193, but got all the way up to 193. And then Cipher was at 22. Cipher's at 20. That's down from 22. Okay, the rare earths. Why do you guys think they're falling? Is this just a hey, they were running like crazy. They needed a breather. Or is there something more fundamental? I don't think there's something fundamental just given the fact that, you know, we need a lot of rare earth metals. But USA rare earths, that's down 15. MP is down seven. TMQ is down 14. My goodness. And then CRML is down 18. Holy guacamole. That's not just a breather, bro. That's like a That's a That's a oneif chop. 20% chop across the board. S&P did lose 667. So that red candle is continuing. I don't see any headline, but you are seeing more red candles across the board. Google got a red candle. So got a red candle from 29. Nvidia basically losing most of its pre-market move and that one's going down. ETH below 4K. Okay, so crypto is getting hit a little bit. Well, it's not below 4K yet. It's got very close though. I don't see a Trump post. I don't think there's a Trump post. Now, remember the like one of the reasons I was pretty surprised that the pre-markets were green is because the soybean thing, look, is it the biggest deal in the world? No. But it is a reescalation of uh of of China tensions and the market kind of just forgot about it as soon as we got into the pre-markets, which was a bit surprising for me because they were so upset about anything that had to do with China on Friday. So, I don't know. All I'm saying is it's kind of weird that the market doesn't care about soybeans 12 hours later. It's not like it's un it's unexplainable why they don't care about it anymore, but they kind of scoffed it off. And maybe you're getting some red candles because they don't scoff it off anymore. We're gonna have to see. Bent's live on Bloomberg. Okay, hold on. Let me see if we can get Bent in a second. Oh, it's Bent talking right now. Ah, he just said some China [__] Okay, let me see if I can get the live feed in a second. Bent, we see with this Chinese provoc provocative why it's important to have Trump to have emergency. Okay, so he's talking about China. Let me see if I can get the feed. Give me one second. China provoking likely is the headline right here and that's what's causing some of this pain. Um, let's pull this up. Uh, one second guys. The feed is not loading exactly here yet. Yeah, it's got to be Bent. It's got to be Mr. Bent. Okay, he's on Bloomberg. I gota sit through an ad. Give it 20 seconds. It'll sit through an ad and it'll be there. Um, back to 667 on the S&P. HUT is uh Eric Jackson's new stock. He said it can uh go to 500 billion in market cap yesterday. HUD 8 Mining, that Bitcoin miner. Yesterday he tweeted that Hut will be a $500 billion market cap in a couple years. So that is his new uh 100x bagger that he is going for. So that's what we got. Okay, hold on. Bent's not on Bloomberg. He's not on Bloomberg. Okay, I don't think there's maybe there's not a live feed of Bent right here. I mean, we had him at the CNBC conference, but I don't think he's live on Bloomberg. Let's go to him right here and see if we can get anything more from what was happening with China. We're going to be speaking with our European allies, with Australia, with Canada, with India and the Asian democracies. And we're going to have a wholesome group uh response to this because bureaucrats in China cannot manage the supply chain or the manufacturing process for the rest of the world. What is a fullsum response? What does that mean? Uh we we have uh lot lots of levers. Okay, this is the feed where he's live on right now. This is the feed that's causing some of the comments right here uh to to manage the flow of information uh rule of law with respect to political opponents in Brazil. And so of the ter we have a 20% fentanol tariff on China and again they have all but admitted that they sell the precursor drugs. When we have the discussion, they take off the tariff and then we can fix it. We say fix it and show us six months of persistent persistence and then we will take off the tariff. So again, back to the IEPA, if 100,000 200,000 Americans being killed every year by fentanyl, families ruined is not an emergency. I'm not sure what is. And and by the way, if the Chinese can cut off rare earths and export control them, they certainly can control the precursors for fentanyl as well. Very quickly, very quickly, when the history of this time is written, um, and historians are paying attention to President Trump's decision-m surrounding the global tariff program that he has initiated. Can you tell us to your knowledge when it was whether it was during the campaign or the Oh, I I think the decision was taken in the first term and you would have seen President Trump saying that over the past the since January 20th that he would have he had a very successful tariff program on China in terms of rebalancing in terms of purchases that they were supposed to make which they haven't followed up on. But you could you heard President Trump say that in his in his final year, the trade deal was reached with China on January 20th. He was going to expand the tariffs to the world. And then COVID hit and out of humanitarian necessity. It would not have been appropriate to start putting on tariffs during a period of such great economic disruption. Okay. So, I mean, not that many crazy comments by Bent. Whatever he is saying is getting AMD to get a boost right here. I don't see the headline, folks. I just see AMD moving above 230, which is pretty incredible. I mean, they got a couple price target upgrades today, but that was news that was in the pre-markets. I guess that's being factored in right now. S&P trying to go for 668. Um, I guess Basen had some comments about China being a little bit more aggressive and the market that that that red candle we saw across the board. Again, they care for a second and then they didn't care. I mean, this market continues to be pretty resilient. The exact quote from Bent was Chinese officials said that China will cause global chaos if port shipping fees go through and if China wants to be an unreliable partner for the world, we need to decouple. Those are not necessarily the most bullish statements, but none but I think Algo just heard those and just randomly sold off stocks. Not randomly, but they sold off stocks because, you know, they interpreted betense words as China bad stock market go down, which is kind of how these algos work sometimes. But it's not like people care that much about those words. S&P 668, AMD, WOW 231. I mean, he didn't say anything that aggressive where you would think it's escalating to such a degree, but whatever he said was enough to give us some red candles and the market is overlooking that or people are coming in and buying the dip. AMD right here 232 almost. Tesla is up 1%. Yeah, the sentiment analysis probably on what he was saying ended up being bearish which caused a little bit of a sell-off. It might continue to cause some pain, but whatever selloff is happening is getting eaten up really quickly. Look at Na'vi 17% on the day. 17% on the day. AMD has nothing to do with BENT. This one just looks like that price target upgrade is taking it higher. It got a 280 price target by by Wedbush and uh it got a 310 price target by um by HSBC. HSBC gave Nvidia 320, AMD 310. So I guess both of those together are helping AMD. Symbotic, that stock is up 6% as well. 7858. That's a robotics company. So five right there. Trying to get back to 29. Where's gold? We didn't check gold yet. Gold is at Wow. 4,200. When did gold get to 4,200? Oh my. Silver is at 51. Goodness gracious, bro. Commodities not slowing down. Commodities not slowing down. S&P 668. We didn't get to talk about what JP said yesterday. We'll talk about that in a second. I was going to talk about it right before the power went out, but uh I think the reason gold is going up is likely because of what JPAL said yesterday and probably why the S&P is going up as well and maybe ignoring some of the soybean stuff. JPAL was pretty damn dovish on the idea of uh not engaging in quantitative tightening as much as they were in the past and that could be a signal to the markets to go higher. S&P on track for a 1% day, folks. We would be $3 away from all-time highs which is where we were on Friday. I mean, you had some people saying it might take a couple months to recover to all-time highs. It's been less than a week, and I don't know if we get to alltime highs, but it's not like it's completely out of the picture given this move. That's a 0.92% on the day. AMD still moving 230, down from 232, but that gets a 5% move. Um AMD right here in terms of market cap is moving about 15 billion today as that one continues to go green. Adobe, how's Adobe, Salesforce and PayPal doing? Adobe right here that's down. Salesforce even after the OpenAI partnership really hasn't made a move. That's flat on the day. And then PayPal broke 75 now back below 70. 69.45 is what you have on PayPal. VG this one fell below 9 bucks. It is 954. That's up 6%. So you got some buyers coming in next decade as well fell below six bucks yesterday. That stock 638 that's up 3.14%. Okay. So Bent said some stuff that was kind of bearish. China market seems to not care that much. Um and then in terms of the government shutdown, he continued to blame the Democrats. Markets also continue to not care that much even with the shutdown odds increasing to November 16th. I guess the story of the day is Bank of America and Morgan Stanley crush Nvidia and AMD continue to get more upgrades signaling more data center growth and the Vshape potentially continues to be in play as buyers come in. Look at I rent 7285. It dipped down to 70 right back to that 73 level. How about Energy Fuels? That stock is up 2%. Rare Earths are they still getting hit? US AR a little V-shaped still down 11%. MP uh down five, it was down 10. CRML was down 25, now it's down 14. And then TMQ was down 18. TMQ is now down 13. So you do have a bounce on a lot of those. S&P very close to 669. Very close to 669. SMR also getting a big move. Wow. 20% on new scale power. That means Oaklo should be green with it. Oaklo's up 7% trying to get back to 190. This likely is on the army headline around them instituting a program for nuclear energy. And those stories are enough to take these stocks higher. Tesla, are we making a move on Tessie? 435. Okay. uh bottomed out around 4:30 15 minutes ago. The heat map should be green today. Heat map across the board. Yeah, look at this dude. The only thing that's red. There's like seven stocks that are red and the ones that are red are barely red. Netflix barely down. Adobe barely down. Berkshire barely down. Insurance is really getting hit. Progressive, they had earnings today. I guess progressive didn't have the best earnings. That's down 7%. Everything else is green. Everything else is green. And applied digital continues to surge higher 39.26. They have a big deal with Core Wee. Had a great earnings. That stock making a move. SoFi 15 cents away from going back to 29. Ethereum's down. Oh, we got a Fed president on CNBC. Okay, let's He might be saying some things that are good. Remember Moran, Stephen Moran, he's a dove. So, whatever he's saying is probably part of the reason why we're getting a little bit of love right here in the markets. quickly we get to neutral, right? And so I wanted to get to neutral relatively quickly. I think a lot of other people have us getting to neutral also, but just maybe a little bit more slowly. And part of that difference, right, on the fact that I want to get there more quickly than others is because I'm less con I'm less concerned about upside inflation in the near future, which then gives us the flexibility and the freedom to get there, I think I think more quickly. What is neutral and and how do you know what that level should be? Yeah. So that's a that's a that's a a great question. Um I think we have to acknowledge that these mod so you can't observe neutral, right? The neutral policy rate is the rate at which monetary policy is neither restrictive nor accommodary. It's uh you're not on the you're not slamming the gas, you're not slamming the brakes. You're sort of just coasting along. And if you're below neutral, you're stimulating the economy. If you're above neutral, you're restricting the economy, you're holding it back. And I think it's important for us to understand that the models that estimate neutral tend to give us wide confidence bands. So there is some difficulty in knowing exactly where neutral is at any moment in time. However, I think it's a little bit easier to think about arguing from arguing from changes to neutral. And bro, he's using a lot of academic mumbo jumbo. Basically, he's saying he's cutting rates. I mean, goodness gracious, the amount of intellectualizing this guy is doing. He's basically saying, "We need to cut rates, and that's why the markets are getting some love right here." Look at the S&P on its way to 669. IWM small caps hitting all-time highs. Look at that. 252 on the small caps. That is green. Yeah. Basically, what he's saying can be summed up in one word. Calls. Calls. That's what he's saying. SoFi right there below 29 just below 5 cents away. Google almost back to 250. Haven't seen 250 in like two weeks. Google trying to get back up there. Pounder 1.62%. Hoodie 2.2. Nvidia 1.8. And then Tesla trying to break back to 435. Now Ethereum and Bitcoin not really making that big of a move with it. So those are lagging a bit. BMR right here at 5345. That's still up 1%. But you got enough of Moran's comments to resonate with the market right here. SMCI up 2.4. There you go. S&P up 1% of the day. Wow. Was down 3% on Friday, recovered 1.5% on Monday, went down 1.5% on Tuesday, recovered 1.2 of that 1.5% by the end of the day. It would have been the entire 1.5% without the soybeans tweet. And now is back up 1%. I mean, the Bulls are in control right here. Right now, it feels like the bulls have a little bit more control as they continue to run up on some of this momentum. Apple, by the way, they announced a bunch of new things with the M5 chip for the iPad and the MacBook Pro. That that's why that's going green. 251. You're seeing some of that excitement there. Uh, Bassen says, "We are in the third inning of a tech investment boom. Good chance we see 1990s like productivity miracle. Employment boom always follows a capital spending boom." That comment also is probably outweighing his China comments because the market's like, "All right, whatever is going to happen with China is temporary. There will be a conclusion to these soybeans and cooking oil issues. But what is structural is a productivity enhancement potentially like we haven't seen in over 30 years. And that likely means you end up buying stocks." Now, what did JPAL say yesterday? Because JPAL said some things that were pretty damn bullish. I'm going to play the clip right here. But essentially, he is ready to basically get back to quantitative easing. This framework has proved resilient whether the balance sheet is shrinking or growing. Since June 2022, we've reduced the size of our balance sheet by 2.2 trillion from 35% to just under 22% of GDP while maintaining effective interest rate control. Our long-stated plan is to stop balance sheet runoff when reserves are somewhat above the level we judge consistent with ample reserves conditions. We may approach that point in coming months and we are closely monitoring a wide range of indicators to inform this decision. So, so his plan is to stop the runoff off the balance sheet aka quantitative tightening. Stop selling off assets on the balance sheet. uh that doesn't mean they're buying assets yet, which would be quantitative easing, but it definitely means they're getting closer to stopping quantitative tending. And then the last sentence he says is in the next few months that when he said next few months, you know, we're talking about alos and how they react to certain words like China, soybeans, etc. Yesterday, I think this was around 2:30 p.m. you had a spike across the board. You had a spike across the market when the ALOS heard in the next few months you might stop quantitative tightening. And that quite frankly feels a lot more bullish than any of the China narratives because at the end of the day if you have rates coming down and you have less quantitative tightening and potentially you get into quantitative easing assets go up. Could that create an asset bubble? Probably. And we'll deal with that when we get there. But in the short term, I think you got to be leveraged long or at least net long in a situation like that because you're probably going to have a lot of money come off the sidelines and you're going to have a lot more liquidity in the system. Look at the S&P 50 cents away from breaking 670. 50 cents away from breaking 670. Tesla right there 43520. SoFi, are we above 29? We are at 28.95. Trying to break through above that 29. Google right here trying to finally break above 250. It's been a minute since we got back up there. It is trying. AMX, I do not know about this stock. Ampress Technologies, that's up 20% on the day. development manufacturing of market lithium ion batteries for mobility applications including aviation EVs and light EV industries okay $2 billion market cap another EV company 105 million shares outstanding or another battery company for EVs so batteries in general that's uh your narrative battery and um energy and then lithium we saw what happened with LAC a couple weeks ago that stock right they're up 20.4% 4%. They had to get some type of deal this morning that's getting the street excited. I don't think they were up like that in the pre-market. So, whatever deal they got today. Oh, looks like they partnered with an EVA company. Yeah, this morning they got they got partnered it looks like with an Evo company and that's what's getting this stock to get some momentum. There you go. 20% on the day. Again, those in the energy space, if they're getting any level of deal flow, they are getting a move. ELF right there, that's up 3%. Apple's up 1.2. SMCI is up 2.7. Amazon continues to be a dud. Amazon continues to be flat. 217. Again, I think the catalyst for Amazon is earnings, but you know, to me, if it's a dud, it's safe and you're probably getting a little bit more of an opportunity right here. But nonetheless, it's not going to move like an Oaklow. It's not going to move like an archer. If you're getting into Amazon expecting those moves, you're going to be sorely disappointed. If you're getting into Amazon for a long-term, you know, 5 10 year compounder, that's different. But Amazon basically flat on the day 21720. S&P 3 cents away from 670. Look at that. 3 cents away. Let's see if we get there. 669.996. Are we going to get there? There we go. 670. Wow. 673 to 647. Back to 670 in 5 days. Back to 670 in 5 days. And then so back above 29 2904 all on the day. Look, not bad. Not bad. Bulls are continuing to control some of this momentum right here. I mean, again, if you were a bear on Friday, the China stuff has just not been enough to get super upset. And then JPAL saying he's going to stop quantitative tightening with with Moran basically confirming that rates are going to come down. Let's get back to him. But it is really hard to get that bearish when they're basically telling you exactly what they're going to do. And so to me, while I think it's important to be humble about knowing exactly where neutral is at any moment in time, I think it's easier to say that we know some of the drivers of neutral and we can sort of observe what happened to those drivers. You said that we're that you are still very restrictive on rates, which is also kind of a a point for debate because the economy is doing very well. So where do you see it being very restrictive? Well, the economy was weaker in the first half of the year versus where it had been last year. That was trade, wasn't it? Imports and exports, stocking up before the tariffs. Uh, well, it was potentially related to trade. It was related it was related to to trade to to some front running of tariffs. It was related to some uh uncertainty around around trade and taxes I mentioned before. Um but I do think other elements of core underlying domestic demand were weaker in the first half of the year than they had been than they had been than they had been in last year. Uh thus far for the third quarter you know we have very little data uh to give us indications for the third quarter. Um but I also think that the labor market has clearly has clearly weakened uh somewhat over the course of the year and the unemployment rate has ticked up um has has been moving up gradually in in in the recent past. So, you know, I don't And then you sort of look at something like the housing market, right? And and and housing is is is one of the biggest, if not the the biggest transmission channel from of monetary policy into the real economy. And that has been, you know, I think rather rather morbunded for for a while now on high on high rates, mortgage rates, uh largely on high rates. Yeah. But if the Fed lowers rates, it's not guaranteed that mortgage rates will come down. We didn't see that last year. So, that's a great that's a great point. Um, and so, you know, last year, uh, I thought that cutting was the wrong move, right? And it's related to this neutral rate conversation we were just having. So, I thought last year the neutral rate was much higher due to a variety of factors including things like population growth being higher, including things like deficits being wider, um, that raised the neutral rate. Um, which means that if neutral was here, so if you keep policy here and neutral's up here, then I think that policy is not very restrictive. And so, I thought that cutting last year wasn't necessarily the right move. If neutral has come down and you keep policy here then the different the the distance between them has grown and so therefore policy became more restrictive even though you kept the nominal rate relatively similar and so that in my mind is is reasons for cutting and so that's why I thought last year it was a mistake to cut and this year it's the right move to cut and the market told you that and you think this year market will go along exactly so in the I think eight 18 trading sessions since we cut rates so in September uh long yields are I think like four or five basis points down. All right. So again, this guy's uh he definitely takes a lot of words to kind of make the overall point, but at its core, he's saying we need to cut rates. I mean, that's what we get from that. And I don't think JPL disagrees with him. I don't think Michelle Bowman yesterday, who reaffirmed her target for two more rate cuts by the end of the year, disagrees. I don't think Christopher Waller, who this morning said, "Hey, the labor market's getting a little iffy." And you know, he's been saying that for the past couple months. You've got plenty of doves on the Fed. The question is how uh much is the cycle going to continue. Uh Paul Tudtor Jones yesterday said that the neutral rate might be two and a half%. By the end of next year, which if that's the case, I mean, we're not at 2021 levels in terms of the the the rates, you know, that at 2021 it was basically at zero, but we are getting pretty close. We are getting dramatically closer than where we were in 2022. And you would imagine that risk on assets would catch a bid. Right? Right there. That's up 2.2%. Amazon 216, Meta that's up 1.9, AL 2.2. And the ironic thing is the fear is like, okay, let's say rates go down to two and a half percent. 26 um and you have a massive inflation bubble, right? You just have an acid bubble and then inflation, you know, ramps up like crazy because rates are so low. What if AI ends up becoming extremely deflationary? Not only because the labor market weakens because AI commoditizes jobs, but sort of Elon's vision, which is that the cost of goods dramatically decreases and there's this kind of age of abundance that everyone can afford everything because things go down so much because of the enhanced productivity. I mean, that might put to rest the concerns of low interest rates would cause massive inflation. And so, you've got a lot of different tailwinds that are intersecting with each other, but I think the solution ends up being net long something other than cash. And that's probably why gold is hitting that 4200 level. Silver at 5270 as we continue to see that cash might not be the best spot to be in. Um, so there you go. You got some green right there across the board based on those comments. Google, are we back to 250? Google, very close. 249.85. It touched it today. 24950. Grab at 609. Reddit at 292. Rocket Lab still holding 7250. That is also green. Archer again based on the acquisition of those Lilium uh assets. Looks like Archer is getting a bid right there. That's up 7.3%. Hims, where is Hims today? Is that at 57? That's at 56.81 just below 57. Irene, are we at 75? IN is at 73. got to 75 in the pre-markets right now at 73. Amcor is running a little bit. Yeah, you got Amcore at 30.82. It's getting a little bit of love again. Amcore to me. Oh, one thing I found out about Amcore yesterday. This is uh I was texting with Stock Talk and he told me this. Um Amcor won the best supplier award from Broadcom back in 2024. So, you know, when we're talking about a semiconductor packaging company that trades at a very reasonable multiple on a price of sales on a PE basis and that is undergoing a rerating if they can reshore manufacturing in the semiconductor fabs in the United States, which is what Trump is focused on, Jensen is focused on, Tim Cook is focused on. um and working closely with TSM. It's just another point of due diligence on this is probably one of the more legit American companies working specifically on semiconductor manufacturing or packaging. And uh you know I think I think at these multiples it's pretty cheap and it's only up 17% this year but they're going to need a good earnings to kind of rerate and it might take a couple earnings to get there. It's just if you believe in all this AI capex demand, the question is where is it going? And if TSM is any indicator of how much demand there is, I think AMC probably is a beneficiary. TMT right there, that's up 2.6% on the day. BMR, are we still above 53 5370? So, all right. So, let's do a sentiment check on BMR because I think over the past couple weeks, we've been talking about this one. Uh, I know that I guess a week ago I was a little bit more bearish and I went on that rant about I see all these Twitter targets calling for 100 150 and I think it's all BS because I mean at the end of the day Ethereum has to make a move to get there and I don't really know if Ethereum makes that 10 $15,000 move that people are thinking about. But does Ethereum stay flat at 4,000 and Bitine stays flat in the 55 to 60 range towards the end of the year? Like is it one or the other? Is it 150 or is it 50 or are we somewhere in the middle? So, I mean, what what are people thinking? Do we still think BMR can make that massive move that people were calling for by the end of the year, or is this one where covered calls are going to print and you're going to be able to take a lot of money from those option buyers that think it's going to get to some egregious level and it ends up just not happening? Let's do a poll right there. BMR 100 end of year, 150 end of year, 50 end of year, which is more bearish, right? It stays flat. And then 75, which is bullish but not super bullish. I don't know, dude. If I had to guess, I would go with 75. I would go with and that that's that's being optimistic that ETH makes a move. If it doesn't or if it just stays flat, that's not bearish Ethereum. It's just, hey, ETH's not making that crazy of a move. And you know, if you're bullish tokenization of stable coins long term, that move will inevitably happen. But it might not happen in the next two months. And I think that's not crazy to imagine. Now granted, you got rate cuts coming up which is going to help, but we're going to have to see if ETH can make that move. Bitcoin right there 112. Bitcoin right there 112. Yeah, it's almost November. I mean, well, this is also what is confusing to me about Tom and I love Tom Lee. He's, you know, he's a friend of the channel, but his price target on Bitcoin and Ethereum, I I I it's hard for me to see it happening. 200 to 250 on Bitcoin and then Ethereum 10 to 12. Look, you have to have some pretty aggressive price targets when you're out there on an island making your predictions. Um, and he's done that successfully for the past 10 years, right? But like in two months to have Bitcoin make that much of a move or Ethereum's make that much of a move, I don't know, bro. I feel like that's aggressive. I feel like that's a bit aggressive. And if you've got those 60 covered calls, 65, I mean, hell, even if you have like 57 58s every week, they're printing. or I mean BMR is just a moneymaker on covered calls right now which could change but it is printing app right there 2.8% 8% applo and back above 600. Even Arthur Hayes who's another crypto OG he was on a podcast with Tom Lee two days ago and here's what he said about this cycle for crypto. This cycle is different than the la the last three. If you want to take a look at Chinese credit and US credit which leads me to say there is no four-year cycle at least right now and so we are in sort of a extended cycle whatever you want to call it new world order change in you know trade situation whatever right uh and so I am of the opinion that this cycle ends when the Trump administration ends because it'll be a reaction against Trump whether you like it or not doesn't really matter and you know that's a 2028 8 late 2027 story when the rhetoric of the opposing team blue democrats starts to cause questions in investors minds. Oh, what if they win and therefore what if things change? Therefore, I maybe should I should take some chip off the table. So Arthur Hayes, he also agrees Bitcoin 200 by the end of the year. But his argument is this cycle that theoretically is supposed to have a winter in 2026, right? Like if you look at the historical cycles, that's the four year 2026 is supposed to be a winter. His argument is the Trump administration and the level of uh optimism essentially they have around crypto is not going to let this thing end easily next year. S&P is still holding 1% on the day. Now 2028 it's a question on you know if Democrats win or Republicans win who's more supportive of crypto. One could argue the Democrats are going to have to become supportive of crypto because they're going to alienate too many people if they launch a presidential campaign that is not supportive of crypto. But the broader argument is Trump is bullish for crypto. Tesla right there 437. That one also continuing to go greed. Where is uh fear and greed? Let's see. We are at 36. We were at 29 yesterday, folks. So, you do have a pretty big move. Still in fear. Not in neutral yet. I guess neutral probably gets you to 637 or 675ish on the S&P. We were barely in neutral last week at alltime highs. Tesla at 437 making a little bit of move. By the way, Google, back to 250. Back to 250 on the Googles. It has been about a week since we were there. And before that, it has been Yeah, basically two and a half weeks. September 29th was when it was really holding 250. So, gave you a dip at 232, right back to 250.5 on Google. Yeah, we're not even in neutral. We are still in fear. We are still inferior. Yes, Arthur had the same price targets as Tom Lee. And look, I have a lot of respect for Arthur Hayes. He's a massive crypto OG. I'm just thinking, dude, we have two months left. They're calling for Bitcoin to go from 110 to 200. Dude, if that happens, Robin Hood's going to go to $200 a [__] If that Coinbase is going to be 500, but like if that I the magnitude of that move and the derivative impact it will have on a micro strategy, which is probably going to break all-time highs in the 500s if Bitcoin gets there. I just I I I don't know if we have that big of a move because the implications of that big of a move on the equity markets is gigantic. But if it happens, I wouldn't complain. It's just like it's it's pretty incredible to imagine that actually taking place. Core right there 140, Coinbase up 1.3 and then Rocket Lab that's up 6.1%. What did you guys say in the poll? Let's see right here. 50% of you say 75 end of year. Okay, that's a little bit of a sentiment shift from two weeks ago where most people were calling for 100 or at least like 85 to 100 was the target. So, you do have some people kind of saying, "All right, maybe it's not really going to make as big of a move as we thought. by the by the end of the year. Serve Robotics is that moving that one made a good move last week. Um and was getting some love. Roblox right there 1797. That continues to go green on the day. You got server. Wow. Serves of 10% on the day. 10.24 is green for serve robotics. Um, let's see if we have any more comments from Greer and Bent on this China stuff and then we'll keep going from there to get the flow of magnets to something that was barely tolerable. Right now take that program which was trying to deal with thousands of license applications and multiply it by a thousand. That's what we're talking about because we're not just talking about the rare earths themselves. We're talking about many downstream products that contain those rare earths. remember.1% if.1% of a product has a Chinese rare earth in it, it could be controlled by this and I mean the the scape the scope and the scale is just uh unimaginable and it cannot be implemented. And to follow up on that uh right now we are currently in a 90day role on the tariffs. So, is it possible that we could go to a longer role uh in return for a delay? Perhaps. But, you know, all all that's going to be uh negotiated in the coming weeks before the before the leaders meet in Korea. Thank you everybody. With apologies again. They do have to get to another. Okay. So, Bent is confirming that there will be a meeting in Korea, which is good. S&P still up 1.15. Bitcoin is lagging on the day. Bitcoin barely above 112, but um also the confirmation of the meeting in Korea likely is why the the soybean stuff might not be that big of a deal and maybe the markets are more excited about that. um NPhphase. Okay. So, again, we don't have an administration that supports solar, but you do have NPhase that is still a pretty strong solar company. They just don't have the subsidies they had back in 22. Uh not sure why they're up 8% on the day. There might be a bit of a headline, but you know, it would not surprise me if the solar names catch a bid just on the sheer demand for energy at large. The problem is, you know, if they if they don't have the support from a regulatory perspective, it might not be that easy for them to capitalize on the demand, but data centers need a lot of power and solar is not a crazy story to imagine that power. Jeff did upgrade Enface to 41. So, that could also be helping in this uh in this move right here. Yeah, solar obviously still is a a pretty important energy play. Uh where is CLA today? This one's been a little flat. CLA 3875. Not a good IPO, folks. Dude, we haven't had an IPO in a minute. What happened? Feel like it's been a month since we had an IPO, right? The last IPO we had was Fermy, which that stock is basically flat since IPO. It's up a little bit. 2.28% down today, I guess towards end of the year. I mean, where's the Discord? Where's the uh the stripes? Like we're still missing a lot of those big companies that have not gone public. Now, we have had a lot. We've had like 10x more companies this year than 2022. Google 251. We are still missing some. Amazon still flat on the day 216 21689. Where is Figma? Is that moving a bit? Figma, that's up 5%. Tesla making a move 440. We got earnings October 22nd. October 22nd for Tessie. It'll be a Wednesday after hours. We'll be live. I think Steve will join me on that one and uh we'll try to see what happens. Let's take a look at the stock draft. Matt's probably in first place still. Wow. Matt's crossed 50%. He's up 172 on Rocket Lab and 131 on AS. I'm at 42. Duolingo still in the uh in the 300s. Steve's up seven. Tanner's up 21. Chris is up 13. Matt's up 53. By the way, Palunteer earnings is on November 3rd. Grab earnings is on November 3rd. So, we're going to be streaming Palunteer earnings. I'm probably not going to get to stream Grab earnings, but I mean that November 3rd is going to be a massive day because I've got big positions of both companies. will be live for pound tier and then you know grab is later in the night we're going to see what those numbers look like and then two days later we have freaking hood on November 5th. So that first week of November get ready to strap in. It is going to be a wild wild week and SoFi is like five days before that. October 28th 28.92 on SoFi that's up 3.7% as well. So I think him is on November 3rd as well. You got a ton of companies that are SMCI's on the fourth. I mean, dude, that first week of November, that first freaking week of November is going to be massive. You also have Na'vias, Tempest on November 3rd, Vertex. I mean, you got a ton of these companies. So, it is going to be a pretty pretty big day. The Tesla shareholder stuff. Okay, so first of all, put in the chat if you have voted your Tesla shares. I still haven't done that yet because I'm lazy, but I will do it. I think the deadline is November 6th. One thing that was kind of interesting about that, which I don't know, let me know if you think it's bullish or bearish, is Tesla's advertising on Facebook to get people to vote in the meeting. And Tesla doesn't tend to even advertise their cars as much. So, the fact that they're advertising on Facebook and Instagram to get Tesla shareholders to make a vote, it's quite incredible. And it it just it just goes to show how serious this vote is and how important uh Elon is, you know, thinking of his compensation package and the ability for Tesla to invest in XAI. I mean, you have all those different amends that really do matter. So, they are advertising they want people to vote. I mean, I think, yeah, I think it's going to be a landslide. I think last time it was 7525 for the compensation pack. It was like 73 27 something like that, but it was overwhelmingly in support. I can't imagine it would be any different this time. You even had the nores bank voting against his compensation package. It was like 500 million shares or something voted against it last time and that still didn't even put a dent in the amount of support that Elon got from retail. So yeah, if you look at your brokerage, you you probably get an email from your brokerage. They they give you instructions on how to vote your shares, but you do have that as another tailwind for Tesla as well. 439 right here on Tesla. Na'vias, is that one breaking 15? Na'vias 1467. It did break 15 for a second. Rock back above 73. Look at that. 7307. And as did it cross 100? AS 9720. I mean, space continues to make a run. Hims right there up 4% as well. Uh, Amazon continues to get hit. I mean, dude, I like this on Amazon. I really do. It's It's not that upsetting to me. I mean, if you think Amazon's cheap, then this is your opportunity. This is exactly what we saw with Google, and we saw the move that Google had after that. So you either believe in it or you don't. But at its core also I mean here's a interesting stat about Amazon. Currently right now we haven't used that in a minute. We got to get back to that. Currently right now Amazon is trading at its lowest EV to Ebida multiple in history. It has never been cheaper than right now on an EV to Ebida multiple basis. This is similar to Google's forward earnings being the lowest it was at at 150 in its history. and you know that ended up being a good opportunity. So again, it's a high quality company that you're getting at a cheaper price than normal, but it's not going to be a mover like an Olo, which is still up about 7% on the day. Yeah. And it's the most diversified it's ever been. That's also true. Would you say currently right now it's a good time to buy? I mean, I'm buying. So, also, yeah, they announced some layoffs end of month. So, I mean, look, the real thing about Amazon here is like I'm not like going super, oh my goodness, this is the next big thing. This is like the this is I'm not pounding the table on Amazon by any means. I'm just saying in a market where everything's running and obviously people are getting worried about random names going up 20% in a day and I'm getting a lot of messages every day of just like the uneasiness of a feeling in this market to be able to buy a mag seven company that's trading at its lowest multiple in history that has is red year to date has not even moved green positive it just feels like a safer bet and you sacrifice the risk-to-reward upside for safety But you know in any portfolio that level of safety in that high quality of a company is is not a horrible thing. Apple right there breaking above 250 as well. 251 that's up 1.3% and that continues to go green. Isn't buying Amazon a value trap? I refuse to believe yet Amazon is a value trap. PayPal and Salesforce have turned out to be massive value traps this year. I I it's hard to say a company doing the types of numbers Amazon is doing is a value trap. The stock price is a whole different question, but you know, PayPal and Salesforce, I think, are more in that category. Now, look, if Amazon's flat all of 2026, and I mean, maybe you have an argument there. I I don't think that's going to happen, but I think you need a little bit more time before Amazon fully becomes a it's even crazy for us to imagine amin is a value trap. And that's what they said about Google, right? It's a value trap at 150. It turned out to be deep value. And maybe that's the case with Amazon. My average to Amazon is 220. 220 is my average on Amazon. Check sauna. Sauna biotech is up 20% on the day. Did someone tweet about this? Is that why it's moving? It's a biotech. Oh, boy. All right, folks. So you got your next hund bagger by Mr. Eric Jackson. There you go. Eric Jackson sauna looks like the next hund bagger. Okay. So open was the first hundred bagger. Better was the first or was the second I think 500 bagger. He thinks that's going to go to $12,000 a share. Yesterday Hutate Mining was the next hundred bagger. He thinks that's going to go to 500 billion in market cap. Now he's saying SA is the next 100 bagger. I have not done a lot of due diligence on those companies, so I can't really say if that could happen or not, but the stock is pumping 20% on a sauna biotech. I mean, this is likely because of Eric Jackson. I mean, who else would get this thing to move that much unless they had drug results today, which I don't think they did. There you go. I would just say it's hard to find hundred baggers. It's not easy. And when you're throwing them out every other day, I mean, at this point, it's two for the week. He found 200 baggers for for the week. I mean, 200 baggers for the week. I mean, Stanley Ducken Ducken Miller, Warren Buffett, the Lakman, they spend 10 years trying to find a 10 bagger. So, finding 200 baggers in two days. I mean, you got to give someone credit for being able to find that. So, there you go. But I I likely am not going to be taking the risk on sauna. But I'll look into it. In general, I don't touch biotech. He is Eric Jackson. Eric Jackson is right that XBI has been depressed this whole year. The biotech sector has been depressed. So I mean he does have the trend in the right theme that biotechs have not taken off. So likely biotechs will have if we get a a sort of broader diversified market room to take off. Is sana going to be a hund bagger in that space? I don't know. That comes down to your due diligence. Look at AMD though. 235, five bucks away from 240. And then Grabby Grab, little bit of a move right here, 4%, 614 on Grab, went to 589 yesterday. So, nice little move up higher on Grab. That's up 3%. SoFi's up 3%. AMD is up 7. Hood's up two and AMD really trying to break through potentially 240. Let me check the resistance at 236 for AMD. The NASDAQ also up almost 1% on the day. AMD 236 resistance 24,000 shares. Not a lot. It's not a lot. Intel 3670. That's also up 3%. All right. That's green. That's green. Amit, when you start your deep dives, they will be out on Friday. On Friday, we're gonna have two of them. We're gonna have two of them. I was going to leave that as a surprise, but I might as well tell you guys right now. We're gonna have two deep dives on Friday. I didn't want to do just one. I wanted to kind of start off the substack with a bang. So, it's amitsdeepdives.com. You can click on that right there and subscribe on Friday. Both of them will be out and uh we're going to start the long form research on the Substack. So, it's free to subscribe. No payw wall. There will never be a payw wall. For those that have subscribed already, thank you. But yeah, we're gonna have two deep dives. And look, I mean, the demand for these deep dives is pretty aggressive. And I'm very excited to look into a lot of these stocks. I'm still going to try to keep it to two a month because I just think to give quality quality uh deep dives, you really got to spend time with the company. But yeah, the goal will be one every two weeks and try to give my all into going deeper on a company. And I'll disclose if I buy it, if I have a position in it. Most of these I don't really want to buy. I mean, I might throw a little bit of money at it, but the goal is like, can we actually analyze the company? If I really do like it, then, you know, I'll disclose if I if I have any position, but they'll be out on Friday. Tesla right here 440. That's green up two and a half. That is up. Grab still moving. Google 251. AMD trying to brush through 235. Salesforce a little bit green. And then Meta back up to 720. back up to 720. So, we got the substack. When's the only fans? Dude, I cannot believe Sam Alman really said yesterday they're coming out with an erotica feature for chatbt. I really I would expect Elon to say that because of all the stuff he's been tweeting with rock AI. I didn't know OpenAI was going to go down that route, but I guess they realize it's the most profitable version of uh utilizing AI. And they're going for it. SMCR right there up 3%. Na'vias. Wow. 19%. There you go. Back to 15. That one continued to go green. Is your Substack free? Yes, it will always be. Dude, a bunch of you guys pledged a subs. I didn't even know Substack allows you to pledge a subscription. And a bunch of you guys pledged like like 80 bucks a year, 100 bucks a year or something. And like you really don't have to do that. I mean, this this this really is not to make money. This is to challenge myself as an investor to get better at analyzing companies. So, it will always be free, but you know, anyone who wants to subscribe can check it out. Na'vi right there up 15% still move or up 19% still moving. TTD, how's that one doing? That one's been stuck for the past couple of months now. 5146 around 45 to 56. That's been a bit more stuck. Brandon, thanks for the super chat. Where would you roll Rocket Lab 65 covered calls for 10 to 24 months to retain shares? Um, probably I mean 65 is not that far away from where you're at unless you already are in like the 2027 option chain. Wow, Rocket Lab almost 74 with 65. I mean, look, if you really don't want to lose the shares, I would roll up and out to 100, but it depends. If you're at 65 for next week, you're in a much better position to do that. If you're in 65 for next year because you rolled from like 45 or something, you're in a worse position. But look, here's the thing. I'm not an expert on Rocklab, but I think it's expensive here. I'm sorry, but I think it's pretty expensive. I don't think it has to collapse. I don't know if it's going to 100 by the end of the year. So, you have to really ask yourself, hey, on these covered calls, how comfortable are you rolling right now because you think it's running away from you, or do you think it'll take a retracement and you'll be able to get out of it later? And that depends on how convicted you are on the move on Rockl. But if you definitively want to keep the shares, I would roll out to a hundred probably another year out. But it's not just me, right? It's expensive. I mean, bro, they they do 500 million in revenue, $ 36 billion company. Like, and they're not profitable either. Like, that's not even being bearish. Rocket Lab. I own it. I'm not selling a single share. It's just like I said the same thing about Hood at 150. I'm like, look, it's expensive. I'm not I'm not I'm not saying they don't deserve to get a multiple, but obviously it is getting up there in terms of the premium. Same thing with AS, dude. I mean, look, AS has been incredible, but this guy has zero dollars in revenue. Same market cap as Rocket Lab. Now, one could argue their potential is greater, but Neutron could change everything. That is fair. I mean, look, that's why you don't sell. And I get it. I'm the guy who owns Palanteer and Palanteer's like, I get it, but I'm not selling Pounder either. So, the the argument is not necessarily around do you continue to hold something that's expensive. Do you continue to buy into it? And I think that's kind of the difference here versus also not selling or not. Strategy at 306. Micro Strategy getting a little bit of green as well. VRT, Vertive, that one moving up today 2.75%. VRT and Vista were really good stocks in 2024 when data centers just started to take off. I mean, they've still done really good in 2025. VRT right there, 52%. VST 43%. Both of those continuing to get some love. Yo, who owns Oaklo in the chat? Put in the chat if you own Oakllo. And let me do a poll on this. How many how many freaking Oakllo people do we have? I'm gonna guess it's 15%. Which maybe is too aggressive, maybe it's too conservative. 15% of you guys own Oklahoma. Feel like I'm being too aggressive there. Do you own Oaklo? Because I mean, dude, if the thing about Oaklo is I wouldn't have been able to hold. If I bought Oklahoma at 20, I would have sold at freaking 50. I would have been I would have been done. So, for those that have actually held on to this thing to 190, which I mean, I don't know how many people there are that legit held on for the full 2,000% move or even freaking 1,000% move, but it's pretty incredible for those that did. Yeah, I was right. 15% of you, 85% of you do not own Oaklow. Bradley says, "I sold at 120." Bunch of people saying I sold at 87 88. BB says I have 100 shares at 28. Why not just hold? Yeah, I agree. I mean, same thing with INE. I'm not selling INE either. It's just 100 shares. So, you know, why not just hold it if it's a small position? But goodness, some of these names have literally gone to the moon. AMD right there 234, just below 235. Yeezy said I bought at 150, sold at 180. Okay. I mean, look, from a trading perspective, it's done very well. Um, BMR continues to be stuck. Yes, it continues to be stuck. I mean, look, ET's not moving, right? So, at least it's not below 50. So, Ethereum kind of holding on to this 4,000 range. Uh, one thing about Ethereum, I forgot to show this right here, but look again, regardless of price action, the question is looking at the actual movement of the industry and take a look at stable coin supply. 300 billion for the first time just passed yesterday. 59% of that is Ethereum. So, you're starting to see a lot more companies come on chain and that's obviously creating a lot of momentum in the overall stable coin ecosystem. Good for Circle, Tether, etc. And you know, given Ethereum's share of that, that's not horrible for them either. By the way, here's what UBS said this morning on why the bull market isn't over. Number one, they said, "Resilient consumer spending. The labor market is cold, but remains solid, layoffs are low, wages are rising, and job openings are healthy. Strong AI investment. AI adoption and related spending keeps growing. UBS expects solid revenue growth for cloud providers. And number three, the Fed. The Fed is creating a favorable backdrop. UBS believes the upcoming earnings will reinforce the bull market strength based on rate cuts and earnings growth. So those are your three reasons from a lot of the investment managers. AI investments are strong, the consumer is resilient, and you got the Fed that's easing along with an earning cycle that is relatively strong. And so far the banks have proved how strong it is. And that's their case for, you know, ry we're likely to see closer to that 7,000 potentially 7200 level on the S&P. And you know, a little bit of a rebound from or a decent amount of the rebound from Friday. It definitely helps bolster some of that argument right here. Clean Spark, that's up 5%. That continues to go green 4 and a.5% on the day. Um, and AMD still well AMD losing a little bit of its juice. 235 back down to two to 233. Another argument for data centers is robotics. Here's what the ARM CEO that had a partnership with OpenAI yesterday said about why I mean he he said something that was quite surprising. He said robotics will be bigger than the entire market for data centers. So if you have robots in the field, we have 500 million robots. What is the chip market going to look like for robotics? How what makes it different than what we have today on the embedded side versus the data center side for AI infra? Yeah, physical AI is going to be a gigantic market. I mean today quite candidly they're using bigger than data centers. Uh yeah, I think so. Uh because I think they're going to today they largely use repurposed automotive chips, right? Things that have functional safety uh compliance around ADAS, but they're not specific for actuators or specific for smaller parts of the joint. So physical AI, particularly AI that can learn uh is I think going to be a giant market because the robots themselves will have tens of chips, hundreds of chips. So yeah, from a unit standpoint, it could be huge. Uh the numbers are going to be well beyond what we what we see today. You started so dude that was pretty crazy when I heard that yesterday. I mean the data center market is pretty freaking massive and the reason I ran and all these other companies are even running is because of how massive it is. Pounder by the way back up to 183. But if he's talking about physical AI is going to be a even bigger market than data centers, we're talking about another basically trillion dollar industry with hundreds of billions of dollars of capex spend by probably figure, electronic, Amazon, Tesla, all the companies that matter when it comes to robots uh continuing to increase the necessity for all this compute capacity and that ends up being you know a tailwind that is also hard to deny. I mean, Jensen's been pretty optimistic about humanoid robotics as well. He's, you know, not shied away from saying how important they are. Actually, I do have a clip of Jensen. This is from him yesterday. He was talking with Citadel about why robots continue to be the next big S-curve. Let me give you a thought experiment. You know, why robotics is so close? Um, as you know, as you know, you can now prompt an AI and it could generate uh, you know, prompt uh, Jensen picking up a bottle, uh, opening it and taking a sip. Okay. And it would generate the video of me, right, opening up a bottle, taking a sip. Well, if it can generate all that, why can't it maneuver a robot to do that? H and so you your thought experiment would suggest that you know that's probably very likely. Now if you could design a digital chauffeur that could drive a car, why can't you have a robot a physical robot drive a car? And so so if a physical robot if you can embody a physical robot to even drive a car, why can't you embody a pick and you know pick and place arm or any type of robotics? And so notice we have the ability to embody almost anything. We could pick up pick up uh knives and forks and it becomes an extension of our body and somehow we articulate it. We could pick up a baseball bat and use it as an extension of our body. Um and so we embody these physical extensions. future future AIs will be able to embody, you know, and manipulate a car um robotic arms, a human or robot, a surgical robot, um you know, so on so forth. And so so I think these two these two markets are are within reach. Again, Jensen, he's also talking his book, Nvidia is going to sell a lot of chips if physical AI ends up taking off. Um, but you know, if the market is as big as he thinks, then you're going to see a lot more chips get sold because of it. Jensen did deliver a DGX Spark chip to Sam and Greg Brockman yesterday. He delivered this to Elon a couple days ago. So, you got Jensen continuing to make the rounds. APLD, that one continues to do very well. Look at that. 3976, 13% of the day. Na'vi, that one continues to move. I think we'll have Jose on tomorrow. and he'll give us his thoughts on Na'vi, APLD, AMD, etc. But I think he owns all of those. So, it's been a pretty big two weeks for his portfolio. Na'vi, right? They're breaking through 1539. Again, they had the Nvidia partnership two days ago. That's what really sent them flying. I mean, any of these companies announced a partnership with OpenAI or Nvidia, it changes the trajectory of their narrative. Does it necessarily mean their stock becomes more uh prone to be successful in terms of like earnings growth? Not really. But it does mean the narrative on the perception of that increases dramatically. And then it's up to the company to execute. But this market is not afraid of getting excited for those narratives, especially if it's in a sector like AI. And it looks like that's not easily slowing down. RXRX, is that moving? Recursion Pharmaceuticals, that's up 14% today. Okay, so you got a lot of biotech names that are moving. Yeah, CRM was the only stock that was down on the OpenAI partnership news. Um, oh, here's a new stat for you guys. Corporations now own over 1.02 million Bitcoin after buying the most Bitcoin ever in Q3. Wow. 5% of the Bitcoin supply, huh? that that's all your uh your your crypto treasuries that are out there. But you know, it's not the Amazons or Microsofts, their shareholders rejected the ability for them to to buy. You know, if Meta shareholders when when Zucks had the vote a year ago actually voted yes to buy Bitcoin, I feel like Zucks would have been so happy buying Bitcoin. He seems like a guy who's like more on the side of yeah, let's just like keep it on the balance sheet. But shareholders rejected the proposal and that's why they have not been been able to buy. Uh Wall Street Journal reports China is deliberately tanking markets to force Trump into major concessions and trade talks. Uh Baba, are we down? China's up today. So, Wall Street Journal thinks that China is trying to get Trump to give him some cassette. I mean, dude, that's why I think the markets are also up today. I kind of think I kind of think the markets are just like, dude, this whole soybean nonsense is just two people going back and forth and or two entities going back and forth and it's not real. Just like in April, it wasn't real. Soybeans, cooking oil, export controls on rare earths, none of that shit's real. It's all just a game they're playing with each other and the stock market is collateral damage there. But, you know, that ends up being a dip for a lot of people that don't think that it's actually real. Oaklo still up 186 on the day. AMD finally making a push for 236. He got to 23550 right here. Pretty big day, dude. That's a $17 move on AMD. A 17 Delores move for AMD. Asana still pumping. That was up 20%. Sana 34% that is all Eric Jackson I would imagine that is all him hut from yesterday that is up 12%. And then better mortgage play that is up 8%. Iroot is up 44% today. Irbt Why is this thing up 44%. $170 million market cap. Didn't these guys get bought out? I thought these guys got bought out a while ago. IBT. Did they partner with OpenAI? Like, uh, I Robot is leaning into a major turnaround story under a new chief marketing officer. Um, we started this company and will continue to lead it, she said, signaling confidence in their brand power. She noted that iRoot is benefiting from renewed public interest in robotics fueled by Elon Musk's humanoid ambitions. Dude, all she said is we are going to focus on robotics. That's it. That's all you needed for a 44% move. I don't see any partnerships. I don't see any numbers. I don't see any like integrations with other LLMs or anything like I see I just see a chief marketing officer's comments on how much they are going to lean into quote unquote the robotics industry. See that shit's weird, bro. Like that like like a stock goes up 44% because the CMO says we're going to get excited about robotics. Average volume two million today 8 million in in in an hour like like oh a robotics company focusing on robotics bullish 44%. Like what's going on bro? Some of this [__] is weird bro. I'm like some of this again it is not the in my opinion death of a bull market. This company is $200 million right? So like if it goes to zero, who cares? But a 45% move I is is is the market having such ready hands that people are ready to pull the trigger on a robot company saying we want to lean into robotics. Like what is that? That doesn't make sense. I mean it does make sense, but it's it's not what you normally see when a company just tries to put out a statement like that. Now, they might be shorted heavily, so there could be a squeeze going on, which would explain a little bit more. Um, but still, that's a pretty pretty massive move. Um, yeah, 28% short. All right, so I guess you're getting a squeeze here. I mean, that that that probably explains it. any bullish catalyst like the CMO talking about robotics was enough to potentially get the shorts to cover, but you still had to have that initial amount of buying to even get the squeeze to take place. And the fact that people bought on those comments, it's pretty wild to see. Next up, you're going to have Coca-Cola focuses on soda. Boom. 44%. Yeah. I mean, look, when stuff like this happens, you either chase it or you sit back and say, "I don't care." You I think it's one or the other, and you got you got to pick and choose which battles you want to fight because the risk associated with them could be massive reward, but it also could be massive bag holding, which is not necessarily fun. Um, yeah, they could they should have partnered with Will Smith. That would have made it better. That would have been it easier. We're in a bull market. anything goes. See, but that's not the healthiest bull market. A bull market where it's a, you know, structural tailwind across macro and um technological perspectives is healthy. A bull market where things go up for the sake of going up is 2021. Now, granted, I think the macro and tech tailwinds are so strong that it overpowers the frothiness of anything going up for the hell of going up, which is also a function of a bull market. But I I just don't think you want to see that become the norm. Like we want this thing to last for the next 5 10 years. And froth in the system definitely doesn't help that playing out. ETH below 4,000. ETH very close to below four. Where is Fartcoin? We haven't looked at last time we looked at it was like a$120, right? Okay. So, some froth came out of Fcoin. 41 cents. It's down 50% in a month. It's still worth half a billion dollars. Market cap is still half a billion, but it is down over the past month. All right, let's see. Let's see what else we got. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see what else we got. Do we have any macro data today? We had Bent talk. We had uh Greer talk. What's your opinion on Regetti and Quantum? Look, I'm not buying it. I wouldn't short it. I can't touch those names, dude. I just can't. It's It's really tough to buy into those stocks for me. I think you have to full fundamentally understand the quantum industry to be super excited to buy those. Is it a sell? I mean, look, I I'm I'm a different breed. If I'm up like 50%, I'll sell. So, anyone who's up freaking on a trade, obviously, if it's like a long-term holding, I'm holding it. But if it if it if if I got into Regetti for the hell of it at 10 bucks and it's at 50, I'm out. I'm not staying till it gets to 100. But then again, you know, if you bought at 10 and you could have been out at 20, you would have missed getting up to 50. So, it really comes down to how much risk tolerance you have on some of these. Let's do this question in the chat as well and kind of see what's going on from there. First of all, 88% of you said you don't own Oaklo. Okay, so let's do this question. I think we haven't asked this question before. How long do you hold a swing trade? One month, three months plus, three months, few weeks, six months plus. Feel like everyone has their own time frame for swing trades, but that tends to be the bucket you would put them in. Here's uh some more updates and some coverage right here on ASML that had earnings yesterday. An earnings beat and a slight revenue miss, but that's not the story. The story is really what uh the company says about where semiconductor demand is heading. Three things matter. First, the AI boom is broadening. The CEO said momentum around AI investments is extending to more customers, including advanced DRAM players. That's more advanced memory players. And that's also helping semicap equipment names today like KLA and Lamb. both of those names turning at least three% higher. Secondly, ASML's got a monopoly on the extreme ultraviolet lithography machines needed for those chips and orders roughly doubled year-over-year to 5.54 billion euros. That is real demand. And then second, I should actually say now, China ASML expects sales there to decline significantly next year after two very strong years. Call it normalization rather than collapse. They're no longer stockpiling ahead of export restrictions. And then lastly, third, the growth outlook. ASML said 2026 won't be worse than 2025. But analysts are reading it as a floor, not a ceiling. Caner Fitzgerald wrote that the sun is finally coming out and called this a bottom for ASML 2026 in particular, with 2027 looking stronger. Wedbush added that EUV tool demand is running better than expected, driven by incremental AI data center buildouts that we constantly talk about every single day. And so this actually matters big time for TSMC, which reports to on Thursday morning before the bell. ASML's stronger than feared outlook could signal TSMC lifts capex plans uh next year to support AI demand. And if TSMC confirms accelerated spending, then that kind of validates the entire semiconductor buildout cycle that should have legs beyond 2025 and 2020. So we're going to get the update from TSMC tonight. Ethereum, by the way, just below 4,000. But ASML earnings, again, you could tell management wasn't the most bullish on that call. Stock right here is up 3%, but they did do some really good buybacks um back when it got hit 30%. Uh TSM is a little bit more of the signal around where semiconductor demand is going. Uh I put another poll in the chat. What percentage hold for a swing trade do you do? A lot of people said three months was the average for the time frame. Most people right here are saying about 10%. 10% which is fair. I mean, if you're playing with a sizable amount of money, right, 10% is a pretty big move, but obviously it depends on the option, the time frame on the option. If you do an option in the first place if you just buy raw equity, I feel like for me, dude, like if it's a really quick swing, like five to seven% and you know, five to seven% on your money if you do that in a week or two, that's amazing. that is that is not easy to do. If you're a day trader, you're probably looking for, you know, less than a percentage point a day with big money. But if you're working with an option, you know, this is what Jason does. You know, he does usually three to six months, and he's looking for a a one or two X if he can really nail the direction of where where the stock is going. Tenko says, "I'm up 900% on call options. Still haven't sold yet with three months left." What stock? Tenko got you that 900 bag. I mean, that's incredible, dude. Not bad to see a 9x here. I mean, a lot of people do it. I think my dad's up 7x on his SoFi calls that he bought at seven bucks. So, some of these things have just completely printed. So far, right, they're back below 29 at 2860. AMD, are we still move? Wow. AMD, we broke through 236, 237. Okay, let me check 238 resistance and see if that's on the way. 238. Um 46,000 shares. 46,000. I'm up 15x ons calls. Dude, some of these leaps have just printed. Absolutely printed. Um, have we talked about the nuclear spack? Yeah, we looked at it. That's Hand, right? H O N D. Wow, it's up another 22% today, dude. Or wasn't it up like 10% yesterday? Yeah, past five days, it's up 73%. I mean, it's a spack in the nuclear uh ecosystem. It's going to catch a bid. And there you go. It's catching a bid. So that's what we got. I mean, look, so again, it comes down to do you take the risk on this? I'm not taking the risk. I'm sorry. Just I feel like I've been very riskrone over the past two years, obviously with pounder and hood. Um, but on some of this [__] like I can take a risk if I understand it, and I really believe in the company. A spack that's in the nuclear space, people throwing money at this [__] just in case it runs. I I'm not like I'm not built to take that type of risk. I'm just not just philosophically, I I can't do that, bro. Money is too precious to just throw it at something like that, even if it works. So, it's tough. It's tough to just throw stuff. And I, you know, I have my little swing trades for fun all the time, but like it is tough to easily think that those are definitely going to work. Bit farms right there. That's up three and a half, six, 3.6% as well. And gold continues to move. I usually keep my leaps at 2 to 3% portfolio size. Yeah, dude. I mean, last year I kept it at like 50%. So that's what I mean. It's like I'm not afraid of taking risk. It's just it has to be super well calculated. And usually when the stock is not up 5x or 73% in 5 days, that's when the risk becomes a little bit better in terms of the upside for reward versus just piling in. Amazon right here continues to get hit 215. Looks like that DOJ narrative that was with Google and hurting it is not the same exact narrative, but it's definitely a narrative for Amazon that's not helping. That might be where the opportunity is. Where is Bitcoin? Are we below? Are we below 110? We are just above 110. 111 on Bitcoin. IBM, did that make a little bit of move today? You know, IBM quantum that's getting into it as well. Also, the other reason why Quantum's up this week, IBM up 2% is because JP Morgan did say they're investing more in quantum. didn't specify how much, but it was like part of this memo that Jamie Diamond put out and that's what got the street, I think, a bit more excited as well. Um, let's just finish up with Gersonner here because we didn't finish up his last couple minutes, but let's get his kind of final thoughts on the market and we'll go from there. Incremental market share to AI basically has gone to Nvidia, right? AMD missed the wave, but to Lisa's credit, she raised her hand and said, "I'm betting the farm. I'm going to give 10% of my company to OpenAI, and I'm going to bet that the MI450 is going to work, and it's going to be competitive with Nvidia." That's not exactly the position of strength that you want to be coming at it, but it's also a recognition. Lisa said, "We're in year two of a 10-year super cycle to build out the compute in America. If you're not on the AI wave, then you're not going to participate in all that upside. When you think about the big LLMs, open AAI at least clearly seems like they are going to be a winner. Google, I don't know where you think anthropic lands in all of this. I know you own meta. Y, they're trying to play this game, but playing in an open source way. Does that work? Yeah. So, let's let's bucket it into consumer and enterprise. I think that's the easiest way. On the consumer side, I've invested in three or four super cycles now. The internet super cycle, the social, mobile, etc. The winner tends to be winner take most, right? So, Google had a lot of competitors, 20 competitors in search, they all have pretty good technologies, but Google consumed 98% of all the upside ever associated with search. Meta in the uh in in the case of social, Apple obviously with the app store. I think we know Altimter has a massive position in open AI and so he continues to believe those consumer startups are going to win. AMD really pushing for 240. Uh we just broke 238, right? That was 40,000 shares. 239 resistance. 15,000. 15,00 This is a 9% day for AMD folks with no news outside of a price target increase. But besides the upgrade, there's nothing. There's no like massive open AI deal. I mean, you did have the Oracle deal yesterday. That was actually pretty important news that and the stock was flat. So maybe a little bit of a delayed reaction right here. But AMD two bucks away from breaking through those alltime highs. Nvidia did get another upgrade, but that one not really moving in the same way. That stock still up about 1% at uh at 182. Yeah, this this 100% correct. The Oracle deal got muted by the macro stuff yesterday. That's fair. I mean that dude did 50,000 GPUs from Oracle and AMD. That was a that was an important headline yesterday and that was a great headline to follow up the OpenAI stuff. It showed that there was a lot of momentum Lisa Sue was building but then the soybean stuff kind of ruined it. It looks like the market's moving on from 250 on the googs so right here at 28. Grab did get a price target upgrade to 70 bucks from City Bank yesterday. So now they have three targets on the street at seven a couple above eight again. Q3 earnings November 3rd. That's going to really be where we potentially see a rerating, but that will be what we mainly have to watch out for in terms of upcoming catalyst. SMCI is up 2.3. That continues to go green. Apple's up one. Amcore, are we past 31? We are trying to get above 31. 30.85 on Amcore. That's up 3% as well on the day. Um 70. Oh, did I say 70? I meant seven. 70 would be legit, bro. 70. That'd be awesome. Well, seven bucks. We're looking for seven. Soundhound. That one's still moving at 22 20 21.72. All right. So, I think the story of the day is as follows. Uh number one is the China soybean stuff is being perceived based on the price action that we're seeing right now as a negotiating um I guess leverage forming event on both sides. And as a result, the market's like, hey, you know, let's let's put both kids in in the in a in a room together, give them a timeout, and they'll figure it out. And hopefully that will happen in South Korea when they meet for the first time in a couple months. So that might be not that big of a structural issue. JPAL said yesterday they're going to stop quantitative timing. That's bullish. Earnings on the banks phenomenal. Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, City, JP Morgan, if you rewind earlier in the show, we talked about the bank earnings. I mean, Morgan Stanley beat by 35 freaking percent. I mean, you're telling me the tech companies aren't going to have good earnings and banks are beating by almost 40% on EPS. That continues to be a very strong narrative. And then based on all the other headlines we covered this morning about the 40 billion data center investment with Nvidia and Black Rockck, AMD Oracle, 50,000 GPU deal, more and more chips being sent to XAI and OpenAI from Jensen, these ideas around robotics continuing to gain momentum, all of those tailwinds along with the general October volatility is likely why we're seeing a Vshape potentially back to the upside. And then on top of that, you got the Trump administration uh that put out this memo today from the army around in investing in nuclear energy and that's what helped all your nuclear stocks today. So I think you put all of that together and it kind of hurts a lot of the bearish momentum from Sunday or from from Friday and as a result I think that's why stocks are doing their thing right here. It's not too bad. Not too bad. And I think that's what we have on the day. Troy, thanks for the super chat. What do you mean when you say leap? LEAP is just a longterm option. So usually you can do leap puts, leap calls, but they tend to be 365 days out. And you basically buy time. So I have leaps on grab for $10 January 2027. I am betting that Grab will get to 10. Uh right now it's at six in a year and a half. And if I'm right, I usually get an alpha based on that call option contract against the underlying of just buying the stock itself. But it is risky because shares don't expire, options do. So leaps are uh leaps are one you're out. Bob, thank you for becoming a channel member. Appreciate it. Andy, thank you for becoming a channel member as well. Matt said, "Thank you for the TA yesterday. Really helped with what Jason said. Matt, thank you for being here. Thank you for being a channel member and thank you for the super chat as well on the day." And uh Tota, thank you for the super chat. It's our birthday month. Let's celebrate. Dude, we got 12 more days until your boy is 28 years old. So, we are quickly ramping up the uh the dial when it comes to age. All right, word of the day. Word of the day. What do we got? What the heck is this, dude? Magischool. Magischool. I'm going with Magis School. Majestule. Okay, that's not my fault. I'm not even going to apologize, but that's not my fault. Majescu. Large or capital letters. Dude, who has ever used that word before to describe capital letters? Majescal. Wow, the letters are very majestical. What? Like, who's ever who's ever freaking used that word? Large or capital? A large letter literally sounds for capital letters. I use that word every day. All right, for sure. Uh, sometimes says, "It's my birthday today." Happy birthday to you. We got a lot of October babies in the chat. Tons of October birthday. So, happy birthday to you. Thank you for being on the market open to uh to help spend your or help celebrate your birthday and spend your time on this day. I'm sorry for the uh the five minute data center, I guess, blackout we had. I'm going to blame it on data centers in New Jersey. They are building a ton in New Jersey. So may maybe that's my excuse, but hopefully that doesn't happen tomorrow. But we got to do the show. We got to keep it going. We looked a little bleak there for five minutes and then we came back. So we are here. All right. I'll be back on the market close. Uh today we will have United earnings. So we'll take a look at those earnings. That's going to be really important for the health of the consumer. So after the close we'll look at United and then tomorrow is going to be a really important day with TSM. We got Charles Schwab, IBKR, a bunch of other banks reporting. So, tomorrow is going to be a massive day, but if we can keep this S&P 1% move, it's a decent decent recovery here. Even if we close anywhere above 665, I think that would be pretty bullish given where we were on Friday. And then hopefully we can get back up to that 670 level. Yeah, Nebius literally has a data center in New Jersey, bro. I'm telling you, it's the data centers. They're gonna they're gonna One day you're going to be doing something. Power is going to go out and it's going to be because of these freaking data centers. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. Let's see if AMD can crack through this 240 as well. And I'll be back on the market close. Uh we will have one more show on Twitter again 12:30 Eastern if you're interested in a relatively small I would say undervalued energy play. Uh we will be talking 30 minutes. It'll be a quick show. Audio on X. Equity edge is the name of the show. ENS is the ticker. I don't have a position in this. still doing my DD but stock talk does and so he'll be giving us some DD on the stock in the energy solutions and battery space. All right, there we go. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.