‏I to ask you because I know that you one people. طيب كل جزئيه كنا نمر عنها كل
>> يعني يمكن ان يكون السؤال اسهل علي ان سالتيني وقلت لي ما هو الشيء الذي لم يختلف عن ما تفضل ‏from the New York Times. I'm Rachel Abrams and this is the daily. Earli this month after Israel and Hamas reached fire agreement, the Israeli military said it would pull back from certain areas of Gaza. ‏This meant that some Palestinians who been displaced to the south could try to return home to the north. الو مرحبا عم تسمعني
>> الو لا استطيع ان اصف هذه المشاعر لان من اللحظه الاولى التي سمعت بانها الامر لثانيتين بل انني اخذت القرار على الفور بانني ساعود اكتبونا الله stron ‏Is bom more are displaced fames from across gaza refuge wai to the week was صوت الناس بتزقف وبتهدتف يعني ساهر الغرا هل في كان مشهد اثر فيك؟
>> النسبه الاكبر كانوا اطفال يعني ما كان يتعدى عمرهم الع سنين في وجوههم بيضحكوا انتجت على الافراح ويعني بعبروا عن مشاكل وكان يحكوا كلام واحد خلصنا نموت بعد
>> كنت بجهز قصه قصه مصوره انه بدي اقدم لها لمس فكانت الواحد بتات فهذا شي يعني في الواحد بعد ما روحت من خان يونس وخلصت التصوير زي حاجز الباب بينفتح ويهجم مره واحده فكان دخول المشهد كان يعني بتحكي انه الاف الفلسطين حواليهم ناس بيمشوا في بياع ببيع على الطريق اه على الشارع مب ‏some peopleadصلع وقت يعني انت حسيت انه الناس اختلفت اكيد طبعا يعني الناس من خلال يعني هو الموقف اللي بكونوا عايشين فيه لعب دور فرق لما يكون الشخص نازحور الو
>> الو مرحبا نضال
>> مراحب مراحب يا هلا نضال كحيل
>> والله من حسن حظك ان انا موجود في كافي واه اوكي عندي انترنت حاليا ‏Unlike and thousands of other palestans who walking that day, was a cafe was ولكن الحقيقه انه بيتي انا تحديدا اللحظه المعلومات 31 الا انا بتذكر طبعا هو بيتو والدي يعني هو كان عباره المدخل هو قديم ‏And it was oldernal complications of buildings there was
>> عارفه ريحه الدفا لما بيكون في بره مطر وبرد وعارفه لما بكون في اه هيك
>> ولما بكون بره هيك في حر يعني بتفوت البيت تعملي هيك فاهمه علي يعني شعور الراحه هذاغزاوي يعني بالفلسطيني بالغزاوي الريحه مليانه الفه ومحبه غرفتي يعني انا غرفتي مثلا كانت ملازل يعني البيت المكان ما فيش عندي كلمات غير انه انا يعني اشعر مازلت مصمم ان هو وطن صغير جو الوطني عندك بعد امل انه بيتك يكون موجود؟
>> انا بتمنى يعني اتمنى حتى لو كان ‏So I hope that the house is standing. ‏I mean I really have no words even if it's just the roof I'll bring a tarp and I'll just house out of it. نقدر نعيش فيه راح ا روح اعيش فيه ارجع ‏A few miles away from traveling he took photos as he went of head home on a road crowded by of rocks and fring of buildings but was not only taking photos of other people's journey العافيه تل الهواء وصلتله ما دخلت جو بس انا وفي كمان بيت كل بيوت احنا بنفيش ولا بيت بطلع في الشوارع يعني في شغلات كثير انا قعدت على انه انا بعرف الجاتو فانا بتذكر انه هل هو هذا المحل او لا كان بدل العرايس فصراحه الواحد بحس حاله انه بدون هويه هذا المكان انا وبتصير اعيش مش بدنا وقت لما نراجعه زي ما كان
>> يعني طبيعه كلامهم كانت انه عشان ايش صار كل هذا وايش استفدنا من الحرب اللي استفدنا من الحرب وانه الحرب هذه وضيعت حياتنا وضيعتنا هذا الكلام مش الكلام
>> رحت لمنطقه شمال غرب مدينه غزه اللي هي منطقه شارع الجلاء هي منطقه منطقه حيويه كثير وكنا ندخل خصوصا ومحلات ثانيه مول تجاري او فكنت يعني اول ما وصلت رفعت بس قعدت اتذكر طلعت في المشهد هيك لقيت على اليمين وعلى اليسار قوم
>> بس كوم حجار على اليمين وكوم حجار على اليسار وفي النص مليان مليان لدرجه من كثر الدمار فاحنا صرنا نشوف حتى نشوف البحر لانه كان في قبل في عمارات مغطيه اليوم هذه العمارات وقعت لو كان في شويه امل فهذا الامل لو بدنا نقعد ايش بدنا نقعد وين بدنا نقعد
>> زي اللي اجاني شعور انه انتهى كل شي
>> والمناطق السكنيه الكثير الكثيره هذ ماضلش يعني كلها كوم حجار ‏And it just like this entire place people used to like enity is just gone. It's just a pile of rocks. We be right back. ‏In a neor in the northwest of Gaza City just across from where the photal was there a city this is whereold boy named wased earli this year when the seaside road reopened his father paid to get ‏made back trailer with 20 other people allaving the was only stop in a larger journey wasn't going home to rebild his old life he knew that he never could he was going home to say goodbye when arrived in the cemetery he dug up his son's body he put him in a white bag and carried him on roughly الو
>> السلام عليكم
>> كيفك حسين الله يرضى عليك المركز الاول حسام عوده من فلسطين
>> الله اكبر
>> كانت حياتي قبل الحرب يعني لاعب كمال اجسام ‏I was paraly
>> وفي السنه اللي فتحنا فيها الجيم اشتغلت معايا في جيم لكن في فتره كانت خالد محمد يوسف محمد الايام قريب مننا باقي الايام كنت اخذ مثلا زيارات عائليه معي البحر البحر قريب منا شغلات زي هذه حياتي طبيعيه مثلي مثل اي شخص قلبت حياتنا راسا على اخب استشهدت عائلتي انا في بدايه الحرب في تاريخ 29/1023 الساعه 8 ونص صباح انت كنت وجود لما صار هذا القصف اللي عم تحكي لي عنه
>> هو تم قصف الطابق الارضي بصاروخ يعني الطابق هذا من
>> كانت كل كل اللي بشوفه هو سواد قدام عيني فانا في لحظتها يعني سمعت ف سمعت زوجتي بتنادي علي سالتها ويند ولكن ما ضرق ولكن ما ضرروا من فانا متاكد ان بنتي كانت معاهم يعني لانه هي تشتري شويه مصا فاخذتهم ونزلت فيهم يعني فجات في في المكان الطابق اللي فجاءت يعني ما اي وكل الموجودين في المكان كانوا عباره عن اشلاء يعني ما فيش راحت ستها الصبح فصار الحدث وهي موجوده عندهم 10 people احنا نزحنا ما يقارب سب وعشنا في مدرسه ونزحنا مخيمشنا في المستشفى مرات اهing up the rubble as best they ‏inside and tried to make two rooms and a makeshift bathroom. Husin never let his sons out of his sight. His muscle body was getting thinner and thinner, but he still made his sons feel safe, feel protected. The family stayed there for around 4 months until one night in May, the fighting got so intense they felt like they had to leave. اتفقت انا والسواق الساعه 12 الظهر بده يجي يجي طلعت من البيت اروح اجيب السواق وارجع مجرد ما رجعت في انفجار حصل في نفس المكان اللي انا عايش في
>> شفت يعني البيت اللي انقصف هو بيتي كنت بعيد عنه
>> المكان كان كله غبره سودا وسكن ما يعني صعب صعب جدا انك تشوف اي شيء في المكان ف توجهت للمكان بسرعه فجت هذا المكان المصوف هو بيتنا ولكن الاس بعد البيت كله فسمعت صوت واحد فبعد ساعه ونص من المحاولات يعني الانتشار من فكانت هذه زوجتين ولكن كلورس ونجيت باعجوبه يعني اما اولاد الثلاثه اللي هو خالد ويوسف ومحمد استشهدوا ف في نفس اللحظه ابن محمد الصغير بعمر اربع سنوات زوجتي بالضبط محمد اشوف ولا اعرف انه كانوا عايشين عباره عن
>> والله هو شعور هو شعور العجز يعني انه انا اول شيء انا انظلمت مرتين تمث راح اجيب سواي يعني ايش ايش ارتكب اطفالي لحد البيت انا في نفس اليوم اللي استشهد في الصبح الساعه ت الصبح ف كانوا مبسوطين كثير كثير ايش نفسك قاللي انا نفسي تجيبلي بلاي ستيشن ويوسف طلب مني اللي هو فزبا فما محمد الصغيرت هذ اخر طلبات لهمخر امنيه ‏That was that was their last wish. That was the last things that they wished for. I asked Hin if there might be any reason his building was bombed, whether it might have been aet for the Israel military. He said no. ‏He told me that he's not political nor is he a member of Hamas and neither were any of his family members who were killed in either of the strikes. We have not found any evidence that goes against that. We do know that one of Hussein's cousins was a senior leader in Hamas who was targeted and killed in a searate Israel air strike. But Hussein told me he wasn't close to that cousin. ‏He has dozens of cousins and hed only seen this particular one a couple times in his life. Ultimately Hussein rejects the idea that his building was hit because of his cousin's affiliation with Hamas. He says his family was killed indiscriminately. ‏Most of those killed in both strikes on his building were women and children. We asked the Israeli military about the two strikes. We provided them with the coordinates of Hussein's building and the names and ID numbers of those killed. They provided no reason or explanation for the strikes and didn't dispute Hin's account of the story. ‏The days that followed the second air strike were frantic for Hussein. His wife Ra had been seriously injured. Hussein rushed her back and forth between several hospitals. After multiple visits, they found out she suffered a broken and dislocated pelvis. She also had severe nerve damage. The injuries left her partially paralyzed from the hips down. ‏Doctors told her she'd require a lengthy surgery, but they couldn't do it. First, because they didn't have the medical equipment required to do it in Gaza. And second, because the surgery would take hours, hours in which they could save many people's lives. They just couldn't spend so much time on a single patient. The doctors told them she would have to leave Gaza to get the operation. ‏trying to get his wife medical care was also trying to find and b in the rubble he looked and looked until it was no longer safe to do so he and his wife had to flee south had to leave his son's b behind he grieved his sons and he grieved over not being able to bury them weeks later hus asked a family friend who was still ‏to look under the one more time to see if could find anything. He did. He found's body but it was too dangerous to bearf in the family grave. So his friend took's body south to Gaza city and temporarily buried him in the cemetery there. But he never found its body. حسين
>> وانا في مدينه غزه اخذت ابني يوسف
>> وتوجهت فيه الى مخيم جبال
>> لكن كل بقدر نعمله هو انه ادفن حبيب يوسف رحمه الله عليه وان شاء الله الملتقى بكون الجنه
>> وكان صعب جدا بصراحه يعني لسه لو انا مسافر على اقره لميتنا في مخيم جباليا ونحاول باي طريقه انتشال
>> بعدين توجهت لبيتي
>> رحمه الله حاولنا انتشار خالد اخذنا الرفات هذه وعملنا له اللي هو جنازه بسيطه دفنته في القبر اللي دفنت فيه يوسف ومحمد مقبره كمان يوسف القبر اللي دفنت هو بصراحه كان يعني ارتياح كبير ان انا دفنت يعني انه انا ابني موجود تحت المنزل بعدين انه انا ممكن ادفنهم واكر رمهم بالدفن يعني حتى في قبورهم يعني يكونوا موجودين مش تحت ركام كمان خالد يوسف المحمد ‏grave daysas came into they were 10 and years old they wereed next to their sister she was and and what about your house do you have plans to rebuild the house do you have any hopes for making this a home again for you or is it just too painful to think about لا
>> لا لا
>> نعم
>> لانه بصراحه المكان اللي انا عايش فيه I mean at this اخذ النصيب الاكبر في هذه الحرب من الدمار ومن القتل
>> ولكن انا زوجتي بحتاج لعلاج يعني انا بناشد كل شخص يعني ‏My wife, I'm thinking about her the most. I want her to restart her life. You know, she still needs to do the surgery that she needs in order to heal. ‏And we are just trying to figure out how to make it by with the rest of my wife's life. لما صارت الهدنه يعني شعور هو سيء جدا وحلو في نفس الوقت انه توقفت الارض توقف شن عشان يروحوا على البحر وعشان يرجعوا على المدرسه وعشان يشتعدهم اخذهم على البحر حيه كان يحبوها نفسهم يروحوا يطيروا طائره ورقيه هذه كانت اكثر شغله ما تمكنت اني احميهم حدا كثير بصراحه يعني كل السنتين الاخيرات عشناهم مع بعض يعني انا كنت انام انا واياهم انه بعاد عني فللاسف وقت الحادث يعني فصلتنا كان معي انا
>> فهذا اكثر حدث يعني بقلمني بصراحه
>> عن جد انا كثير حزين يعني انه انتهت الحرب مافوش يعني فتحوا عليهم على الدنيا ه على الله
>> بابا
>> اليوم انا وخالد ويوسف وحموده
>> حبينا نمسي عليكم يلا قول لهم يلا باي
>> باي
>> ارجع لمدرستي ارجع لعنطيتي ارجع لص
>> ايش اخبارك
>> منيح
>> اه
>> وانت يا يوسف
>> اه
>> كيف حالك
>> منيح
>> منيح
>> وانت خالد كيف
>> حالك يعني احنا في السابق صف البيت هذا اللي احنا موجودين فيه واحنا موجودين ربما ‏un எம ‏Since the beginning of the war, 90% of G have been displaced many of them repeatedly. Hundreds of thousands of them have traveled from the south to the north, back to their homes since the seas began. But many on this journey have found only rubble. ‏The UN also estimates that nearly four out of five buildings in the strip have been damaged or destroyed. Pictures and videos have emerged of tents sprouting up where homes have been flattened, families sweeping up debris, children resting on dusty mattresses among boards and concrete and it's unknown how many bodies are buried under the rebel. ‏To date, roughly 68,000 Palestinians have been killed in the war. 18,000 of them children. That's according to the Hamasran Ministry of Health. Around 9000 people have been reported missing and they presumed dead under the debris. Several thousand are still not counted among the dead. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the Israel government accused Hamas of violating the ceas. ‏The Israeli military launched strikes that killed at least a hundred people according to Gaza Health officials. It was the deadliest day since the ceasfire was agreed on 3 weeks ago. The ceas resumed Wednesday morning. We be right back. ‏Here's what else you need to know today. By Wednesday night, more than 20 people, including children, were killed in Haiti and five bodies were recovered in Jamaica after Hurricane Melissa made landfall this week. ‏The hurricane was a category 5 storm when it hit Jamaica on Tuesday before it moved on to Cuba. It has been downgraded to a category one storm and beganning through the southern part of the Bahamas on Wednesday evening. Officials said that more than 1 million people in Jamaica or a third of the population were directly affected by the storm which devastated the island to levels never seen before. ‏twoal prutors will put on leave after they requed a stiff sent for a man who showed up armed bar obama's house. ‏The man had previously been pardoned for his role in storming the capital on January 6th, and the prosecutors had described him as being among the mob of rioters in their sentencing memo. The news was the latest act of retribution by the Trump administration against prosecutors in the US attorney's office in Washington who worked on cases relating to January 6th. ‏That campaign has also included dismissals and emotions. Today's episode was reported by Rochelle Bonja. It was produced by Lindsay Garrison, Rochelle Bonja, and Clare Tennis Getter. It was edited by Maria Burn with help from Michael Benis, Ben Calhon and Page Cet. ‏It was fact checked by Susan Lee. Contains music by Marian Lozano, Dan Powell, Pat Mcusker, Alishabe and Diane Wang and was engineered by Moxley. Research help by Sarah Mawad and Eric Ter. Special thanks to Adam Razgon, Yaraumi Adrian Carter, Tervin, Aon Boxerman Bu Triple and Sad. ‏That's it for the daams. See you tomorrow.