不安陌生人之后我心里有几个惦记的人一直想聊一聊我联系的第一个人是高耀杰我们俩约好在12月11号连线谈话就在前一天下午正在写给他的问题的时候收到他的传记作者的短信说高一生去世了 I posted this news on my social media platform. Many people miss him. But some people also said that he is a traitor. They continued to spread some controversy about Gao Xiaodjie. They said that the blood and AIDS were not so serious in China. Poisoning and sex transmission are the main ways of infection. And that Gao Xiaodjie was touched by China and even went overseas to receive awards. Even went overseas just for personal fame. Dr. Gao has already done these questions, and there is no way to answer them. Fortunately, how about the truth about the epidemic? The 2006 documentary "The Middle Ages" has a detailed record. Today, I went through the authority of director Ai Xiaoming to broadcast on this channel. At the same time, I made some simple theories about time and cause and effect. The explanation of history and the memory of Dr. Gao. Gao Xiaojie is not the first and not the only one who knows the truth But he is the first to reveal the truth to the whole world and the whole world After that, 27 years have been talking about the end of life This big dinosaur really doesn't have a private attitude we went to a village, more than 3,000 people were killed, more than 500 people were sold a day more than 800 people were diagnosed with cancer, and 500 people were not tested it's really serious 厉害不厉害从事后来看 河南省卫生厅不是不知道真相他们只是没有公开这份1993年的郑州CDC的研究报告发现了542例HIV的阳性这个数字是当年全国汇总数字的两倍而这份报告在当年没有能够刊出结果是两年之后 周口医院的王淑萍医生不得不去北京向中央政府反映河南的艾滋病已经出现了流行之势1995年河南开始全面清理血站但是没有向社会公开原因不公开的结果是血站转向地下彻底失控农民不知情继续卖血病人不知情无法治疗这导致1995年成为疫情蔓延最严重的一年 Zhang Ke, a doctor at the hospital, had once responded to this question to the local officials. An official told him, "It's okay. It will be fine after two years." The deceased could only leave a grave for his testimony. So Gao Xiaojie was able to find the truth by following the grave. He became a black hole. I didn't go to the county, I didn't go to the county, I went to the village. I walked seven towns that day. I met more than 100 patients. 您说每一个水塔下面都是一个高发圈对对对 都是一个高发圈都是一个高发圈乡下这有这么多坟地啊 This is Huoyang Village. Some people died here. There are still more than 600 people in this village. More than 300 people died in recent years. In 2000, the peak of death appeared. But at this time, almost all the people who knew about it had already died. Wang Shuping, who was diagnosed with Heine's disease, was fired. Zhang Jicheng, a local reporter who reported the epidemic in the first place, was fired. Professor Guixian, who discovered the epidemic in Wenlou Village, was expelled. Professor Guixian advised Gao Xiaojie to stop talking if he was not allowed to. Dr. Gao said, "You are ten years younger than me. I won't have a chance if I don't talk." Professor Guixian said, "They will hit you." Dr. Gao said, 那我就拼上这条命2000年秋天高耀杰接受了中国新闻周刊和纽约时报的采访向国内外公开了这场疫情第二年8月在内外压力之下中国卫生部公布河南文楼村疫情举国投入20多个亿建起了400多个血站来控制血源性的传播此时距离高耀杰发现第一个病例过去了5年 5年是什麼概念這是2002年我採訪時任中國衛生部部長張文康的記錄他說從1995年到2001年6年當中中國艾滋病感染人數每年增長30%100個人當中有70個是通過血源傳播的他說如果這個勢頭沒有攔住2010年中國會有1000萬艾滋病患者 and the entire nation was in danger. In November 2003, I went to Henan. This shows the Shoumiao Village. It was snowing heavily in the early morning in Handong. A group of children were sleeping on the cold snow. There were no blankets, and the blood on the ground was wet. There were 52 orphans in that room. 我的新闻线索来自高耀杰这些孩子能被人看见是一位退休医生单枪匹马在黑暗中打出的洞当年年底高耀杰入选了央视的感动中国人物那是2003年中国的公共卫生领域两次前所未有的大公台是两名医生掀开的蒋彦勇 高耀杰 In 2023, we lost them at the same time. Some people say that since Gao Xiaojie is already a moving figure of the Chinese people in the Yang family after 2003, it's not just a moral evaluation, but also a certain political benchmark. Isn't the platform he mentioned enough? Why do you have to talk about it abroad? 我拿我的節目來做例子2003年這些節目我們進村的時候是在凌晨4點拍的天亮之前撤走為什麼因為我的同事之前進村之後被非法拘禁了7個小時押送回北京這個節目播出的時候地點只能夠寫中原某村連希望觀眾捐贈的地址都不能夠寫節目播出之後 No officials are responsible for this. However, all social donations, including 5,000 employees in the city of Yang, which is a total of 1 million, were taken away by the local government. We can no longer follow up on the use of the money. This is my job. Many things are not completed, but Gao Yao Jie has to complete them. 那中元祭是拍摄的就是这个过程很多输血感染的病人他们到法院诉讼不予立案所以高小姐决定要收集100个这样的病例之后向社会公开她不让看她不让看  The government is now selling shoes to the police. Yes, the police are now arresting people. It's not a good thing to buy shoes. How many shoes have you collected now? More than 30. I'm going to count 100. Why did you grow up to be a doctor? I help others. I don't want to see you suffer from the disease Don't want to see me suffer from it? In 2007, Zhang Jianya's illness became worse and worse But his mother couldn't find a doctor Gao's phone and network were cut off. Because an international organization in the United States was going to award him, he was confined in his home. Until this incident was exposed to the international media, he wrote many letters to the Greek. Hu Jintao ordered Gao to receive the award. In this spring, 13-year-old Zhang Jingya died. On the platform, Gao Haojie was wearing a black and white dress. It was a gift from a patient. He said, "I will mourn for Qianqian and Wanwan." I'm sorry. Mom, I'm sorry, you have to make a mistake! I'm so sorry! Mom! Don't cry! I am so sorry, you are my good daughter. I was too busy, I'm sorry for you. Many children are infected with this disease For this child, I have a half-wife I run to the room every day in Beijing Mom, as long as you live, you can get this lawsuit to the bottom Can you hear the child Good good, listen to them You are not sick, how good are you now 有人在發給我的徵件當中說高小姐領完獎之後不是順順當當回國了嗎她沒有受到迫害為什麼日後要出走呢高小姐從美國領完獎回國之後不是直接回河南她直接去了上海幹什麼呢 是找了一位律師然後公證了一份文件這文件當中就是她著名的三不原則不接受現金捐贈 不成立組織不加入團體 他为什么要这么做就是因为他去美国领奖之前河南省红十字会找到他说希望他能够在海外为河南募捐他回来之后 省政府官员找到他说希望出版一本书叫《河南的艾滋病经西反映今日成就》希望他能够挂名 搞费都归他 He rejected all of these things. He used his own words to say, "I am not a person who is too proud. Independence has a price. After a person is famous, sometimes he doesn't do anything. It's harder than doing anything. The price is even higher." His life has never been given any donations. He spent all his money, bonus, and expenses. The office is his home The helper is his husband who got married 52 years ago He is afraid of working and tired So he helps him Until he died of cancer in 2006 Teacher Gao, you even gave me a rope I will help him to eat Good morning. I'm not saying that I can't do it. I'll have to buy it in the future. I don't have the ability to go to the street. I have to buy a bag to carry the old man to the city. I came out in the morning. Look at the city. We played in the city today. After the city was cleaned up, we went back to the city. After washing, I carried this bag. Now I'm sleepy. What do you think I wrote? This is the family. They can't even afford to buy a rope. They spent more than 1 million on the patient's medical expenses. They sent it to patients and children from all over the country. They sent magazines and materials. They packed 8 books and tied them together. They took the 3-wheeled car to the post office. They sent it to every place for free. They said the poor had no money. He sent five copies of this book, but there was no movement until the end. In April 2009, he went to the post office to check the books, and found that all the books had been seized. Where did the order come from? The answer was "Don't ask." A month later, because the French government was going to award her, her phone and network were cut off. This time, Gao Yao Jie left. She said, "The wind is blowing, and she had no choice but to leave, she had no place to speak." After he passed away, I discussed with his author Lin Shi Yu. I asked who would go to another country alone at the age of 80 for no reason, just for the freedom of speech. Lin Shi Yu told me one thing. He said, "Miss Gao, my mother didn't allow me to study when I graduated from primary school. She took a chalk and wrote on the door board, "Fate comes to the West, Soul is free." Then she chose two words, "Junior." After being rescued, she had the chance to continue her studies. "If you are not free, you will die." He said, "Not such a person can do such a thing." Most people go abroad to make their families better. But Gao Xiaojie was almost separated from his family because of going abroad. Before he went abroad to receive the award in 2007, even after Hu Jintao passed away, his son was under pressure. He had to kneel down and kowtow to him three times. He begged him not to go. Gao Xiaojie was very tired. He wrote a note saying, I am responsible for my own actions. It has nothing to do with my son. When he was 14 years old, he was implicated by his mother. He was in the Cultural Revolution. He was in prison for 3 years. He is in prison. You went to see him. Don't listen to me. I went to see him. 没法庭所以我同情路也是从这开始的要防罪的话我点头头干了这十年了已经十年过了 I still have to understand a lot of people. It's not easy to be a daughter of Gao Xiaojie. Many people know that her daughter lost her job due to her mother's involvement. After leaving her hometown, she wrote a letter to her mother. She said that if you go on the path that makes the people of the country scold you, you will die in loneliness. Many people have also blamed this child But I was in the documentary of the Central Plains It was the first time I heard this daughter's voice When I was in pain I cried in my heart I didn't want to argue They often say Is this your biological mother? Every time I say something, I cry. When I cry, I sing. I sing in my heart. Later, my children told me not to think. Don't think. As a mother, you can't do this. As an ordinary person, change your perspective and say, "Who's child is there?" Don't think about this. You should have told your leader the good news. You shouldn't have done this. It was this girl. When she was still a child, her mother took her to the hospital. She was surrounded by people. She was too short. She couldn't squeeze in. She couldn't see what people were saying and doing to her mother. After nearly five hours, her mother was out of the hospital. Then she took her to a restaurant to get a bowl of wonton. When she was eating lunch, her mother vomited blood. She had to be a gastrointestinal surgeon. This is the result of being beaten that day. The life of this child has been spent in such pain, fear, humiliation, and even self-pity. This is not the fault of the mother, nor the fault of the child. But the child can blame. Only my mother. Why did Wen Ge criticize you? I have three problems. I have three hats. One is the filial son of the Emperor. One is the ghost of the missing three people. One is the anti-communist. The iron snake is taller than me. 我在太平家,不是段庆坊的朋友当时你怎么想的?当时我不想活,我有三次自杀你不问这段历史,这是第一个人问这段历史你不问这段历史,你不知道我现在有这样勇气来反抗特别是我复读以后,两天以后清醒了那不是整一个闺女要在幼儿园 They were all crying by the window I said I would never die again I would see this in my dreams one day I thought I would never be able to see it again A man's yearning for a new home He is alone in a foreign country He can't speak the language, and it's easy to talk to him I read this note on paper When he was in the hospital, he had a cup of hot water It was very difficult 但是美國14年 剛好就寫了10本書 Because I don't want to be a I think if you don't stop this epidemic, no one will be able to say anything in the future. He not only wrote the words of love, but also the words of the civil war, the changes in the soil, the Great Leap of the Great Desolate, and the Chinese history that has been in the eyes of a doctor for almost a century. He said, "If I don't write the book and leave it to the future generations, I will be ashamed of history and feel guilty." Professor Li Yanyou told me that Gao Xiaojie never had interest in politics. He only had a doctorate in the field of natural sciences, which is to tell the truth. Some people say that Gao Xiaojie has already broken off with the times. What he thinks and says has nothing to do with the present. If that's true, in 2020, 94-year-old Gao Xiaojie will not write this poem in the late night of February 7th. 高小姐出了書之後 版稅一概不要都底層書寄給國內的大學想留給後來的研究者用從美國寄一本書回去是36美金有一段時間她每個月的生活費是86美金所以她穿布鞋 布丁衣服 捨不得扔聖法 But he still did not join any donations, or any organizations. I think it is important to keep my identity. I will not be a member of the party. Dr. Gao is almost moral. Sometimes he is too harsh and gives a lot of pressure to people around him. When I was talking to Professor Lin, he told me that he didn't even dare to tell Gao Xiaojie that he had divorced. He said that he had the morality of the old times, and that he was a very clean person. Sometimes he may not be objective about what he sees now, but he is sincere, he does not say anything that is against his heart. This is why the New York Times said in a comment after Gao's death, "He opposes the view of promoting the B-shape on cancer prevention, which makes many experts dissatisfied, but even those who oppose him also respect him." Such a fierce impression can easily give people an indescribable feeling. But one day, Gao Xiaojie's nurse picked up a lot of used bottles and put them in the house to sell them. Some customers were worried that they would attract cockroaches or that they would be bad to the elderly. They wanted to say hello to the nurse and let her take them away. Gao Xiaojie said, "No, I thought about it for a long time." "It's not easy to be poor. I sympathize with the suffering." Gao Xiaojie once said in his book "The Rage of the Interrupted Reply" "If you are indifferent to the pain of others, you are not worthy of being a human." Dr. Gao wanted to go back to China until 2016. After he had pneumonia, his lungs had deteriorated. He had to take 24 hours of oxygen and receive care from the nursing home. His son came to visit him once in 2018. He stayed for a day and left. Before leaving, the Chinese were not used to hugging. He put his mother's face on it and said, "Mom, it's still the same smell." They both cried because they knew it might be a farewell. Gao Xiaojie didn't leave the bedroom for the last few years. He was still clear in his mind, but he was trapped by his body. He said he only ran in his dreams. He ran to the Japanese bombings, the civil war. When I was running to the Cultural Revolution, I went to prison to visit my son's grave. There were always bad guys chasing me. I crossed many river ditches. I ran so fast and so thirsty. On my feet and legs, it was all mud. In the end, I always ran so fast that my feet were cramping. Once he was sick and was hospitalized, I went to keep him for a while. When I heard him dreaming, I was so happy. I touched his hair to comfort him. It was a rainy night in New York. Gao Yao Jie's last few years were written books to support her. So Lin Shi Yi deliberately delayed her last book. She wanted to do it slowly. By December 6th, she really couldn't make it. So she sent the book to Gao Yao Jie. Four days later, Dr. Gao passed away. Dr. Gao said He wanted to avoid any ceremony after death He just mixed the ashes of his old partner with the ashes of his old partner and spread them into the Yellow River and left smoothly That was his home His place of birth So today we will use this documentary to accompany him to his hometown with his familiar Central Plains sky, land, village and the person he most cares about Return to the old home 那老母親要兒與神明只要故人會與方就一次性 愛如無法無瑟 心痛觀世意你老愛何何無啦 奇月好天長