So, the AI commentator community seems to have lost its ever-loving mind. Again. This time, it's about a new announcement about Anthropic's new ""Project Glasswing"" and the underlying Claude Mythos model that they say they're not releasing because they say it's too powerful. Some people are saying this is incredibly dangerous and it's very good that Anthropic is holding off on the release, and other people are saying this is just a publicity stunt. Here's the reality: Both of those things are true. Well, to an extent. Kind of. We'll get into it. One thing is, the model itself is probably the least relevant part of the whole thing. And the publicity stunt part? We've been seeing a lot of this particular attention grabbing technique lately. I'm sure it's only going to be getting worse as the AI companies get more desperate to keep up the investment dollars flowing so they can be shoveled into the fire. How are we supposed to believe this Shhh----? This is the Internet of Bugs. My name is Carl. I've been a software professional since the 1980s and I'm trying to do my part to make the Internet a safer and less buggy place. You can find links where you can get in touch with me at InternetofBugs.com if you're so inclined. I'm not going to spend a ton of time going over what Claude Mythos actually is. I'll put some links in the description if you need to catch up. The short version is: Anthropic announced that they have this new model they're calling Mythos, but they say it's too dangerous to release it to the public. It is so good at finding and exploiting bugs, they say, that they "believe it could reshape cybersecurity" so they created something they're calling "Project Glasswing" in conjunction with a bunch of big tech firms quote: "in an effort to secure the world's most critical software" unquote. Let me give you the short version of what's going on and then I'll give you the more details. So there are three things at play here. First off, Anthropic is doing that "We're telling you that this thing is so great that we're not letting you see it, we're only getting access to it to people we want to and you're going to have to take our word and their word for how great it is." The second thing that's going on is a pattern I'm starting to see more often where AI companies spend a ton of money on something that's legitimately useful, then they attribute the useful result of all that spending to the functionality of their software and not the amount of money they actually spent on it. And the third thing is they're making a big deal about the one particular kind of task they have a good way of a model doing, in the hope that the press and the public will think "Well, if that new AI is so good at X, then it must also be good at all this other stuff, right?" So if you want a one- sentence takeaway it's this: "The security risks the news are reporting are real, but they're not because of how good the new AI model is, so much as they're really about how much money the company is spending to show off this one specific scenario that they've invented to make their AI look better than it probably actually is." All right, so let's get into some details. Bragging about an AI product that you haven't actually released is a pretty common pattern. OpenAI let a select few people have early access to ChatGPT-5, and many of them reported how fantastic it was! And then they had to walk it back after it was released and people with no incentive to make OpenAI happy started really testing it objectively, and it landed with a thud. A similar thing happened with DEVIN the so-called "first AI software engineer" where they released some demo videos and quotes from people that they had handpicked to show it to, and then the demos turned out to have been greatly exaggerated. And Devin has just utterly failed to have the impact that they claim. When companies do this, you have every reason to be skeptical. For example, in this case, if it was really as dangerous as they're saying and they really were as concerned about the safety implications as they say, then a responsible company - unlike Anthropic - would just shut the hell up about it until all the bugs the new AI had found had been fixed. That's called "responsible disclosure". It happens all the time. Where security experts find the vulnerability, they notify the affected company about the problem, and then they wait for the fix to be released before they announce their involvement. So, next item up is how AI companies have started trying to get you to confuse effort and money for model ability. I made a video recently about how OpenAI had run a custom-built internal model for hours to simplify some math equations, got some academics try to paper about it, and then wrote a press release that made it sound like ChatGPT was a PhD physicist and had discovered new science. This is the same kind of thing. Some security folks over at aisle.com did some great research and wrote up a great piece about it sub titled "why the moat is the system and not the model." You should check that out if you want more detail - I've linked it below. They took some of the more celebrated bugs that Anthropic says the new model found and they tested them on small, cheap, open-weight models, and got very similar results. That's a very strong evidence that the new model isn't the real story here. It's not that spectacular. What's important is the amount of time and money that they spent. So here's an excerpt from an Anthropic blog post about the denial of service bug they found in OpenBSD which is a very secure operating system that I've been running on my own servers since the 1990s. They say that the bug was found after a thousand runs at a cost of around twenty thousand dollars likewise they spent ten thousand dollars to find a bug in FFmpeg, and they say they found a few thousand other bugs. Now they don't tell us the total amount of money they spent on the computer time for the project, but if we were to extrapolate from the OpenBSD and FFmpeg bug costs times a few thousand for the other bugs, we could easily be at tens or hundreds of millions of dollars. And consider too that they almost certainly spent a lot of money on computer cycles looking at software that they didn't have any bugs that they found. They also said they were gifting a hundred million dollars of compute to their partner companies in "Project Glasswing", and four million dollars in grants to open source groups. Let me put that in perspective for you: The biggest bug hunting program in the world, HackerOne, spends something like eighty to ninety million dollars a year total. "Project Glasswing" is spending 125% of that just in compute for their partner companies. They could easily have spent an additional multiple of that searching for the bugs that were announced in this press release, to say nothing of however much was spent training in the model on existing bugs while it was being built in the first place. Anyone who spends that much money looking for bugs is going to find a ton of them, and we should all be happy that they were willing to spend that, and the end result of this will be a much safer Internet for everyone, and that's fantastic. And Anthropic should absolutely be commended for that. But they're not saying "we spent a ton of money making Internet safer for you" they're saying "look how dangerous and powerful our new model is - you should be in AWE of it" and that's just not the reality here. Lastly, they're glossing over that there is a big difference between discrete tasks with well-defined success criteria and the ambiguities that we as humans deal with all the time. It's very straightforward to set up an environment with a checklist of steps to use to see if a bug has been found, and then let the AI run in that environment for hours days or even weeks, until you either find something or you decide you've spent enough money and it's time to look elsewhere. But this is much more like the way that an AI is taught to be good at chess than it's training for human equivalent general intelligence. And those are two different things, and getting better at one doesn't help you with getting better at the other. The AI Security Institute in the UK has access to the model and they ran it against a number of their "Capture the Flag" scenarios that they use in hacking competitions. It did pretty well - better than any other AI they've tested, but keep in mind that doing hacking Capture the Flag problems is working with clear rules and well-defined victory conditions. These are more like playing chess or go than general software building. So it's vastly easier to train an AI to do this. So, what does that mean for you and for the Internet? Well it means that, as has happened several times before, when new bug hunting tools were released or new bug hunting techniques were published, we're going to be going through a bumpy time for a while from a security standpoint. Expect a lot of security updates for your phones, tablets and laptops, a lot of news reports about hackers for a while, and once we get through this remediation process for everything that this initiative is discovering we'll all hopefully be in a better place and things will calm down. It also means that - finally - AI has given us something that might help counteract all the nightmare security holes that vibe coding is creating. Now I doubt that most vibe coders are going to spend the time and effort using this kind of technique to look for the exploits in their code, but they could, and that's more than we had before. It's not a silver bullet though. Finding and preventing the customer-facing network and OS-related kinds of things that Capture the Flag games prioritize, like buffer overruns, or remote access, privilege escalation, that kind of stuff - that's great, but there are a lot of other kinds of bugs that aren't so easy to look for, like logic errors, data loss, data corruption, synchronization errors, half-committed transactions, roach motel UIs, whack-a-mole, and that kind of stuff. We're still a very long way from a "true AI software engineer". So, don't panic, don't let the news stress you out, but do try to be extra vigilant for a while. Thanks for watching. Let's be careful out there.