Last week, I spent two weeks in China.
I visited Beijing, Chengdu, Emeishan,  
Chongqing, Shanghai, and Hangzhou.
I went because, look, the big  
thing I tried to figure out on this 
podcast is what's happening in AI. 
And the biggest unknown variable 
there is what's gonna happen in China. 
I don't yet have the answer to this question.
This trip was a beginning of my curiosity  
about the country, and not the capstone.
But as I learn more about China over the coming  
months, I hope to share what I learn with you.
Scale. 
It's funny how China has basically 
the inverse problem as America. 
We subsidize demand and restrict supply.
They subsidize supply and restrict demand. 
We can't rebuild fallen bridges, 
they build bridges to nowhere. 
In the most desirable cities in this country, 
every random Victorian house and park bench is  
a historic site that can't be disturbed.
There, they'll bulldoze a 500-year-old  
temple to build an endless skyscraper 
complex that nobody wants to live in. 
My overwhelming first impression was, 
wow, everything is so fucking big. 
The cities themselves, the 
train stations, the airports,  
the towering and endless apartment complexes.
Travel often teaches you things about a country  
which you honestly should've 
intuited even without visiting. 
Obviously, I knew that China is a big 
country, with over 1.4 billion people. 
But the stupendous scale of the biggest cities 
was impressed upon me only after I visited. 
Even in Emeishan, a city of just half a million 
people, which is considered honestly a quaint  
countryside town by Chinese standards, we 
found a Buddhist temple of comical scale. 
We'd enter what seemed like an 
impressively large compound,  
only to discover that it was merely the entrance 
to an even grander structure right behind it. 
This pattern repeated five or six times, each 
subsequent building larger and more ornate than  
the last, like some sort of inverse nesting doll.
And the place had almost no other visitors,  
by the way.
I asked a monk  
at the temple how they funded this massive 
site in a city of just half a million people. 
He told us that it was simply through donations.
We probed further about how such an enormous  
project could've been financed by 
just ordinary people's contributions. 
He responded, "We've got a lot of 
supporters, dude," and changed the topic. 
Chongqing is by far the 
coolest city I've ever visited. 
It's this insane cyberpunk, multi-level 
metropolis with over 20 million people. 
I wouldn't begin to know how to describe 
it, but there's a bunch of great YouTube  
videos which will show you what I mean.
I got a really nice two-floor hotel room  
that overlooked two rivers and one of the most 
insane skylines in the world for 60 bucks. 
I'd highly recommend visiting 
Chongqing if you get the chance. 
In 1995, astronomers pointed Hubble at a 
seemingly empty patch of sky the size of a  
grain of sand held at arm's length.
Instead of emptiness, the 10-day  
exposure revealed over 3,000 galaxies.
Every speck of light in the image was an  
entire galaxy containing billions of stars.
When I went to the top of the tallest  
building in Chongqing and looked over the 
city, I thought about that Hubble image. 
You could zoom in on any direction and 
you'd find, behind the fog and the mist,  
beyond even perhaps the horizon, another 
skyscraper, each containing hundreds or  
thousands of people living and working.
We took a 12-hour train ride from  
Chongqing to Shanghai.
I'm embarrassed to say  
that my only experience with the actual 
countryside was via the windows of this train. 
Still, the sights were quite interesting.
We saw again and again small paddy farms  
surrounding a handful of 
5 to 10-story skyscrapers,  
plopped in the seeming middle of nowhere.
Even in the countryside, it seems that many  
people prefer to live in large buildings 
instead of their own small homes. 
I couldn't hop off the train and confirm, but 
I saw many towns that looked quite ghostly,  
with no actually visible people anywhere.
Outside of Beijing and Shanghai, and sometimes  
even within, you can tell that these skyscrapers 
were put up by a country with a GDP per capita  
of $10,000, and potentially half or quarter 
that when many of these buildings went up. 
America and Europe put up a ton of beautiful 
buildings in the early 20th century when their  
GDP per capita was similar to China's.
One could even argue that those other  
structures are more aesthetic than 
anything we're building today in the West. 
Not so in China.
These endless rows  
of skyscrapers put up in the construction 
frenzy of the last few decades are ugly. 
Boxes of mostly concrete with visible 
blight and discoloration all over them. 
If the great construction binge is 
indeed over, it'll be a shame that  
China's infrastructure was built out during a 
period of particularly uninspired architecture. 
Beijing's urban design looks like something 
straight out of James Scott's Seeing Like a State. 
The city is dominated by these enormous 
apartment complexes, blocks of 10 adjacent  
30-story buildings demarcated by eight-lane roads.
And the government buildings follow the same  
pattern, huge structures divided 
by extremely wide boulevards. 
This layout seems designed 
partly for social control. 
During zero COVID, authorities would 
lock down tens of thousands of people  
by simply guarding a few entrance gates.
The wide roads would also make it easy  
to move military forces throughout the city.
The only break from this pattern are the hutongs,  
Beijing's old historic neighborhoods.
But even these weren't spared completely. 
Only a small fraction survived 
Beijing's rapid modernization push. 
Dare I say that Beijing is too YIMBY? Vibes.
I got quite mixed messages about the state  
of public opinion in China, and this is 
to be expected in a society where you  
can't establish common knowledge.
One person told me that the new  
generation is quite nationalistic, unlike the 
older reformed generation, which personally  
experienced both the catastrophes of Mao and 
also the tangible benefits of liberalization. 
He made the rather insightful point that this 
tilt in public opinion in China increasingly  
gives lie to the American talking point that 
we're against the CCP but not the Chinese people. 
In fact, he went on to say that the current 
regime is way more liberal than what would result  
from an actual election in China.
Another person told me that these  
Chinese nationalists were only a vocal minority, 
similar to the wokes in America circa 2020. 
While they make up only 10% of the population, 
they aggressively shout down others on Weibo,  
which is China's equivalent of Twitter.
Most people find them annoying,  
but feel uncomfortable confronting them directly.
And this matches what a student who just graduated  
from a top university there told me, that the vast 
majority of his classmates are simply apolitical. 
And in our own interactions with 
locals, we saw little evidence of  
widespread nationalism or something.
And in fact, when my Chinese-speaking  
trip mate would mention that he is from the 
UK to our taxi drivers, they would often  
respond quite enthusiastically.
They'd say, "We love the UK. 
There were very few foreigners.
In Beijing, I might've seen half a dozen  
cumulatively, across entire seas of people.
In Chengdu and Chongqing,  
I barely remember seeing any.
And this is a real shame,  
of course, because Chongqing is, again, a 
truly incredible destination to go visit. 
So rare apparently are tourists that we repeatedly 
got asked for selfies in Chengdu and Chongqing. 
Outside of Shanghai, almost nobody spoke English.
And if I went again, I would definitely try to  
crash course some basic Chinese beforehand.
This language barrier did lead to some  
interesting encounters.
At a park in Chengdu,  
we met an old man who was reading a textbook 
which said "Medical English" at the top of it,  
and he asked us to join him for some tea.
I think he was just trying  
to practice his English.
He said he loved foreigners,  
and that his favorite period in life was the '80s 
and '90s when, of course, the reforms kicked off. 
And he told me that he loved Deng.
My tripmates' friends' grandmother  
was incredibly gracious in hosting us 
for a dinner while we were at Emeishan. 
We saw a beautiful Uyghur 
rug hanging on their walls. 
The grandfather pointed it out 
and explained that we have amazing  
relationships with minorities here in China.
And I don't think this was some theatrical  
attempt to contradict Western propaganda.
It seemed like he genuinely didn't know what is  
said about the treatment of Uyghurs in the West.
He was just trying to show his visitors  
something cool that he had.
We kept trying to ask them about  
their own personal experience over the last 
seven decades as China has grown and changed,  
but the grandfather kept responding with 
lengthy monologues about military history. 
Here is a representative exchange.
Me, who doesn't speak Chinese, to  
my tripmate, who does, "Hey, ask them about what 
job they had when they first moved near Chengdu. 
The grandfather speaks in Chinese for ten 
minutes, and I start getting a bit impatient,  
and I started whispering to my tripmate, "Hey, 
what is he saying?" My tripmate, "He's saying  
that the mountains near Chengdu make it a perfect 
base of retreat in case of an invasion, which Mao  
was worried about during the Sino-Soviet Split.
Me, "Wait, what? Why didn't you ask him about  
the first job he had?" My tripmate, "Dude, I did.
Grandpas are the same everywhere. 
People say that Xi is establishing 
a cult of personality. 
This may be true within the CCP cadres, 
but I saw no evidence of it in public. 
I don't think I saw a single picture of Xi 
anywhere, not on billboards, screens, or walls. 
People don't really bring up Xi in conversations.
I saw some pictures of Mao, but mostly in museums,  
and in one case, at a tea farm that 
he apparently used to frequent. 
The hammer and sickle was also a rare sight, 
mostly displayed on government buildings. 
There are indeed cameras everywhere, 
and I'm gonna ask a question. 
This is gonna sound super naive.
But I genuinely don't understand why. 
There's no crime, and I know you'll say it's 
to prevent protest, which might make sense for  
major streets, but even random alleyway 
corners will have a couple of cameras. 
Are they really trying to prevent somebody 
from fomenting an insurrection between two  
garbage cans? Beijing in particular had 
police officers at attention at what  
seemed like every single street corner.
People were quite willing to chat openly  
in public spaces about the problems 
in the country and with the regime. 
And this included people who 
seemed to have a lot to lose. 
Almost everyone I talked to would acknowledge 
that the economy was bad, and many were willing  
to implicate the government's decisions.
Some even casually brought up  
Tiananmen or the Cultural Revolution.
One person was even willing to discuss the odds  
of a regime change at a public restaurant, though 
he may have been an especially careless fellow. 
Look, to be clear, it's an authoritarian 
system, and I certainly wouldn't feel  
comfortable doing what I'm doing there.
But it definitely isn't North Korea. 
Youngsters.
In a shopping mall in Chongqing, a couple of  
high schoolers came up to us in order to get some 
selfies, and this felt like a perfect opportunity  
to learn about young adult life in China.
So I whipped out the translate app in my  
WeChat, and we proceeded rather 
clumsily to make small talk. 
I asked them what they did in their free 
time, and they said that they watched  
two to three hours of TikTok every single day.
And I asked them what kind of videos they watched. 
They said it's a whole bunch of sexy girls.
I laughed because I thought that they were joking,  
but then I asked one of them to pull out 
their phone, and he scrolled past, like,  
ten videos on his feed, and all of 
them were indeed just sexy girls. 
We chatted up a lot of young 
people in the nightlife streets. 
I was struck by how many young people 
expressed feeling stressed or overwhelmed. 
We met a musician in Chengdu who was 
writing songs about youth anxiety. 
We chatted up some modeling school 
students, even they complained  
about the intense pressure they felt.
We met a guy who had studied in Australia,  
but returned to China during COVID.
He explained that many of his  
friends who had prestigious degrees are 
moving away from Shanghai and Beijing. 
You can get paid twice as high in this first-tier 
cities, but the competitiveness is insane. 
And in order to actually land the high school 
positions, they have to work truly insane hours. 
9-9-6 is not a myth.
He said that many of  
his friends were opting for less ambitious but 
lower-paying careers in smaller cities where the  
rent is lower and the pressure's manageable.
I'm still puzzled by how China can have both  
a demographic collapse and massive youth 
unemployment, because you would think with  
fewer young people being born, the ones 
who are around would be in high demand. 
And one explanation I heard while I was there 
is that, look, there's plenty of menial jobs  
that are available, but today's educated youth 
who've gone through high school and college  
just won't take the low-skilled positions 
that their parents and grandparents did. 
So there's a real shortage of the 
high-skilled jobs that would actually  
match their education and aspirations.
I kept asking young people about the  
public intellectual landscape in China.
Who are their equivalents of Jordan Peterson  
and Sam Harris? Who are their podcasters like 
Joe Rogan and Lex Fridman? The sense I got  
while I was there is that this kind of popular 
intellectual ecosystem just doesn't exist there. 
Like, sure, there's a lot of viral Bilibili 
videos from professors talking about practical  
matters, like how to manage your finances.
But grand takes about what's happening in the  
world and what we should do about it, it doesn't 
seem like there's that much of that going on. 
I met a couple of effective altruists in China.
They're exceptionally rare. 
When I asked them about why it's so hard to spread 
effective altruism or similar worldviews there,  
they told me that people there just 
aren't into organizing their decisions  
using some ideological lens.
They're much more concerned  
with practical, tangible matters.
One talking point I heard again and again  
was that China is still a developing country, and 
the implication when people said this seemed to  
be that China can't afford to pursue costly 
idealistic programs around climate change or  
social safety nets or international aid.
It needs to focus on basic economic  
development first.
Tech and AI. 
The biggest surprise from talking to Chinese 
VCs and researchers at their AI labs was how  
capital constrained they felt.
For example, Moonshot AI,  
which is one of China's leading AI labs, 
raised $1 billion at a $3 billion valuation. 
Meanwhile, just xAI's new cluster in 
Memphis alone will cost $3 to $4 billion. 
The tech ecosystem feels quite 
shell-shocked from the 2021 crackdown. 
One VC half-jokingly asked if I could 
help him get his money out of China. 
That's because if you wanna keep your 
money in China, you're basically stuck  
between quite terrible options.
You can either accept the measly  
2% yield from state banks.
Or throw it into China's  
perpetually struggling stock market.
This helps explain why valuations for  
Chinese companies are chronically low.
The exit opportunities really suck,  
even if you build or invest in something great.
There's no guarantee that your company  
will be able to raise the next round.
And even if you do raise again and succeed,  
the government might randomly cancel your IPO.
And even if you somehow make it to the public  
markets, Chinese equities have 
been performing terribly for years. 
It's a good reminder of how easy it is to 
completely wreck an innovation landscape that  
depends on risk-taking investors.
Hearts and minds. 
In China, liberal pro-Western voices 
are often censored or shouted down. 
If I was a U.S. president and I wanted to win 
hearts and minds in China, here's what I'd do. 
In every single speech where I'm talking 
about China, I'd make a conspicuous  
effort to compliment Chinese people, 
Chinese values, and Chinese culture. 
I'd talk about how my Chinese 
staffers are the smartest,  
hardest-working people I've ever worked with.
And this honestly is already probably true. 
I'd talk about how my daughter is 
obsessed with ancient Chinese dresses. 
I'd talk about how I'm learning 
Mandarin in my free time. 
And I'd have these live aw-shucks 
conversations in Mandarin. 
These clips would go viral on Bilibili and TikTok. 
And they'd probably stay up because 
it's just a weird thing to censor. 
The CCP might even think that these 
displays of affection aggrandize them. 
But in reality, showing our admiration for the 
Chinese people who genuinely are fucking killing  
it everywhere where they're not held down by 
communism undermines the central narrative of the  
regime: That the West is hell-bent on holding the 
Chinese people back; that we have no respect or  
understanding of their culture; and that the CCP 
is a necessary bulwark against these imperialists. 
On travel Noah Smith has a good 
blog post about what travel is  
good for and what it isn't good for.
You're not going to learn that much about  
the risk of a war or the state of the AI race by 
gazing at skylines and chatting up taxi drivers. 
For the answers to questions like 
that, you need to be talking to the  
princelings and the researchers and the CEOs.
But if you have access to those people anyways,  
you don't exactly need to go to China.
You can just hop on a Zoom call with these people. 
And for what it's worth, that should update you in 
favor of doing more Zoom calls, not less travel. 
By the way, I did realize after going to 
China that I should have just hopped on Zoom  
calls with all my listeners in China because the 
nature of the difficulty of accessing my content  
in China apparently has self-selected 
for a really high-quality audience there. 
And by the way, if you are in China, 
I would be keen to hear from you. 
My email is hello@dwarkeshpatel.com.
And look, I'm keen to learn more  
about AI, but not just AI.
I want to better understand how  
the political system works, how exactly does Xi 
Jinping make decisions, and especially what we can  
learn from that about how decisions will be made 
at the brink of AGI, about tech investments and  
nationalizations and arms races and so on.
And I'd also be keen to hear if you have  
suggestions for China guests for 
people to interview on my podcast. 
So what is the point of travel? I think for me 
the answer is that you start asking questions  
about the places you visit that you wouldn't 
even think to ask about the place you live. 
And another thing I noticed was more personal.
Two weeks of being AFK and of having the excuse  
of using a burner phone to ignore all my messages 
and emails just helped clear the cache of thoughts  
I had about hiring and growth and sponsorships and 
logistics and gave me the opportunity to just let  
my shower thoughts drift towards the random rabbit 
holes that traveling through China spawned for me. 
And it's a good reminder that 
what's lacking in life is not time. 
If you're working on the right thing, you can 
advance leaps and bounds in just eight hours. 
But if you're just clearing the slog, you can 
spend a whole lifetime staying in the same place.