中華民族是否偉大復興了?我不知道。我只想我的孩子吃一口安心飯。最近一位母親給孩子買了一個粽子吃,結果從粽子裡吃出了帶血的創可帖。 这并不是什么小作坊的粽子而是来自全国拥有3000多家连锁店的上海行业巨头来一份 The food safety issue in China has been discussed for a long time From the old "DiGou oil", "Beef tendon", "3G QingAn" "Dou Nai Fen" To what happened in recent years "Eating rat's head in the school cafeteria" "Use the oil can to mix with the oil" "Kunming school smelly meat incident" etc. CCTV will broadcast several companies at the 315 party meeting every year Then, if there is a surprise attack, But in the end, it's not over After that, we will still hear from the news What happened again? What is the security of food that hurts people? It turns into black beans in the liquid solution You can see how much you want I think it's very fast What's this? secret (The secret of the black bean) (The black bean is black) It's very good It's black in the first glance It comes out immediately How much do you want Not to mention the time we ferment That way we have a high cost of time The cost of labor is too high Is this dye? Dye What is this water? This is a rouge Ruge used to color According to the national standards, raw meat is not edible at all Stop it  中國的食品安全問題就像一部不斷循環不斷重複的老電影我們對劇情都已經很熟悉了 發生問題 公眾憤怒 官方說要嚴厲查處調查三個月後公布說是個別事件 已經嚴厲懲罰相關人員和企業之後公眾逐漸淡忘然後沒過多久 另一起事件又再發生公眾再一次憤怒 如此周而复始中共每一次的调查结果基本都是一个结论大环境没问题这只是个别的害群之马社会很安全国家很棒党很伟大结束 But let's think about it When a person's body has various problems Today, the lung problem has been cured Tomorrow, the kidney problem Tomorrow, the kidney problem The day after tomorrow, the heart problem Then it must be the fundamental function of this body It's the problem of the entire immune system 國家也是一樣的如果說同樣的問題一而再再而三的在不同省份不同企業不同產品上爆發這就必定不是個別事件而是一個系統性的問題 How many Chinese-made tables and tables were broken by He Ma this time? Wu Kang eggs are cut out to sell medicine Mi Hou Tao Peng Da Ji Chao Biao There are pesticide residues in the Kuala Lumpur Recently, the security of food in He Ma has been continuous The anger of consumers on social platforms has been spreading for days The black cat platform shows that in the past 30 days The number of complaints related to He Ma is 464 Most are related to food In addition to Wu Kang eggs, fruit, produce, dairy products, meat, etc. The reporter turned back to Handan and saw that in a pig transfer station in Wu Village The workers forced the pigs to water the water pipe The live pig made a terrible noise And the workers gave the pigs needles The informant said it was a kind of closed needle called Asopen The effect is that the pig quickly absorbs the water that is poured into it At the same time, the wooden board changes in size and the weight increases In a slaughterhouse in Taiping Village, some dead pigs were red, and the smell was horrible The informant said that it was a long time ago Terrible! Transfer station slaughterhouse On this series of chains, the business has no bottom line for business management Even lost the basic knowledge of being a person And the case of sick pigs, dead pigs, and water pigs Why do the informants know that the media also know But can grow without fear (Memories) So cool So beautiful It's your house What's going on? Oh my goodness The poison on the ground This is a good dog It is the dog of this village This is a dog of this village It is the dog of this village Whether it is dirty or clean The champion should be clean So here comes the problem Over the past 20 years China has made a lot of progress in many fields Rockets can rise above the sky, aircraft carriers can go down the sea High-rise buildings can rise above the ground, high-rise bridges can cross the sea The corrupt officials have caught one after another Even the problem of air pollution has been solved Why can't food safety problems be solved? Today we will talk about this topic 就在剛過去的一周,又發生了兩起食品安全事件你不一定都聽說過啊因為話題也沒上熱搜一來,大家都懂的,這類新聞官方不喜歡讓你看二來,說真的,大家都已經麻木了 In addition to the "Blood-sweat" sticker, there are many other more influential things. The most famous Chinese medicinal herbs and good soil, Anhui Bozhou, was exposed by reporters. In many so-called health tea bags, there are no medicinal herbs at all. All are leaves and wood chips. You think drinking health tea is actually all garbage. 30多塊錢的養生包成本只有一塊多利潤幾十倍這個生意真的輕鬆啊都不用造假樹葉木渣土渣隨地就有反正底線只有一個吃了別當場死人即可 We have a lot of people who work here. We can get a little money by breaking the wall on the side of the road. You can do a lot of things for you. We don't have the lowest price. Only the lowest price. We can get a little money when it's cheaper. You can't break the bricks or the bricks. Can you work? Nothing at that time. After I finished talking, I jumped into the car and got here. The day is over. What else? It's the day of the dead. We have to fight for 30 days. We can't live a day without fighting. Don't think that this is only affecting the local residents Bozhou is a medicine collection 3D with thousands of levels It is for the whole country There is a saying in the industry "If you don't have Bozhou, you can't get Bozhou" Some big medicine stores that you are familiar with For example, Beijing Tongren soup, Yunnan Baiyao, etc. Many of them are imported from here 我為什麼要講這件事並不是因為這件事有多惡劣說真的在中國這些年來的食品安全事件當中這真的不算什麼畢竟樹葉和木渣吃不死人但這個案例可以讓我們看到中國食品安全無法根出的一個重要原因什麼原因呢 Let's continue to watch Because I haven't talked about the most scary part of this case The fake health tea bag incident was investigated by a reporter of Lightning News After collecting all the evidence The reporter then called the local market supervision management office as a consumer 結果執法人員居然不是要調查而是當起了核事勞 What do you want? We just want you to find out his fake behavior They are all fake information, you know? You know what? I'll call him Let him communicate with you Let him talk to you OK? Not accompany me I want us to find out his fake behavior Including the manufacturer behind them Why are you waiting for us to call? Let's find this person first Isn't it obvious? They already knew about this and they are very skilled in handling these matters As the market supervision and management officer their approach is to arrange for you to negotiate and compensate for private matters It's a great opportunity to make a fortune Actually, it's not the first time that Anhui Bozhou, which is known as the capital of medicine, was discovered to be fake 2024年的315晚会就已经曝光过了后来包括新京报、中国青年网等大媒体也报道过伯卓市场假冒伪劣产品层出不穷2023年伯卓中药材抽检不合格数量为551批次同比2022年上升20%不合格药材品种达208种 結果呢我說了嘛315也就是做個樣子一頓操作猛如虎最後罰款250一年多以後的今天不也還是一切照舊嗎你看廠家那麼肆無忌憚的對記者自爆黑料說明他們根本不怕查反正查到了最多下架產品換個店名繼續幹 So, the reason why China's food security problem can't be improved at all is because the local supervision department, which should be the first line of the people, they don't know, they don't check, they don't catch but they don't want to check, they don't want to catch So the question is, why don't they want to catch? 你可能以為我要說官商勾結利益綁定什麼的那你就小瞧老周了這不是那種一般的頻道官商勾結的問題那當然也是有的但那只是表層問題其實還有更深層次的因素 We should also look at the facts through the phenomenon Let's look at another case that shocked the whole country half a year ago The smelly meat incident at Yunnan School Kunming is a family of many parents who have been teaching Changfeng School Because the child has been pregnant for a long time Suspecting that the school can't eat soup 2024年10月16日几名家长直接冲进学校厨房结果发现了一盆盆已经发臭的煮肉正准备下锅  This incident made the people angry is the way the school handle it The school held a communication conversation with the parents The school launched a chef to apologize to everyone Actually everyone knows he is a "cook" But a female vice president standing behind has been laughing and angry 而面對家長的憤怒有一位校方代表說 Some people don't want to solve the problem. Look, there are still things to do. There are still many tricky questions. Tricky questions? [The people who are not able to solve the problem are the ones who are not able to solve the problem.] Let's fry the meat first. Still tricky. I don't know who is in the group. Now there are people who are threatening these people in the group. 你們所有的孩子家長都有黨牌在這個學校裡面這是12樓的危險部的家長讓家長不要發言這個才是水法就把他揪出來到最後家長還沒有發問完畢下午5點學校下課淩盛一詳一個教育局局長宣布會議結束跟學校董事長態度傲慢的單手插兜離場 From 3 o'clock to now, it's almost two hours. Today our meeting is temporarily over. Thank you. (The last question, please wait a moment.) (The last question, please wait a moment.) (Do you want to go?) (I want to go!) (I want to go!) 你不能假冒天了那么当这件事冲上热搜之后官方肯定是要介入的啦反正还是那套老掉牙的官话吧什么严肃处理 责令整改 局一反三 加强监管巴拉巴拉大家都已经听腻了 最终事情的处理结果就是长逢学校校长和法人免职学校罚款十万元但有家长指出其实这个校长本来2024年年底就要正常退休的了现在只是顺水退周至于承包食堂的企业被责令停止营业懂行的人都懂这根本无所谓的同一班人马另外注册一家公司还是一样继续干 你要知道现在中国学校食堂的承包有多乱这就是一个很典型的案例负责长逢学校食堂的这家公司名叫云南润声物业服务有限公司原本是搞物业和房地产的这家公司是在2024年2月份才刚刚成立的然后随便改了一个经营范围就可以负责管理学校食堂给孩子们供餐了你说这有多可怕 一家物業公司剛成立半年後就能夠中標學校食堂的共產四個人都懂這當中有多少貿易但在調查報告中卻完全沒有提及這種事關學校兒童食品安全的事故發生在任何一個西方國家那必定有人要牢底坐船 But in the end, no one was sentenced to death in this case. The official informed and apologized. The community officials were exempted from several companies' fines and shut down. It's over. A few days later, the attention of the public was transferred to which star was cheating. Nezha's ticket office is shaking. China shocked the United States again. Until the next time, there was a child who was poisoned. 這不我視頻做到一半前天又發生了一起毒奶粉事件 我去问你那卖出去我到时候你吃到它卖了吃下去就定不了我问一句卖哪去啊是坑小孩还是坑老人呢街上的良心肯定是被狗吃了但我们的监管又在哪打盹呢生活榜5月20号的报道一名买家买了从扫桩发货的三万桶俄罗斯奶粉但是冲爆之后发现气味味道都不对要求退货销售方直接交底这玩意一桶成本就2块34全是米粉你没听错和矿泉水一个价格的奶粉正在往咱们老百姓家里搬 三万桶啊不是三桶三十桶这么大的量流向市场得有多少家庭可能遭殃呢现在最该问的一句话是三万桶劣质奶粉流向市场监管部门早干嘛去了从生产到流通至少要经过原料材加工制造仓促运输批发零售等多个环节 每個環節都該有監管的影子舉個簡單的例子生產奶粉需要食品生產許可證這些奸商的廠子有沒有自製產品有沒有經過檢驗檢疫包裝上的成分表生產日期保質期是不是造假要是監管部門定期抽檢就算不能杜絕所有問題至少能把三萬桶的大貨扼殺在萌芽狀態但現實是這麼大批量的劣質產品居然能一路暢通無阻地賣出去 現在呢出了事才曝光早前監管體系的漏洞到底出在哪呢三路奶粉事件以後國家專門修改了相關法規明確全程監管風險監測添加等細節還廢除了食品免檢制度可早裝這事呢分明是老問題重演一遍就如我在視頻開始的時候說的中國的食品安全問題就像一部不斷重複的老電影 所以我們就看到了在中國就算你被查到了生產的食品有問題哪怕毒害的是兒童你所需要付出的代價是非常小的從博走假藥材的事我們就看到了從根本上來講地方政府和官員根本就不願意去打擊這些企業為什麼呢問題就出在中共官員的考核機制上 我請問大家一個問題任何一位中共領導他們的工作做得好不好是由誰來決定的民主國家的政府官員他們的KPI考核人是人民他們的工作做得好不好最後是由人民用選票來打分的 But the candidate for KPI is his superior leader The county committee secretary did a good job, the municipal committee said it The municipal committee secretary did a good job, the provincial committee said it The provincial committee secretary did a good job, Xi Jinping said it In this entire assessment chain, there is no connection with the Chinese people So to pass the exam in the first level, you need a very easy to maximize assessment index Under such a system, what is the assessment index of the CCP officials? Since the reform and opening up, the most important and intuitive two assessment indexes are GDP growth and tax So this is the secondary motivation that drives almost every level official It can be said that it is what they care about GDP是怎么来的?经济活动经济活动当中最重要的一部分就是企业生产消费者购买那税收怎么来的?企业赚取利润之后上缴一部分给政府也就是说在中国的很多地方企业就是地方政府官员的衣食父母这是直接影响他们政績的 Especially in smaller areas, the larger companies are more influential. For example, in Bozhou, GDP of this city is more than 2,500 billion. According to the data released by the city government in Bozhou, the total amount of Chinese medicine trade in 2024 is up to 1,553 billion, which accounts for 60% of the total GDP. If you are the Deputy Secretary of the Provincial Committee of Bozhou I ask you Is it more important for you that there are no people who vote? Or is it more important for you to contribute a lot of taxes every year And these pharmaceutical manufacturers who create GDP numbers? If you are a real and serious manufacturer of fake medicine you will definitely kill a lot of companies and those companies that don't die after they don't have the money to sell 30 dollars the profit will be greatly reduced which means this year your debt will not only decrease GDP but also your tax will be greatly reduced how do you explain to your superior leaders? People? People are old friends. Can people decide whether I will be promoted or not? So, everyone, this is the most fundamental reason why the food security issue in China cannot be solved. Because the political and political issues between enterprises and local officials are deeply bound. So I have said many times that many problems in China are basically returned to this system. This is a system that does not fall under the rule of the people. Then the interests of the people will naturally not be placed in the first place. Western and democratic officials are not necessarily higher than Chinese officials. But it is not the people who decide whether they can stay in that position It is not their superior but the people So the interests of the people are naturally placed in the first place This is the most basic humanity For example, two months ago After Trump launched the customs tax war to the world California's governor Gavin Newsom announced to the world California does not tax Please continue to trade with California Can you imagine that in China? The US governor is equivalent to the governor of China Why does a governor dare to directly fight against the president? Which Chinese governor dares to openly defy Can directly decide their destiny But the person who can decide Gavin Newsom's professional destiny Not the president of the United States But the votes in the hands of the people of California 所以民主國家的政府官員比中共的官員更在乎人民的生死並不是因為誰比誰的品格更高尚的問題而是不同制度所決定的自然結果 Finally, let me share my personal experience in China. In 2008, I went to Shanghai to work in the US. The air pollution problem in China was very serious. Shanghai was better, Beijing was worse. The sky in Shanghai and Beijing was greyish almost all year round. The pollution problem was very serious. I don't know if the audience in the wall still remember The weather forecast of that year contained the value of PM2.5 PM2.5 is the fine particles in the air And the government also has relevant regulations PM2.5 is more than a certain concentration Schools also have to stop classes Or students can't do outdoor activities I remember the group of foreigners working in China The first topic at the gathering was basically discussing air pollution Which air purifier is better? A month before the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games To leave a good impression to the world The government forced Beijing and surrounding factories to stop working So Beijing people rarely saw the sunny sky during the Olympic Games At that time, the circle of foreigners was called the Olympic Sky 當年中共就誓言要解決空氣污染的問題那個時候就有很多人保持一種懷疑的態度但當時我就跟朋友們說了我認為中共能解決這個問題食品安全我不敢說但空氣污染他們肯定能解決因為雖然中共領導以及他們的家人可以吃到特供食品但他們無法呼吸到特供空氣 So you see, the air quality in China's big cities is not particularly good But it has improved a lot In 2013, Beijing's average AQI air quality was 124.9 But after 2019, it can remain below 85% 但恰恰就是因為空氣污染的問題能夠得到遏制當我們看回食品安全問題的時候才真正的讓人感到悲哀因為沒有能力解決是一回事但能解決卻因為事不關己而不肯用力去解決那才是真正的悲哀 About the special food in the South China Sea If you have any doubts, I don't have to tell you This is no longer a secret There are many related documents inside and outside the walls When the new China was established Mao Zedong, under the guidance of the Soviet Union, set up a country farm in Beijing Later, the scale gradually increased and opened two more A giant farm and a Yuchuan Mountain farm These are the three major special supply farms in Beijing It was owned by the Central Police Department The whole wall was surrounded by the gate These farms are all planted with the best vegetables The best-fed chicken, pig, cow and sheep The most important thing is safety No pesticides, technology and harshness Only the leaders of the South China Sea, their families and their children can enjoy the special food provided in these three big farms. Later, a so-called No. 34 Supply Department was established. In the early 1960s, Beijing Donghua Gate No. 34 became a special supply point for the Chinese Communist Party leaders to provide cigarettes, wine, pastries and sweets. 门口指标是这34号供应部全城市中央领导生活物资特别供应处只为副部级以上的官员服务有个前警卫局的副局长在回忆录里透露说当年34号供应部里面的产品是应有尽有有外面看不到的茅台酒五粮叶特大的黄花鱼黑金崩大西瓜八分钱一斤各个像篮球那么大 Special products are also imported from abroad Famous brand home appliances, watches, perfumes, chocolates White Landy, whiskey, jewelry, etc. The top Russian fish sauce The Egan sauce from France It's already a very common thing here 各位要知道这可是在60年代啊那个时候的中国老百姓有多穷这一些特供品只能用极致奢华来形容60年代就这样了后来只能是越做越大到了近代特供不再是中南海的专利而是已经蔓延至四祥县各级官员都在利用他们的权力建立属于自己的当地的特供产品供应权 这一切代表什么呢?如果你是有权力的中共官员你和你家人的食品跟普通老百姓的食品是完全隔离开来的在这样的情况下食品安全问题怎么可能得到解决呢? We often say that if you want to ensure that the food in the school is safe, it is very simple to let the principal eat the food in the canteen with the students every day. So, in the same way, to solve the food safety issue in China, the Chinese Communist Party leaders should also eat the same food in the canteen with the people. In other words, only when the food eaten by the Chinese Communist Party leaders and the food eaten by the people are not treated differently in any way,食品安全問題才有可能得到根本的解決 最后还是说一些我的感想我认为奸商哪都有各行各业都有为了赚钱而去铤而走险搞旁门左道的人但是在食品上做手脚我觉得是属于最泯灭人性的诟荡之一尤其是对那些跟儿童相关的食品做手脚那些跟兒童相關的食品做手腳 我不知道有時我有一種感覺有些中國人在做惡的時候似乎是沒有底線的壞人哪個國家都有但所謂道義有道世上有很多哪怕是殺人不眨眼的黑社會頭子和毒梟他們也有他們堅守的一些底線比如絕不傷害女人和孩子 中國的壞人為什麼就不能說OK 我想賺錢但是毒害嬰兒奶粉的事 我不能做OK 我想通過爛肉腐肉賺錢但送進學校讓學生吃 我幹不出來必須得幹 我寧可送到政府大樓的食堂裡 There is another most terrible thing about food safety. It is a very hidden problem. Its harm is often slow. For example, cancer, slow development, immunity, damage, etc. This is a long process. It is not easy to cause a public crisis immediately. What we see in the news today are those that can explode immediately For example, poisoning, vomiting, and diarrhea But there must be a lot of long-term and hidden damage behind it that we can't see Manager, come and look Is this the same condition? Is this how you put it? This is the storage, right? What is this? It has a leather belt, it has a table Leather belt? Leather belt This is all the ingredients in the table, right? You are not only adding this kind of ingredients The first in breakfast sales The most common thing is our old people's handkerchiefs There are many more This is a toilet, right? And you tell me what's in here Chicken Why are you near the chicken here? This is the toilet Don't you know the risk of pollution? No, that's all the air conditioning You can't use the air conditioning here Tell me what this is This is our friend today How do you determine that he is your friend? It's just that there's no one to do it. Are you sure you won't dig it out again? No, no, no. Aren't you a domestic farm? Have your company ever done any kind of training with you? This is the advantage of digging. There's a hole. This is the disadvantage of digging. I'm here, they're here. The whole body is a team. This is the second floor. This is the second floor. I'm sorry. (I am not sure if I can eat it or not) The only thing that can be found out about these take-out dim sum is just a foot of ice You won't get sick immediately after eating it So most Chinese people will not know what they are eating every day 而最可恨的是即便食品安全狀況已經如此嚴重了中共依然想要粉飾太平2024年中國食品安全狀況研究報告的結論是近5年來我國食品安全狀況良好監督抽檢合格率始終保持在97%以上的水平 總之就是想告訴你這一切又一切被發現的案例都是個別的害群之馬大環境沒問題國家很棒共產黨很偉大所謂哀莫大於心死最令人感到悲哀的是現在每當還有什麼食品安全問題的新聞曝光出來的時候你去看看評論區裡人們似乎都已經習慣到麻木了絕望了不反抗了 他們都在說你不需要再告訴我什麼不能吃了你就告訴我吧究竟什麼才能吃