[Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. Thank you everybody for being here. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. We had a lot to talk about. We got a green premarket which is very nice to see. Hopefully that green pre which is continuing from the overnight markets yesterday can continue into the actual market open and we're going to find out in about 45 minutes. Uh we got some China headlines that are relatively bullish which is why I think the markets are actually green in the pre and we're going to get some more updates on that China stuff throughout the entire day. So hopefully that stuff is not as bad going into Seoul where President Trump will be meeting with Xi Jinping, the Chinese president on November 1st. By the way, uh Trump might be meeting with Kim Jong-un on November 1st as well. So that that was a new update we found out about today. So we're going to see if that happens. President Trump was the only president in American history that actually met with the uh dictator in North Korea uh back in 2018. So, that might happen again going into the end of October, early November. We got Tesla and Netflix this week. It's going to be a big one, and we're going to see what happens with Tesla and Netflix. We'll do a little bit of an earnings preview and see what we've got going on there. We had a bunch of different updates for some of these tech stocks in the pre-marketing, including some uh upgrades on Apple, these iPhone 17 pre-order numbers, and then actual order numbers are starting to come in, and it's pretty damn juicy. You got one firm even raising Apple to 275 and another firm raising them to 310. first $300 up here on Apple that we've seen in a long time. So, we'll talk about that. We'll go through some of those details and then we'll talk about Amazon because Amazon had some issues in the uh in the pre-market, not just the stock, but the actual company itself and that affected Robin Hood, Coinbase, Snapchat, all the companies that rely on AWS. So, we'll talk about that and keep going from there. All right, thank you everybody for being here. Let's get started. We got a lot to get into. Hassets on CNBC right now. We'll get to him in a second. He's talking about this government shutdown. Hopefully he's saying something positive about the shutdown. He does have the quote right here that I I think the shutdown is likely to end sometime this week, which is kind of what I think a lot of people were expecting. Uh and if the shutdown doesn't end, the White House will look at stronger measures. Hopefully, it ends up uh getting fixed in the next coming days. Yes, happy Diwali to everybody as well. For those that do celebrate it, Indian holiday, I am going to be going back home tonight to uh see some family for Dvali. So, if you are Indian and you do celebrate it, happy Dvali to everybody as well. It's kind of a what is it? It's it's it's I mean it's basically a holiday that se uh that that celebrates good over evil if I had to sum it up. I mean there's a lot of backstory to what good over evil means but at its core it's a celebration of good over evil. So that's what we got on the Bali. All right, so let's get started. I think we got to start with this China news because this is the most bullish stuff we've had over the past couple of days and that is why the markets are green in the pre. Uh Trump last night basically calmed down a lot of concerns when it came to deescalation around um China and this was stuff that you know the market really was looking for and as a result of getting it I think that's why we are seeing this green momentum. S&P 500 667 if we can get 670 maybe 673 which is alltime highs is not that crazy to achieve. Tesla's up 1%. Palanteer's up 1%. Hoodie up 3%. Google's up. Grab's up. Reddit's up. Amazon's up even with Amazon's issues in the pre-market. Meta's up. Salesforce, AMD, SoFi, a lot of this based on what Trump said last night uh around China. And what did he say? Well, basically he said that he wants to resolve things and he doesn't want to get into this massive trade war with China.
>> Uh now they're paying an unbelievable amount of money to the United States. They probably can't pay that much. And I'm okay with that. We can lower that, but they have to do things for us, too. It's no longer a one-way street. Yeah.
>> What would you lower it to, do you think?
>> Depends. I mean, we'll have to see what they want. One of the penalties we have in because they're sending in fentinol, we have a 20%, as you know, a 20% tariff on that, but they'd be paying about 157% tariff, which is, you know, record setting type tariff. Uh, I don't want them to do that. I want to help China. I want to not looking to hurt China, but they have to give us things, too.
>> Mr. President,
>> as you can see right there, pretty bullish, right? I want to help China. I don't want to hurt China, but they have to give us some stuff, too. He also goes on to then talk about how he doesn't want to play the rare earth mineral game with China and he wants China to actually cooperate. China's also, you know, said over the past couple days that they are ready to work with the US and decoupling from them would be irrational. And then here's the biggest thing that happened that kind of went under notice over the weekend. This was Scott Bent talking, for lack of a better word, talking smack about one of the Chinese officials uh last week and then we have an update on what happened to one of those Chinese officials. B and C. Therefore, we had to do D. And that that's not true. Is there there was a low lower level trade person who was slightly unhinged here in August. Uh I think his name is Lee Lee Kangong. and uh you know threatening saying that the chi China would unleash chaos on the global system if the US went ahead with uh our docking fees for Chinese ships and uh this is clearly something that they were planning all along. I I think that things can deescalate that we we don't want to have to escalate. Uh we have things that are
>> I think things can deescalate. we don't want to escalate. And then last night, China's top trade negotiator, Lee, the guy that descent just mentioned, was removed as a permanent World Trade Organization representative. So, I mean, you're talking about some major progress. Not only is Trump saying we want to deescalate with China, then Bent who's calling out the quote unquote unhinged representative from China as one of their top rep one of their top trade negotiators. He gets removed as a permanent representative with the World Trade Organization. Meaning Bent just is not going to have to deal with this guy anymore. He's going to have to deal with someone who's probably uh a bit more reasonable. Yes, he got a black guy. Exactly. Maybe Bent had a had a role in getting this guy removed. But the point is it's deescalating and this is very very nice to see and as long as that continues to happen maybe this China scuffle that has been taking place over the past couple weeks is not that big of a deal and as a result that would be very good for markets. Uh CleanSpark getting an upgrade right here look at that 2183 up 11%. The headline right here is CleanSpark has hired a industry veteran in the AI compute space Jeffrey Thomas as the senior vice president of AI data centers. All right. So, Clean Sparks making the full-on pivot right here to a data center play outside of a Bitcoin miner. And I'm sure you know they will still engage in Bitcoin mining, but hiring someone from the industry to lead their AI compute data center businesses, that likely means you're getting a bit of a pivot. So, CleanSpark right there, that is up 11%. Again, a lot of the Bitcoin miners had a crappy week last week. Cipher is up 6%, Terolf is up, Bit Farm's up, Hive is up, Marathon's up, Riot's up, Galaxy up, and then IN is also up in the premarket. All of them getting some love as the broader market goes green and the S&P 500 up about 041%. Micron by the way going crazy. They got an upgrade to 245 this morning. I know not everyone there's not a majority of people that invest in semiconductors that are in Micron but there's a decent chunk. Micron right they're up 4%. I mean it's not the hottest semiconductor name but it is one of those names that has developed an audience and you know this thing was at 105 eight months ago. Now it's at 210. So not too bad. We are seeing some more momentum there. and that is likely not slowing down. Let's transition over to Hasset, see what he's saying about the shutdown, see if we can get some updates on that and then we'll get into uh some headlines around Nvidia has been very active throughout this process. But it's also his position that this is a thing that the Senate needs to work out. Uh a lot of our friends in the Senate have said that it was just bad optics for Democrats to open the government before the no kings rally and that now there's a shot that this week things will come together and very quickly the moderate Democrats will move forward and get us an open government at which point we could negotiate whatever policies they want to negotiate with regular order. Now, I was very pleased to see that my friend Senator Shaheen from New Hampshire, a a very, you know, soundminded Democrat, came out and supported opening the government on Friday. So, it means that there sort of cracks in the Schumer armor. I think the Schumer shutdown is likely to end sometime this week. But, I can tell you that if it doesn't, if it doesn't, if the story that we've been basically hearing from moderates that look, we just can't do it in front of the no Kings rally. If that ends up not being true, then I think that the White House is going to have to look very closely along with Russ vote at, you know, stronger measures that we could take to bring him to the table.
>> So, there would be negotiations about what to do. We're we're running out of time before November 1st. There would be negotiations about what to do with with the uh the pandemic u super subsidies for Obamacare. Well, well, that again is an issue for the Senate that you know we the Democrats passed that law. They uh it was in an emergency for COVID and they ended it now because it was such an expensive law and so it's the Democrats policy. It's the Democrats shut down and it's the Schuber shutdown and really the Senate needs to figure it out.
>> But it it affects you know real people and people in red states and I mean we're we're subsidizing healthcare for a lot of but like it or not that's just the position we're in. So there are certain people that either wouldn't have health care or where the the premiums would go up so much. And not not to say that it's uh you know not Obamacare's fault because there's a lot of flaws, but do you see something where there would be some fixes put in to get Republicans to agree to do that?
>> Again, that's up to the Senate to negotiate. But if you look at the expiring subsidies, you know, the vast majority of people, certainly lowincome people, aren't affected at all. It's just that uh the the policy was expanded to people up to four times the poverty level and so you get people who have you know much much higher incomes than were intended to be predicted by
>> All right. So Hassid giving us a little bit of an update right there on the idea of this government shutdown ending. I mean so far the market hasn't really cared that much about it. So, if it ends up lasting as long as Kalshi thinks it can last, which is, you know, up until November 16th, they're giving it a uh a 30% chance right there, then, you know, that would be pretty aggressive. But if it is resolved this week, then I do think that would be more bullish than not. The question is, will we end up seeing that happen? And and the other thing that's really important about this, Khi now has 40 days on the forecast. The other thing that's interesting about this is, you know, we still don't have a lot of government data. Now, we will be getting CPI. That's going to be happening on Friday. So, we'll at least be getting some gauge of inflation. And that's going to be happening a couple days before the FOMC meeting on October 29th where more likely than not, we're getting another 25 basis point cut. But having that CPI definitely would be important. Having some job data would really be important. And, you know, hopefully if we can get the shutdown avoided or at least resolved, we're going to start to get a lot more of that data. But, we're going to see throughout the week if that ends up happening as well. real quick as well. I said this on the uh Market Future show last night, but just want to announce it here. Uh Cactus Jack has officially joined AK Media Fulltime. So uh a lot of you guys probably already know him every day in the chat. He's he's basically like our personal Bloomberg terminal. And um yeah, he's joining full-time. So this is our first extension of AK Media. Going to have someone who helps me basically get all the news that I need every single day, pre-show, post show, during the show. and uh you know he's already been doing it for like a year so I just asked do you do you want to do it full-time if you're already gonna be here and he said yeah let's do it. So there he is. Whenever you see a post from Cactus Jack you can assume it's more likely true than not. I mean I'm sure there's some things he'll possibly get wrong maybe because the source is wrong. Uh but more likely than not he will be up to date and accurate on pretty much every piece of breaking news. So if you see an earnings update or a price target upgrade you can trust that you're getting it from a reliable source. All right, cool. So, that's what we got from Mr. Cactus. Let's go to BMR. I mean, Tom Lee, this guy continues to buy the damn dip. He bought 203,000 Ethereum over the weekend. Tom Lee, the crypto market saw one of its largest deleveraging events last week, and this put downward pressure on ETH prices. Open interest for ETH sits at the same level as seen on June 30th of this year. Given the expected super cycle for Ethereum, this price dislocation represents an attractive riskreward. We acquired 200,000 Ethereum tokens over the past week, pushing our ETH holdings to 3.24 million, 2.7% of the total supply. We are now more than halfway towards our initial pursuit of the alchemy of 5%. Most people don't even think he's going to stop at 5%. B Riley with a $90 upgrade on BMR thinks they're going to get to 7.2% by the end of 2026. And it makes sense because why would they stop, right? like they're probably not going to stop just because the price of Ethereum goes up, especially if they're able to continue diluting at a premium to their net asset value. So, look, I mean, if you're on the Ethereum bandwagon, if you believe in it, I did do a deep dive on BMR. This was one of the stocks that was on the Substack. BMR and Duolingo were the two stocks that we uh that we did a deep dive on. And you know, if you read through the deep dive, it's it's it's trying to get to a better understanding of the mechanisms and mechanics of how a digital asset treasury should operate, but also if Ethereum is an asset worth operating on. And if you believe in those two things, then you got to be ready for the volatility of the ride, but the ride might end up rewarding people long term. Bit mine right there, 5.52% got all the way to 47 last week as Ethereum took a hit. So, I mean, a lot of this really is dependent on Ethereum. And if Ethereum can stay above 4,000 where it is right now, we should hopefully be able to stay in that uh in that $50 range. So that's what you have on Bitine and that's what you have on Ethereum. Now again, last week Devon Ryan initiated a price target on $50 on SSB, which is one of the competitors for Bitine. And you know, I I don't know that much about ESB, but I do know that if Wall Street analysts are starting to get bullish on ETH treasuries, that's a good thing. And that's definitely not something that we should ignite. By the way, FG Nexus, which is another Ethereum treasury, they lost their premium to NAV. They were now trading below Nav, same as ESB. Bitmine is one of the only digital asset treasuries outside of Micro Strategy that actually trades at a premium above NAV. And um these guys initiated a $200 million buyback. So, Bitmine already has a billion dollar buyback if they trade below NAV. The whole point is to not get below NAV, but these guys initiated a buyback for if they do get below NAV, which they are below below NAV. Again, it's just I wouldn't buy anything outside of the winners in the space. And I think the winners are BMR and probably Micro Strategy for Bitcoin. I think a lot of the other treasuries have a lot of different issues and raising capital is one of those issues. You need to be able to effectively do it and I think BMR is doing this at scale. ETHZilla, I don't know what's going on with them. They were supposed to have some special meeting a week ago and I don't even know what the outcome of that meeting was, but oh, they did a reverse split. Oh, that's probably why they had they had to do it. 1680. This thing was like $4, right? Yeah, they probably split. Again, you got to pick the winners in the space and I think BMR, especially with Tom Lee, is going to be one of those winners. Bit mine right there, 5251 as we're green in the pre-markets. All right, let's talk about Nvidia. So, Nvidia, actually, let's do Amazon before we do Nvidia. So, what happened to Amazon in the pre-markets? Well, AWS got shut down, and it got shut down bad. the northeast sector of the country that runs on AWS uh basically fell apart. And I was sleeping when this happened. So, I woke up at like 5 a.m. and I saw the updates, but I wasn't like trading on the overnight markets on Robin Hood, so I didn't see like that much of the uh dismay that people had, but a lot of people were upset about it. Uh and they were upset about Coinbase, they were upset about Snapchat. So, it wasn't a specific issue to any of these companies. It was just AWS had a massive uh draw down. Now, we don't know exactly why it fell. Was it a bug? Was it a crowd start strike moment? Was it one of these things where it's like, you know, some engineer forgot to push an update? Like it lit literally, this has happened before where engineers, you know, forgot to push updates or do certain things and then the entire system collapses. So, we don't know the exact details of what happened other than it ended up going down and the memes are, you know, absolutely hilarious of of what ended up happening. I think the takeaway from this, it's now been resolved over the past like five hours, so it's not that big of a deal anymore. I think the takeaway from this is very simple, and I hate to be the guy to say it, but it is true. And I I was the same person who said this when CrowdStrike fell, and I bought a little bit. I should have bought a lot more during that time. Bad publicity on a company that literally runs the internet. At least half the internet shut off for a couple hours when AWS went down. It just shows you how much the world relies on Amazon. It's just that simple. So, uh, you know, the stock was red a little bit, now it's green. I know the stock has not really moved that much but at the end of the day if every major company on the planet or you know a significant portion of every major company is using AWS. I mean if the thing shuts down and the whole world shuts down because of whatever reason bug code you know what whatever maintenance it just goes to show how much the world needs AWS and needs Amazon and if they can show any acceleration in growth then I think the street will get back on board to the story and the stocking gets momentum. Amazon has quadrupled their operating income since 2021. 4x operating income, stocks up 12%. There is obviously a narrative issue with this stock and that's okay because that's when you want to buy, but narratives change and if narratives change quickly, then the stock prices can also change very quickly as well. Eric says this happens to them like every year and there are other options. Yeah, that is fair. Look, the bare case on this, I don't want to say it's it's fully bullish just because they went down and you saw you saw how much the world relied on them. the bare cases, people might leave and they might say, you know what, we can't, you know, whatever Robin's like, dude, we cannot rely on AWS going down. We're gonna have to go to GCP or something like that. Um, so that is the bare case. It's just, you know, if this has happened every year and they continue to quadruple operating income, it probably means that at the end of the day, the other alternatives just aren't good enough to get people to switch in a meaningful way. And that's what keeps Amazon at the top. 21408. Again, AWS acceleration, that's what you got to look like. I and again I don't want to say like I'm pounding the table on Amazon because we might have a crappy Q3 where AWS doesn't accelerate, margins go down a little bit because the tariffs and this stock is at 195. Like that is very possible. I would not be surprised if that happened quite frankly if we get under 200. That would be the opportunity to really buy and set up a position for 2026. Uh but I also think it could easily rerate to 230 240 by the end of the year if a narrative goes in the opposite direction. So I think that's the base case we have to be thinking about when it comes to when it comes to Amazon. Okay, Nvidia, what do we got going on? So, uh, Jensen and TSM made a pretty big announcement over the weekend and it was that they officially unveiled the first wafer for their Blackwell chip that was created in the United States.
>> This last week was a historic week. Uh, we manufactured the most advanced AI chips in the world in the most advanced fab in the world here in America for the first time. Uh all of this started with President Trump wanting to reindustrialize the United States. His terrorist was a pressing uh agent in making this possible at this at the at the speed that we're doing. And now at uh uh just in shortly after less than a year, we're now manufacturing the most advanced chips for AI here in the United States. This is just the beginning of it. uh with the partnership of the supply chain in Taiwan, TSMC is incredible partner in a strategic partner for the United States and in bringing manufacturing of the most in most critical sector of technology here to to United States. Uh this is just the starting point where after that with Foxcon, Amcor, Spill, uh Wistron, so many of our other partners, we're going to bring the entire supply chain of building AI infrastructure back here in the United States. By the end of uh the next uh three or four years, we'll probably manufacture, we're on on target to manufacture about half a trillion dollars of AI supercomputing technology to be installed here in the United States. Pretty cool stuff from Jensen. And obviously, you know, Trump loves hearing that the re-industrialization of semiconductors is beginning to happen in the United States. We did get the AMCOR mention, which is very nice. Not that many packaging companies that work as closely as AMC does with TSM and the fab that TSM have has in Arizona. 3215, right? They're up 2.75% for AMC. I mean, look, this is really bullish Nvidia and this is bullish the entire semiconductor ecosystem. Jensen goes on in that interview to basically say we are not in a bubble. We are in the beginning of the early cycles of capex and capex spend. If you believe Jensen, then you believe that this really is the beginning. If you don't believe it, then you think that all this capex spend is going to go for nothing. Essentially, these companies are spending hundreds of billions of dollars for no reason. If that's not the case, then a lot of that manufacturing comes back to the United States, creates a lot of jobs, and ultimately continues the capex cycle um at the rate that it's going at right now. Now JP Morgan came out with a report this morning and they said Nvidia CEOs Jensen Huang's prediction of AI capex growing from 600 billion to 3.4 trillion by 2030 is feasible. The bank expects the tech sector to fund it through operating cash flow, private equity, venture capital inflows, even with projected 1.6 trillion annual funding gap. Private markets could contribute to about 500 billion per year by 2030. And it looks like the private markets are ready to invest in this. I mean there was a company that raised a 133 million seed round in the AI space. They're building another foundation model particularly around spatial uh reasoning is kind of how they call it. So there's essentially an LLM for a specific sector of the market which a lot of these companies are going after and the harder ones kind of Vlad is doing this with mathematical super intelligence do require more capital. Uh so you're going to have that going on. You've obviously got the private markets funding OpenAI and Anthropic. Anthropic raising their revenue targets to 26 billion. They're doing five billion right now for next year. I mean like 26 billion in 2026 is pretty damn incredible. But the fact that the private markets are ready to be funded in this way is leading JP Morgan to believe that it's going to be possible. They estimate roughly 40% of new debt, 430 billion would come from bank loans and 60% from bond issuance. This is kind of what Oracle did with their corporate bonds a couple weeks ago. Even with this increase, the tech industry's net debt to cash flow ratio would rise only from.7 to 1.2, still below the global average. So, a lot of the people that are comparing this to 1999 saying that it's all funded through debt, it's like it's hard to say that when there's so much cash flow and so much of that cash flow being redirected in the places that need to be um allocated to when it comes to this capex and it looks like that's what the big tech companies are doing. Now JP Morgan did say you should be cautioned for energy infrastructure not financing as the next major bottleneck as the AI data center growth drives massive new power demand aka the energy stocks are likely going to catch a bid even if the financing of it is going to take some time for it to play out. So that is why you continue to see the energy names get the momentum that they get. Oaklo right here in the pre-markets up another 3% and a lot of those rare earth stocks are also pretty green as they were green in the overnight markets after going through you know relatively ugly red but you know that's bullish for Ian that's bullish for clean spark again if you have a thesis on these Bitcoin miners turn data centers or the nebuses or their core reeves of the world I mean your thesis is pretty strong the question is what valuation do you want to get into these guys and what is your timeline but the and you know not all of these guys are going to turn out to be winners but if there is way more demand than supply then you're going going to need a lot of residual demand going to some of the winners that are not as big of a winner as like a corewave, but they're still going to get some part of that market and that ultimately could help their stock price as well. Speaking of Nebius, uh there were some rumors this morning, Nebius, right? They're up 3%. Data center uh in Israel and as a result uh you got this right here. The idea is, well, Roman, the co-founder, posted this picture, and it looks like the company is preparing to announce the launch of one of its new data centers, most likely in the UK or Israel. There'll be 4,000 GB200s to begin the partnership uh in one of those new data centers. Again, just more and more expansion. Nebas, if they can get another one of those Microsoft deals, would be very bullish. Question is if that will end up playing out. SMCI, that one's going green in the pre-markets as well. Rumors of an XAI contract. Look at that. Wow. Up 5.4%. 4%. Uh so looks like that deal is or that rumor is coming out right now. SMCI talk of contract order from XAI circulating as per Bloomberg. Okay. I mean look, this is inevitable. Jason and Chris have been saying this for a while, which is that if we're going to sell more GPUs, you're going to need more server racks to be able to handle those GPUs. and Dell increasing their financial guidance double on the top and the bottom line last week was I think a signal for SMCI to eventually do the same. And so, you know, SMCI is not the the best stock in the world in terms of its margins for every incremental dollar it gets, but it likely will have to grow. Like the pure volume of the amount of server racks and liquid cooling technology they're going to be serving to these GPUs across the entire world has to grow. I mean, you it's them, Dell, and HP. So, and and we kind of saw this with Micron. You know, Micron was deemed as a commodity, was stuck at 100 for a while, and then demand went up, growth went up, they started showing results, and Micron completely rerated. So, if that does happen with SMCI, which largely hasn't moved that much since liberation day, that would be exciting. Meta right there, 723, Amazon 213, Reddit, that's up 3.3% back above 300 or 200. And then Palenteer 180 as well in the pre-markets, which is what we've got. All right, let's talk about some macro stats. So, first of all, last week we had some regional financial issues. Uh, Western Alliance and Zions reported a couple of faulty loans and that kind of sent some shocks to the system. Uh, here's a chart right here showing that regional banks are not breaking. If you look at credit issues tied to private credit funds, they're isolated while net interest income, credit losses, and capital look the strongest in years. And this is one of the charts that shows lending to non-d depository financials, as you can see right there, doesn't look like it's it's in a bad situation compared to historical averages that we've had with non-depository financials. The other thing that's really important about this is that the uh credit provision losses in Truist and a couple other banks that reported on Friday, they were great. They were way better than expected. Like way better. Like we're talking about 100 to $200 million less than what expected. It was very similar to to what JP Morgan and City Bank said. So I think the regional crisis again still continues to be isolated to a couple of banks that were that produced a couple of faulty loans. It is not endemic of the broader structure of private credit and as long as that's the case I think that is not going to be the bare case that breaks this bull market. I mean there's I think plenty of other things that could break this bull market versus the regional banks but it is something to care about because you know private credit is definitely something that could make things bad. It's just there's not enough evidence outside of, you know, one company or two companies showing that there are some issues. So, as a result of that, I don't think we should have too many problems with the regional banks. KRE, this thing was down 10% last week. It's up about 1%, recovered 3% on Friday. This one might be the opportunity if we're not going to have too many issues in the private private credit ecosystem. SoFi, also very bullish for SoFi. So, I decided I will be buying some SoFi before earnings. I don't own any SoFi right now. Um, I'm thinking 500 shares. And the simple logic is, well, I want to have fun if the stock goes up and I'll share in the misery if the stock goes down. I mean, no, in all seriousness, look, I think Tanner is right that there's going to be a record member quarter. I think those members are probably going to translate into net income that's higher than expected from the street. I think not has a chance to put up a 35% growth quarter. Street's expecting 29%. If they get to 40%, I think that'd be very bullish. And then finally, the banks are crushing it across the board outside of two regional banks. SoFi crushed it. I mean, SoFi will crush it because JP Morgan, Black Rockck, Morgan Stanley, etc. crushed it. SoFi is going to crush it on a smaller scale than those guys, but their rate of growth is going to be faster. It's gonna be better. And their underwriting is phenomenal. Not to mention cryptos coming back. I don't see the bare case on SoFi. I really don't like at this moment. I I don't see. And then you have rate cuts coming up. So, I think it's going to be a 500 share earnings yolo, but I I don't think we get that ugly of an earnings. And if the stock drops, then the stock drops for whatever reason. It would probably be a buy the dip if the earnings are good. But I think you're probably going to get another triple B and we shouldn't have that many issues. So, we're going to see what happens with SoFi, but that earnings will be happening over the next week. The bare case is that it rose 70% in three months, that is fair. If you want to make the bare case about valuation and price action, then 100%. But when a stock usually does that, that that that means that their next earnings has to be perfect. I'm not saying so far it's going to have a perfect earnings, but it doesn't feel like it's going to have the worst earnings in the world. And hopefully that can lead to some more momentum. Also, we were above 30 for a little bit, right? So, you know, maybe if it can normalize above that 30 going into rate cuts. Also, their earnings are a day before the Fed makes their decision. So, I mean, you get a good quarter and then you get rate cuts a day later. It could it could set up for something explosive, dude. It depends on how well not I mean the way this thing really gets up to 3540 is if AWS of fintech their Galileo product starts getting some more growth more than 10 12%. I don't think that's going to be this quarter but I think notto has some options to really give us a good quarter and if it does coinciding with the rate cuts I don't think that would be too bearish. Uh speaking of banks we do have one update on a bank that I did not know about. A lot of the French people in the audience might know about this company and even if you're not French, you know, if you if you're in Europe, uh BNP Parabos, which I'm probably saying the name wrong, had its worst day since March 2023. Was down 10% today. Why? A federal jury found the bank complicit in aiding genocide in Sudan by violating US sanctions, triggering the threat of large contingent liabilities and escalating legal risk. Of course, I said it wrong. Of course. Oh, I said it right. Parabis. Parabus. You don't pronounce the S. Oh, it's probably true. You You don't pronounce the It's French, right? But, uh, so, you know, you do have some global banks that are not having the best time in the world. But again, you know, the reason I'm bringing this up is like, is this a structural reason the banking sector isn't an issue? No. This is one bank that ended up financing something that they were not supposed to be financing. And as a result, you got a lot of customers. This is the biggest bank in France, by the way. You got a lot of customers saying, "Hey, like we don't want our money associated with this." And now you might have some issues in terms of people taking out their assets and leaving somewhere else. Is it something that collapses the banking system? No. Did Zions and Western Alliance last week in the United States collap the banking system, losing a billion dollars in market cap? No. So again, you don't have these massive China structural issues. You don't have these massive banking issues. You've got rate cuts coming up and then we're hopefully going to have a pretty damn good earnings going into this week with Tesla and Netflix and a variety of other companies. the the bullcase still looks pretty strong as choppy as it's been and as long as that bullcase has room to continue then I don't think it's going to be that aggressive going into going into the end of the year and I think quite frankly it's actually making this year uh or this cycle for outperformance way easier because now stocks aren't at all-time highs and you kind of need stocks to not be at all-time highs to you know get another leg up. So, we're going to see how that plays out as we get into the end the end of this earning cycle. Dude, you guys have a bunch of different pronunciations. Parabbe. I think that's the one. Peribe, right? Peribe. That's how you say it. But that is weird. I I I never knew about that bank. And you know, given all the stuff that happened with regionals, you know, you're seeing some more bank issues, you want to understand, is it an actual broader issue? And if it's not, then you know, it's not something that maybe too many people have to worry about, which is a good thing. Uh, all right, let's get into some other headlines right here. So, again, Apple Counterpoint Research said that Apple's iPhone 17 series outsold the iPhone 16 by 14% in its opening week. So, you got a bunch of different updates for Apple and getting some of those more price targets come in, which is very bullish to see. Uh, several media reports saying that Trump is going to be meeting with Kim Jong-un during Trump's Asia trip for the Apex Summit. By the way, for anyone who has not watched the 60-minute episode uh on CBS, the full 56 minutes of it with Jared Kushner yesterday and Steve Whitoff, I I would recommend listening to it. I listened to the entire thing last night and the way they described the diplomacy that was required to get Israel and Hamas and the Turks and the Egyptians to agree to some resemblance of a plan. Will that plan fully be executed over the next 5 years? And will we actually have peace in the Middle East? It's yet to be known. But for them to at least agree to some parts of it to get the war to come to a ceasefire, I mean it is quite a journey. Quite a journey of what they described. And um Jared Kushner was one of the pivotal figures that also allowed or or was you know incremental in making the Trump uh um Kim Jong-un meeting in 2018 happen. And in 2018, you know, Trump got a lot of [ __ ] for for for stepping over the border and meeting with Kim Jong-un because, you know, no American president ever did it. Um, my pers, and this is just my perspective, my perspective is like, hey, he got the job done. Like, at at some point, if you want to make any resemblance of peace across the entire world, you have to meet with these people. And, and it comes down to the idea of like, do we want to make a deal or not? There was this really good moment in the CBS uh special where the interviewer asked Jared Kushner uh when you guys asked Trump, "Hey, if Hamas wants to have a meeting, can we take a meeting with him?" What was his response? And Steve Whit was like, Trump said, "Of course, take the meeting." Why wouldn't you take the meeting? He's like, "If we have a chance to bring these hostages back home alive, why the hell would we not take that meeting?" And the reason it's so controversial is because the United States does not negotiate with terrorist organizations. Hamas is a terrorist organization. But you've got someone like Trump who's like, "Okay, sure, we don't negotiate with terrorist organizations, but these are 20 hostages that we can bring back to their families." I mean, like, like, if we have to take the meeting, take the damn meeting. And so, I think getting into the psychology of Trump, and this is why, you know, he might be wanting to meet with Kim Jong-un, why he's tweeting all these things about China setting up a hopefully stronger negotiation with Xi Jinping, is that at the end of the day, he wants to get a deal done. He wants to get a deal done in whatever way is possible to get a deal done. It's actually making listening to that 60-minute interview yesterday made me pretty optimistic that a China deal is going to get done in a meaningful way. And I think a lot of the back and forth about soybeans and cooking oil and all this nonsense, it is all just hooplot to eventually get to a deal. And I think the Chinese know this and Trump knows this as well. The stock market is just, you know, going to react to anything that happens whenever Trump says something. But I think we're going to get a deal. And if we get this deal done, you know, that's obviously going to be very, very good for the markets. And, you know, any level of peace in the Middle East is going to be good for the markets. Also, one of the questions they asked Steve Witoff is, are you guys working on a deal with Russia and Ukraine? Trump met with Zalinski on Friday. That was a productive meeting. He said he had a productive uh phone call with uh Putin. You know, the reason this matters for the stock market, if we can get some level of geopolitical stability across the entire world, whether it's in the Middle East or whether it's in Russia, Ukraine, I mean, that is going to aid to the bullcase going into the end of the year, as long as we have earnings growth as well. And if we get that earnings growth, that's not going to be too bad. Speaking of China, uh GDP growth is pretty damn strong. Take a look at this. China's GDP grew 5.2% in Q3. We got these numbers last night. While high-tech manufacturing expanded 9.6%, equipment manufacturing rose 9 7%. Industrial robotics output increased 30%, new energy vehicles 30% and 3D printing equipment 40.1%. Despite the weakest GDP growth in a year, China set its 5% annual target remains within reach. So the fact that China is able to put up 5% growth every year or every quarter and and potentially every year. You know, the United States is at 3.3 3.5%. China's also getting out of recession, so it's a little bit different. The United States has not really been in a recession, but it is good to see globally uh a country like China at least start to make some more progress on their GDP growth. And the other reason this is really important is because a lot of that GDP growth is coming because of the US consumer. And if they lose the US consumer, they do not want to go back to a recession because it's not going to be fun for them to be stuck in what they were stuck in over the past couple years. So it is good to see China getting a bit more momentum here and not have that much pain. Is Amazon th Amazon is this week their earnings? No, no, they're next week, right? Amazon. Yeah. Yeah, next week. Amazon is next week if I'm not wrong. Someone can correct me on that. I'm pretty sure Amazon is this week is Netflix and Tesla and IBM. And I think Amazon, Google, Microsoft Metal, all those guys are the week after. And then the week after that, you have Palinger, Hood, all those companies. 30th, right? 30th. Okay, cool. Amit that full beard is making you seem smarter. Dude, beard is growing. It's coming back. It's coming back. It has been two years since I think I even grew it to this level. So, it's coming back, bro. I think uh I think we might have the full-on beard come back. And, you know, when that happens, then uh then then I can really get to know Palanteer because, you know, at that point at that point, I'll be a target at that point. All right. Anyway, so let's get into what else is going on in the broader market. Uh this was another thing that was really important in regards to Bloomberg in gold. So let's talk more about gold. Here's what we got from Bloomberg. Uh emerging markets continue to be a top gold buyer. Poland is actually the largest buyer of gold. 18.7 metric tons. 18.7 metric tonses. I mean when I found this out last night, I was like, what is Poland doing buying the amount of gold that they're buying? And it goes to show that the price of gold, which has now rallied 70%. Look at that. back above 4,300. Go silver as well, 5246. That one not slowing down. Silver's down a little bit from 54, but breaking above 50 for the first time in 11 years is pretty incredible. It means a lot of these central banks across the world are buying gold. And this chart right here kind of continues to show that the central bank gold holdings as a percentage of the overall assets are now over 20%. And this is the highest share we've seen in nearly three decades. Is gold a bubble? That is my question for the chat. Is gold a bubble? Yeah, India has not bought as much gold in Q2 as Poland did and Kazakhstan and Turkey and then you have China, which China might be underrepresented in their numbers a little bit. And then the Czech Republic. I mean, it's it's quite incredible to see the amount of money that is flowing into gold. I wouldn't say it's necessarily a bubble, but I would say it's becoming one of those assets that kind of is is becoming too big to fail. Now, obviously, if if you get such a level of euphoria into there is some somewhat of a hiccup that happens, but it doesn't look like it's easily slowing down. And if it doesn't easily slow down, then you're going to see a lot more people pile into gold. Doug says, "Of course, gold is bubble. Gold markets will get dumped when DJT leaves the Oval Office and things get sold off." Yeah, I mean, maybe it's a it's a Trump trade right now. Maybe it's a central bank uh monetary easing trade right now. 10 year is below 4% in the pre-markets, which is really nice to see. Again, this makes no sense for gold to go up, which is anticipating inflation and for the 10-year to go down, aka people buying bonds because they are anticipating deflation or at least maybe not deflation, but not as high a level as inflation as one would expect if gold was up 70%. I mean, if you told me two years ago gold would be up 70% in 2025 and inflation at the time was what, 8% in 2022. I would tell you, damn, I guess we didn't solve inflation. I think the majority of people when inflation was 8% in 2022 and you said, hey, I came back from the future, gold is up 70% in 2025. You say, wow, I guess for three years we weren't able to get inflation to come down. That's wrong. Inflation has come down to 2.7%. At one point it was at 2.3 and gold is still up at its highest levels ever. It's kind of crazy to see this playing out, but it is playing out. Nick says developing countries could become exit liquidity. I mean, I think there's a lot of factions of the overall global investor community that could become exit liquidity on gold. The question is, is there like a legit rug pull coming or is this becoming an asset class that you have to be in if you're not going to be investing in the dollar as much as you know people would have invested before? Now, the dollar has been rel it's still down 10% year-over-year, but it's been flat over the past five months, which is good. that it's showing that the dollar is not continuing to weaken. But gold going up 70% or I think gold is up 42% in the past 3 months and the dollar being flat also is confusing. You would expect the dollar to weaken a little bit more if gold was going up at that rate. Josh says you only see this level prior to major conflicts. And that's another thing like I mean we've already had multiple major conflicts that are starting to somewhat get resolved in regards to the Middle East and potentially Russia Ukraine. So unless we're getting a World War III precursor coming up, I don't know what exactly people are getting excited for with gold. Dragon says it's a preservation of wealth. It's not an investment. It's insurance. People are betting against the dollar. I mean, that's fair, but again, you know, this whole idea of people are preserving their wealth. If gold falls 10% and I wonder how same thing with Bitcoin, right? You know, Bitcoin is seen as a store of value and then it doesn't store your value and then people start selling it off even though eventually it ends up coming back. I wonder if that same thing happens with gold. But gold is indeed having its moment and we're going to see if that continues over the the coming years. All right, we got two minutes until the market opens. Let's do the green or red poll. What do we think? Do we go green? Do we go red? I mean, look, I think based on everything we talked and everything we talked about for the past hour, I think we have a green day. Uh, quite frankly, I think we have a green week. This China stuff looks like it's getting resolved. Earnings are going to be pretty good. Earnings have already been phenomenal. As long as earnings can continue on this path. I don't see the reason for why the markets have to sell off this week. But then again, we also have had a really good September October or September August. uh you know we might continue to be in a chopptober versus October and although we might be having a little recovery right here in the pre-markets from some of the red last week it might not have to continue. So we are going to see how this ends up playing out but I do think I don't know dude when you put the pieces to the puzzle together China escalation shouldn't be that aggressive. Earnings growth should be good. We're getting a rate cut in two weeks and the regional banking crisis or whatever narrative the market wanted to come up with to tank stocks last week is just not that real if you look at the data. So, seems like these dips are still opportunities and now we just got to see how the market ultimately interprets it. All right, here we go. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Monday, October 20th. We got 11 days left of the month. 9:30 a.m. The stock market is once again open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. S&P 500 opens up.5% on the day. Green 66791. Remember on Friday it was up and down within like almost 50 uh 50 different green red opens across the board. There's a massive green candle right there. 668 on the S&P 500. We'll see if that holds any momentum or if that continues. Um but last week on Friday it went up. It went down. It went up and went down and then it completely got rearranged. So we're going to see if that holds on. Oh, Legend. You guys just saw my watch list disappear. You guys just saw it disappear. Let's go to Weeble. Maybe AWS. Wait, Weeble's having problems for you guys now as well. Oh, let me see. Let me see. Those AWS issues might be back, but let's go to Weeble. Okay, S&P still moving 668. So, there you go. We are green. That's up half% of the day. SoFi 2733. That's up about 3%. SoFi chart not loading. SoFi chart not loading. Robin Hood chart not loading. Oh, they're all down. They're all down. Damn, bro. AWS, I thought the problems were resolved. They should have been fixed like an hour ago. I mean, they were fixed an hour. We were literally just looking at the chart like 30 seconds ago. Okay, I think Robin's back. I think Robin's back or Weeble's done. Weeble's done. Robin Hood should be back. Okay, S&P that's up.5%. AMD, that's up 2%. SoFi, that's up three. Google, that's up half percent. Grab that's up 2%. Bitcoin and Ethereum back over 4,000 and 110,000. TLT, that's up a little bit. Circle, that's up 2.5. Uh, Micro Strategy, that's up 2.97. YouTube just crashed for you a minute ago. Wow. Yeah, you're getting a bunch of different issues throughout the day. Roblox, that's up 1%. Crowd Strike, that's up 1.3. Rocket Lab, okay, there was something we didn't talk about in the pre-markets, but the secretary of um the secretary of transportation came on CNBC in the pre-markets and uh he said that SpaceX is behind on the contract that was initially awarded to them to get back to the moon. And so, he is opening up the contract for any space company to bid, including Blue Origin. And I think that's why Rocket Lab is up 3% right here because if they bid to potentially get back to the moon, I mean that would be a massive contract for a company of their scale. And you know, Sean Duffy, he didn't hesitate to say that SpaceX is being slow and it was kind of a public call out for other companies to compete for this. So that could be a reason why Rocklab's getting some momentum. ESTs as well. This was 84 in the pre-markets. 8649 that is also green. A lot of you guys are having some issues across the brokerages. very weird, but at least Legend is not messing up too badly right now. Intel, that's at 37.93. Disney's up a little bit. Square is up a little bit. Duolingo just went red. Door Dash, that's up about 1%. Redcap, that's up 3.2. How about I the Bitcoin miners? It's barely searching for me, dude. It's not even pulling up a ticker. Yahoo's down, too. Does everything run on AWS? Goodness gracious. 61.49 on Iran. That's up 1.3. Regionals are, if they're ever going to load, probably green, but they're not going to load. Uh, let me go back to Weeble and see if we can load something up. Weeble is not loading anything either. Damn, bro. AWS controls the internet. AWS controls the internet. This is wild. This is wild. I mean, let's see if we can go to another website and see if we can get some of these tickers. Um, Trading View, is that working? Kind of. Trading View is working. Not as much. Let me go back to Weeble, see if we got some Thinker Swim works. Yeah, Chad right there. AWS uh outage in the East Coast, dude. But I I thought it was resolved a couple hours ago because everything was working. But I guess there is still some pain right here. It It's like working on Robin. It's just slow. It's just like really slow. Now it's getting back to a little bit normal. Nvidia, that's down half a percent. Where is Amazon with this? Amazon's actually up on this 214. So, Amazon not losing too much pain from this, but it's green. Chat says there was a mitigation put in place. All right, so hopefully it doesn't end up continuing throughout the entire day. PayPal right there, that's up 1%. Salesforce up 1.6. And the meta, that's up 1% as well. Fidelity and Schwab are working good. All right. So, it seems like Weeble, Hood, and Yahoo Finance are some of the big ones that are affected by this. S&P though, look at that. 668, folks. If we get back to 670, all-time highs were 673 before this whole China disaster started in regards to the back and forth of rhetorical, I guess, insults towards one another, which have started to deescalate. That happened two weeks ago. I mean, 673 is not that far away. If we can get back above 670, that would be very nice to see. BMR. We'll see how that one loads up. SMCI 56. All right. SMCI, that XAI contract being a rumor and getting that one to be a bit more exciting. Legend unfortunately is not loading or it's very slow. Bit mine. 5213. 5213. Why is Nvidia red? I'm not even sure why Nvidia's red on the day. I mean, Jensen had a really good interview on Fox yesterday. got a lot more people to understand the broader Nvidia thesis. However, it is Nvidia and it goes up and down for random reasons. It is weird though because all the semis are green. I mean, pretty much all the semis including Micron, SMCI, etc. are green and so not sure why Nvidia isn't really following here. That one is red. Um, okay. Okay, I think we just maybe we switch to Trading View for now to look at some of these charts because otherwise this stuff is being a bit weird now. I don't use Trading View like crazy, but let's pull it up. We'll just search the tickers. I don't have watch list on this. I guess I should set up watch list as a backup on Trading View just in case this stuff happens. So, here's Amazon right here. 21448. That one's still green. Uh Palanteer getting a little bit of red as well. Palanteer one. 12 pounder just went green 17863 that's up slightly as we open app loven that's dumping not sure why apploven is dumping I mean the SEC probe continues to be an issue these guys were at 610 last week app wow down 4% right back down to 575 I took a swing trade on this at 578 sold it at 598 this one not really getting back above those levels 574 at these areas Baba how is China doing right here that's at 168 down a little bit. Um, okay. Let me see if Legend is getting back to normal. No, Legend still sucks. Dude, AWS really took the M. Okay, so it's annoying for like the stream because we can't see the stocks, but I would imagine people that are trying to trade are way more annoyed because they might not be able to access their positions. Let me know if anyone's having some. Yeah, I I mean, I just logged on to the brokerage. barely loading. I mean, not the best look, dude. Uh, obviously, you know, Hood is going to blame Amazon for this, which they should, but nonetheless, it is dicey when people can't get out of these positions. Same thing for Weeble. You got a lot of traders on Weeble. SoFi chart barely loading on Weeble still. Ethereum is not even loading either. Weeble's frozen again. Some of you guys saying my Robin is just fine. It just goes to show how freaking important some of these companies are. I mean, at the end of the day, like, and again, Robin had put out a notice on their app that AWS was having issues, and they said the the the issues have been resolved like an hour ago. So, the fact that the issues came back just goes to show how aggressive might be. Hoodie is up 4% row 1358 or 13482. So, that's green. And then S&P 66885 trying to get back to 669. Chad says, "And it shows how fragile most software is." Yeah, it shows how fragile most software ends up becoming and why companies actually have to pay to get quality. Now again, if you're not in the Northeast, you might not be having these issues. I think it is isolated to Amazon Northeast, which is a big section of the country, but obviously if you're not in the Northeast, you're probably not having that many issues. Um, Bitcoin 110, SoFi 2740, Hood 13494, Nvidia still flat on the day or sorry, Red on the day, Bank of America that's down, and then Morgan Stanley that's up 1.16%. Ethereum at least above for that. It's bad in Texas, too. Oh [ __ ] Wait, no. I thought it was just Northeast. Oh, but if all the ser Oh, if all the services run on Northeast servers, it doesn't matter. If you're located in the Northeast, your shit's still going to get hurt. Ah, okay, that makes sense. Northeast is just where the servers are. Oh, I'm stupid. I thought if you're in the Northeast, it has an impact. But if the servers are in the Northeast, you know, doesn't matter where the hell you live. Okay. So, Houston's having issues. Kansas is bad. Miami is bad. All right. [ __ ] So, what do we talk about then? What do we You guys want to hear some jokes? I mean, you know, your boy is is entering his comedian arc. I'm trying to trying to trying to test out some material. Anyway, down in Arkansas, down in San Diego, down in so down in Scotland, down in Greece. Goodness gracious, bro. Freaking Amazon. This stock should be freaking down 10%. Let us buy it cheaper if it's going to wreck the entire world. Goodness gracious. Down in Memphis, down in Wisconsin, down in Norway. Dude, I'm really stupid. I when I saw northeast I was like oh if you live in the northeast you have some problems but if you're anywhere else you're okay. No it's like the servers are in the northeast for the majority of the world or potentially for a majority of a lot of places in the world and it could obviously affect a lot of the world at that point. AMD 236 SoFi that's up 3.5%. Any statement from AWS? You know I didn't see anything in the morning. Let's see if they tweeted anything about it. Surprisingly, Twitter is not down as much. So, I guess maybe some of their servers aren't isolated in in the Northeast. No, they haven't. Dude, they're tweeting about this random dude talking about advancing DevOps with Amazon Nova. No one cares about that [ __ ] dude. We want to want to just get our internet back to normal. This could give Microsoft even a bigger pump potentially. I'm surprised Amazon hasn't come out and said anything about this either. That is kind of weird. SMCI up 7%. That's getting some love. Yeah, that was three days ago. That tweet is old, too. They haven't even updated. Micro Strategy is up 3.6. And then Microsoft, that's up half a percent. Uh, X doesn't use AWS for their primary services. Okay, that makes sense. Hood is working fine for you. Legend's okay. I mean, let me search Uber. No, look at that. I can't even get to the Uber. It won't even search it up. It takes a good minute for it to show up. That's crazy, bro. We are so accustomed to speed and efficiency in 2025. Like, we just need it to happen. And if it doesn't, you know, we start complaining and these tech companies usually live up to the challenge to support us. But when they don't, all hell breaks loose. Nvidia right there, 1827. That is also trying to break out to go green. Rocket Lab 70. Rocket Lab. Okay, Rocket Lab. Again, that NSA deal or the that NASA opening up with the contract is definitely something that's getting the market excited. There you go. Back to 70 70.10 on Rocket Lab. Just restart your computer. Exactly. Chad says, "Think about all the manufacturing companies running their SAP instance in US East one and can't operate." Yeah, dude. We're talking about a market open that's having some issues. I mean, there's a lot of other companies out there that have much more important things to be doing right now that likely can't operate. That is wild, bro. the some of these I mean crowd strike proved it to us back in August of 2024 and you know I don't think this is well we're going to see but it doesn't seem like it's as aggressive as the crowd strike outage was but it it is it is just a reminder of how technologically intertwined the entire world is so right they're up 4% and how fragile systems of software are as well that's up 1% Na'vi breaking 17 this one hasn't had an incredible run. Jose's only warning about this was that make sure that on earnings they actually give you specific details about their partnership with Nvidia because if they don't that's where the streak can get a little iffy but right now the stock has basically gone from 9 to 17 on a narrative rerating with their work with Nvidia and so earnings will be important for them. The VIX is down 6% that's also really nice to see the VIX taking a hit and then TFC another regional bank that's up 1%. Elon's clowning AWS on X. Yeah, I mean, I would imagine GCP and Microsoft try to take advantage of this in a bunch of different ways potentially by luring people off of AWS. It also goes to show how massive AWS is compared to some of those other guys. Like, this is not the first time AWS has had issues. I mean, Google literally had issues a week ago, right, when YouTube shut down. But uh when AWS goes down, the entire world feels it. Reddit is up 5% and then Amazon's still up half a percent right there. Um yeah, a lot of people saying my app is not working. Most of Amazon.com is running on Dynamo DB, AWS, Perplexity, Snapchat, Fortnite, Air Table, Canva, Amazon Slack, half the internet is affected. Damn, that's wild, dude. There must be I mean, this could also affect the market right here because there might be people that are trying to make trades or they they can't make trades and as a result, you might just not have certain types of liquidity entering the market right now and those trades might be affected for later throughout throughout the day. I mean, I would imagine a bunch of hedge funds also run a lot of services on something like AWS. Ethereum right there 4,000. S&P trying to break 669. We touched it for a second. Couldn't hold on to it. Amazon still at 214. And then Google at least breaking 255. Yeah, Hood stock not affected by this, but a lot of you guys are saying you can't make trades. And I mean, let me try to reload my Robin Hood app. It was barely loading before. Yeah, it's barely loading. Now, you had a lot of the Ethereum bulls come out and they were like, well, Ethereum never has downtime and this is the bull case for Ethereum. And like, okay, that's fine, but Ethereum also doesn't handle the type of workloads that AWS handles. Like, like look, I like Ethereum too, but a lot of these Ethmaxes are like, this is why you need a distributed decentralized server process to, you know, I'm like, bro, shut up. like like a decentralized ecosystem like Ethereum is not going to be managing half the internet. Like what are we talking about here? But it does mean that when Amazon does, we need to make sure you know the [ __ ] doesn't get hit. Robin right there 13566 still going up. I'm surprised Hood stock is up. You would think it would be getting hit just based on the weakness and the the app being able to function right now, but that one's still moving. AMCO as well got the Jensen mentioned that's up 4%. Grabs up 1%. Oaklo up another 1% as well. Um, Coinbase is also down by the way. So, Coinbase is Let me know if if you guys have any issues with Coinbase, but in the morning a lot of people were having issues on Coinbase. Shopify, can't see that stock right now. Nvidia, wait, what about Google? Could I just go to Google to look at some of these stocks? I should be able to, right? Yeah. Okay, I guess we're going to go to Google. Shop is up 3.3. Dude, Google needs to build like a Weeble competitor or like a like like a I mean, I know they have Google Finance, but Well, this is I don't use this too much, but if they could design something with like a watch list that is similar to Weeble or something or even Legend, that would be pretty cool. Yeah, I've never used this one before. This is the classic one. Palunteer 17826. Um, Google has a 15-minute delay. Well, no, I think that delay started to get fixed after a couple of couple of adjustments they made over the past couple weeks because now you see the tickers update in real time. Here's the heat map for what we've got going on. I guess Finn Wiz doesn't run on AWS, but uh, everything's pretty much green across the board. Apple, Amazon, Tesla, Google Meta, Broadcom, Nvidia is the only one that's down. Microsoft's up. I mean, look, this is a pretty green day to start the market. Applovin's down and Oracle is down and Qualcomm. Outside of that, everything else is green. Yeah, Snapchat's not working either. That happened in the pre-market as well. Okay. Is Weeble coming back a little bit? No, Weeble's still dead. Let's see if Legend's coming back a little bit. All right. Legend is getting way faster. At least searching on the tickers is faster. AMD, that's up 1.2. So, that's up five. Google, that's up one. Grab, that's up 1.4. Baba, that's down half a percent. Only update on Grabb is their COO did an interview over the weekend. This is like the seventh interview that executives have been doing in the past month. So, I think the fact that they're engaging with the media more means that, you know, they're ready to start uh bringing the company more into the public and that should be good for the Q for Q3 results. But ultimately, we're going to have to see. Yep. Legend just died on me. Legend just died on me. It's coming back slowly. It's wild, bro. Absolutely wild. Rockab at least is still making its move again based on this idea that uh NASA contracts are going to open up to go back to the moon. Bit mine 5352 that's up 7%. SoFi 28. I have not bought my shares yet. I was thinking of buying more in the low 27s. We'll see if we have a chance throughout the week. If not, we'll pull the trigger. But SoFi right there, at least that is up 5% on the day. No one can sell anything. So stocks only go up. You know that it's a joke, but that's also like legit. Like if people can't sell, you might have nothing else to do but have some of these stocks go higher. But that means they might end up selling when the services come back and you could have a big intraday intraday swing. Um, okay, let me pull this up right here. This is a link to Amazon services and the health of these services. Oh, here are all the updates. What time is it right now? It's 9. Okay, so this was 8 minutes ago. We have applied multiple mitigations across availability zones in US East1 and are still experiencing elevated errors for new EC2 instance launches. We are rate limiting new instance launches to aid recovery. We will provide an update at 7:30 which is 10:30 or sooner if we have additional information. Damn, bro. That's wild. That's wild. Yeah. This is also why when the when the socialists are like, "Hey, we need to nationalize everything." It's like, bro, if private companies are having these type of issues, you think the government's going to be able to operate distributed servers across the world, it's Amazon or bust, bro. This shit's either going to work or it's not going to work. Chat says, "An AWS region is actually dozens of data centers in that region. Each is called an availability zone. So, even though they fixed the root cause, the coming back online is hampered. All right. Well, Chad, thank you for helping explain this to us. Uh, pounder right there 17912. It's coming back slowly, but still a bit slower than expected. Amazon right there 21465. Is SoFi having issues? I don't use SoFi, but let me know in the chat. I think most of you I mean, let me know if anyone's having issues with SoFi. I don't think they're necessarily having too many issues. But I don't use the app, so I'm not sure. So right there, 448. No, Tesla's 448. SoFi's at 28. Noi issues. Okay, so is not having problems. Didn't SoFi just announced a partnership with Amazon, though? That doesn't mean they use it, but or use it yet, but they announced something with AWS like two days ago, which leads me to believe they might be using it. Oh, a Galo announced something with AWS. Okay, maybe that's not the actual Invest app itself. Yeah, Fidelity, Schwab, and JP Morgan along with E Trade and SoFi look like they're good. Weeble Hood are the main ones that got hit. The main ones that got hit. Apple's at 259. Again, the street is very excited about this iPhone 17 upgrade cycle. Oil down another 1% on the day. Let me know if you've bought iPhone 17s or any version of the iPhone 17. Um, I mean, Counterpoint Research saying that the first 10 days is up 14% compared to iPhone 16. That is a massive move for something like Amazon or for something like Apple and you know, you're probably going to see some share of performance if they can deliver results. This is what Robin had said at 4 a.m. AWS, one of our thirdparty vendors, is experiencing an outage which is affecting Robinet services. We're aware of the issue and we will update once resolved. So, that was at 4 am, but still some of those issues are there. Wow, a decent chunk of you saying yes. bought the new phone. It really looks like it was an upgrade cycle for the vast majority of people that were on like iPhone 14, iPhone 15. Apple, right? They're up 3% on the day. Look at that. Potentially breaking 260. Dude, when this thing was at 180, how many people thought it would easily in the next three months get up to 260. I mean, this thing was in the gutter. Fortunately, we have it in the stock draft right here. Update on that is Matt is up 50%. Goodness, he's crossed 50 all time. I'm at 37. We're up um 30% on Apple. Steve's at eight, Tanner's at 21, Chris is at 11. ABCL, Rocket Lab, ASTS, and Celsius are the big big winners from that. People with iPhone 14, 15 have had enough battery performance decline they need to get a new phone. Yeah, I mean that's why I got the iPhone 16. My 15 was just getting ridiculous and I had to end up leaving. SMCI, that's up 7%. Uh, Loheed Martin, that's up a little bit. IBKR doesn't look like people are having too many issues with IBKR either. That's up. And then TTD is up. Hoodie still up 5% on the day even with this AWS issue. This thing got to 122 last week. So, you are seeing a little bit more excitement right now. Yes, Adver does have a 290 Apple price target. They've always been pretty bullish on Apple. And then there was another bank, I forgot the name of the bank, but they came out with a freaking three uh was it 320? No, 319 price target. 310 price target as well. Um, okay. Let's see what other headlines that we have. Trump is going to be speaking at 11:00 a.m. today. Not sure why, but he'll be speaking at 11:00 a.m. Um, we talked about the China GDP forecast. Goldman Sachs projecting a.3% CPI rise for September with core inflation at 3.1%. So, they're expecting it to not be up as aggressively as some of the other targets have. Nvidia trying to break even right there. S&P 669 high of day on the S&P. Nebus, are we getting a dump? Nebas is getting a dump. 112. How about Cororeweave? Um, Corewave 134, that's also down 2%. That is also down 2%. Yeah, dude. A lot of people having issues with Weeble as well. Let me see if my phone loads up. Broken. So, Legend is a little bit faster. Phone still bad. Phone's still bad. Can't buy or sell. Can't buy or sell AMD. Is that one green? AMD was at 240 last week. AMD 237. Dude, a lot of you guys use Weeble just based on the comments I'm seeing of the amount of people complaining about Weeble. I didn't know that many people use Weeble. Decent chunk of you guys getting annoyed with this Weeble thing. Oh, Trump's meeting with the Australian prime minister at 11 a.m. Okay, cool. So, I guess we'll be having a meeting then. Silver and gold. Oh, they're talking about Robin Hood on CBC right now. Let's switch over to them. See what they're saying. Silver and gold are slightly up for the day. They were down on Friday after the China stuff. It was so weird. Gold and silver went down when the China stuff deescalated last week, but now they're up, but the China stuff still deescalated based on what Trump said last night. So, I don't know. It's it's it's a weird trade that's going in a variety of different directions. Okay, let's see what they're saying here. uh that I would say everything that's contrary to investing a lot of it's based there and it's because of younger people and I think they offer such a great IRA plan. They they've done everything they can to be as responsible as possible but people just go there and they buy this is where all the rare earth is bought and the nuke is bought.
>> Okay, so Kramer's complaining that retail is basically buying stupid [ __ ] on Robin Hood. Look, he's not totally wrong. I mean, there's probably a decent chunk of uh people buying the stuff that's been rallying for no reason on Hood, but I also don't think that's not happening. I mean, dude, the top five stocks that were bought in September on Schwab, Nvidia, Meta, Palenteer, Amazon, and Open. So like if the Schwab people are buying it was a top five stock in September Openor on Schwab like I think it's a little lazy to say all the buying is happening on Robin Hood. Not saying that there's not a lot of people loading up on Oaklow on Robin Hood. I'm just saying I don't think it's only Robin Hood. Now five years ago it likely would have only been Robin Hood but retail has vastly developed since then and there's a lot more retail investors that don't use Robin Hood but still you know choose to speculate on some of those names. So, it's not that crazy to me to imagine that some of that buying would be happening in other areas. Open Door, speaking of that stock, uh price currently is 738, up 3%. As we get into the open, dude, this kind of sucks. It messes up the whole flow of the show. I'm sorry, guys. This is just one of those market opens where we're not going to be able to easily flow with everything else. I mean, we kind of need these tickers loading instantly to get through all the updates we have. So, it might just be one of those days and hopefully we can fix it by the close. Um, I also I probably need to I I dude I don't really use Trading View or Yahoo Finance. I guess I need to educate myself on those platforms in case this stuff happens so I can just easily pull up a This stuff just never happens. Like we never have an issue with with Weeble. Like if Hood is messed up, I go to Weeble. If We Weeble's being stupid, I go to Hood. Usually they're both my backups. But when both of them go down, I'm like, "Well, I don't know what else to use. I don't really use anything else. Like, I don't spend a lot of time training myself on how to use other watch list platforms. I just pick one and use it. That's it." And yeah, Yahoo Finance is also still down for a lot of people. It's just weird. I should probably learn Trading View, though. I mean, I've been doing Technical Tuesday for like a year with Jason. I need to 2026 that I knew I know I said 2025 one of my goals was to get better at TA, but then a lot of [ __ ] just ended up happening in 2025. I think 2026, one of my goals is to actually be able to do some real TA by myself without having to need Jason to explain it to me. Bit mine 54. Okay. Is that because ETH is moving up? Is that because of ETH? No, ETH is flat. Bit mine's moving up and ET is flat. Wow. You We haven't seen that happen in a couple weeks, but Bitmine up almost 9% and Ethereum not really doing anything. Trading View doesn't have overnight hours data. Yeah, it's weird, right? Like people don't love the charts on Hood. They love the charts on Trading View, but they love a lot of other stuff on Hood that Trading View doesn't have. I always thought Hood should buy Trading View, but Trading View is about three four billion dollars. I don't know if that would be the best use of their capital. It's just there's there's a lot of stuff people love about Trading View that is hard for them to use on Hood. Tom Lee is hacking the servers right now. No, but you dude, given how volatile Bitmine's been, it hasn't really Right now, the multiple is expanding. When the asset is doing nothing, aka staying flat, and the treasury stock is going up, the MNAV is expanding. Why is the MNAV expanding today? I don't know. I mean, yeah, they bought more Ethereum, but outside of that reason, I don't know why they would be getting an increased multiple on a day like this. A could you do a TA versus fundamental poll? Yeah, let's do that. Let's do TA. Okay, so the question is, um, if you had to pick between the one you use more often, by the way, 85% of you said we'll be green today. Uh, Joe made a good point in the chat. If retail can't buy stocks today and we're green, you're probably getting a lot of institutional buys that are coming in, which is also really bullish to see. Do you use TA or fundamentals more? Fundamentals, TA, or both? Now, if you pick both, click both. If you honestly use both, like 5050, but if you have to pick which one is like 7030, for me, it's like 9010 fundamentals over TA. Um, but I am curious to see kind of the breakup of this. 53% say fundamentals, 13% say TA, 31% say both. All right. So, a decent mo majority obviously fundamentals, but still a decent mix across the board. Apple's still up 2.7, Tesla's up 1.9, and then pounder 180 on the day. Uh, there were a couple macro charts, so let me go to that and then we'll get back to some of the legend stuff and see if it comes back to normal. So, I shared some of this stuff last night. Uh, first of all, here's a new chart. US debt continues to reach all-time highs, 98.8 trillion in Q2 of 2025. It's a lot of debt. Federal government rose to 35.6 trillion in Q2, but the most recent data shows it has reached 37.5 trillion or 123% of GDP. Now, Japan is about 250% of GDP on a debt to GDP ratio. The United States is at 130%. We're better than Japan, but we're not that much better if we continue on this path. So, obviously, debt payments continue to stack up and hopefully we can grow ourselves out of this mess. Leverage ETFs, 701 of them exist in October of 2025. So, we have massive leverage that continues to enter the system. Now, the overall AUM of these leverage ETFs is about 100 billion. So I mean even if these ETFs were to go to zero, you know, maybe that wouldn't be the worst thing in the world for the broader market, but nonetheless, there is a ton of leverage in these ETFs in the system. And that goes to the second point, which is that there's a ton of margin that is also in the system. If you take a look at this chart right here, margin debt is officially at an all-time high. Uh 1.13 trillion as of September 2025. It's up 67 billion in one month. So you're getting margin debt that is month over month increasing by tens and tens of billions of dollars. Every time margin debt got to these levels, it ended up being a top to the market. I think there's a lot of reasons why we're probably not at a top to the market in terms of all the different things we have going on with rate cuts and earnings growth. But it does mean that people are borrowing money to be able to go long assets. And if those assets continue to go higher, rates continue to go lower, aka the cost of borrowing that capital continues to become cheaper, and earnings continue to perform and outperform quite frankly, then the margin might not be as ugly of an issue as it has been historically. But we're going to have to see how the broader market performs to see what happens with that margin. Robin Hood right there up 13593, pound 180, SoFi 5%. I think I was just about to say I think Legend's getting faster. Then I click on one name and the chart's barely loading. So never mind. But I thought it was getting faster. Google right there, that's also up 1% on the day. Wow. Fanny and Freddy, that's up 8% as well. MongoDB, that's up 3%. You I mean, you do have green across the board. There's not that many names that are red. Elf is red by 5%. Apploven's down by 6%. Coreweave's down 1%. Neb is down 1%. Dolingo. I did a deep dive on Dolingo on the Substack. Again, thank you for everyone who took the time to read um the Dolingo and BMR article. I mean, look, after doing that deep dive, it's hard to be super bearish about Duolingo. Like, genuinely, I don't think there is such a egregious bare case that at this price means this thing has to go back down to the, you know, to the 150s. It's just not the most compelling bull case either. I mean, there is a compelling bull case. It's just the way I look at it. the TAM is not that exciting to be attracted to a network effect company versus like an Uber, for example, that just has a more aggressive TAM um or even a Netflix when it comes to content. So, I do think Dualingo eventually gets back into the 400s. I just I don't know if they can get rid of that AI overhang narrative that's on top of them. TFC, that's up 1% of the day. IWM, small caps, actually up 1.3, which is not too bad. Where is INEN? Are we still above 60? Wow, I goes below 60. loses 60 that IN usually leads the Bitcoin miner. So if IN's taking a hit, you might start to see the other guys go red. Yeah, Bit Farms, it's not red yet, but it's seven cents away from going red. Clean Spark, which was up 12%, now up 10%. And the other ones might go red as well. Cipher 1980, that one's still slightly green. Quantum is red. QBTS, are we red on Quantum? We are down 2%. IO and Q down 1% and Regetti 2.85% down. All right, so the quantum names are red and then Tesla getting some love. What do we think Tesla? Are we making a move on Wednesday? We'll do more of a preview as we get into earnings. We talked about it last night. My simple thoughts on Tesla is I don't know what the company's going to be able to say to get the market to be super excited. Like I just don't know if there's enough that uh they can do to get the stock to actually make all-time highs. I mean, the fact that it's even holding the 430s, 440s, I think is important for it to bust out into the 500s. I don't know. I just I think there needs to be a little bit more earnings growth and that stuff probably we're not going to see until 2026. Energy is going to be good, but energy is not a massive contributor to the bottom line. Tesla right there up 1.8%. Google that is up 1% as well. BTBT is ripping. That is another uh ETH Treasury. Wow. 17%. Okay. So, you're getting some action there. That's weird. Why are all the ETH treasuries going up, but ETH is staying flat. You might have someone who's buying a ton of these, right? Maybe an institution coming in and establishing some positions. Or maybe just retail can't sell. And maybe that's what's happening. But there's something going on. Joby as well up four and a half percent. Um Doug says, "Oddow that previous day's problems were that liquidity issues stopped the new generation online trading platforms from working. Now that there is liquidity, retail is still locked out." Yeah, it's weird, dude. It's very very weird how it's affecting it. But also, I mean, if you if you chalk it up to AWS, then some of these platforms that just aren't using AWS aren't affected. Yeah, ETH is up over the weekend, but ETH is not up that much. Like ETH is up enough for Bitmine to probably be at 50, 50, 52. Maybe breaking out to almost 55 is assuming ETH is closer to 42 4,300. And you know, that's not what we're seeing right now. Uh Trump is live. Is he actually live? No. No. If you're looking at the feed where he's talking about Air Force One, that was last night. So he's not actually live right now. Let's get some updates from China and hear what's going on there in terms of their GDP growth and then we'll keep going from there.
>> And also the slowest level in about a year. Um just shows some of the pressures that have been building on the Chinese economy. Something that Treasury Secretary Scott Basson actually said in an interview last week uh as to some of their motivation for why they're acting tougher when it comes to the trade situation. And just to break it down further, what you see is retail sales are weak. 3% was less than expected there. The consumer's been sluggish in China. What's strong? Industrial production. Their export machine is still going and powering ahead. Up 6 and a half% on the year. And we saw in export data last week that they're finding new markets outside the US. Exports are plunging to the US, but they're booming in places like Africa and the rest of Asia and even Europe. They've been higher. So that's what's keeping their economy. But the but the really weak number was actually fixed investment for China um which saw a drop and that and that's you know problematic for the world's second biggest economy. So it gives you a little bit sense of what's going on there beneath the surface as we wonder about where these trade tensions lie at this point.
>> Yeah, we were just talking with Jim about uh the symbolist note from last week. All right. So, China GDP growth not the best in the context of the consumer. Overall, manufacturing is starting to get a bit more momentum, which is kind of what uplifted that GDP. Again, a lot of that manufacturing. That's because the US is buying all their stuff, which means they need the US consumer as much as we need their labor. And hopefully that gets us closer to a deal. By the way, look at the S&P, folks. We are 30 cents from touching 670. I know it's been a weird morning with all the brokerage outages, but if we touch 670, I mean, we are pretty damn close at that point to all-time highs. Pretty damn close, which would be very nice to see as we get towards the end of October. 669 right there on the S&P. Um, yeah, grab 567. Grab the shorts are in control right now. I mean, volume has pretty much died out. The shorts continue to manipulate. So until they have an earnings which really gets the shorts to leave the stock, I I think the stock's probably not really going to make a move or they make an announcement of what they're doing with their cash. But again, that probably happens within the earning cycle. Remember Q3, the stock was at 350 last year, went all the way up to 570 uh because they they increased their adjusted EBIDA uh forecast. I think they do the exact same this Q3. I don't know if the stock runs up to like 750, which would be an equivalent move, but I do think the shorts potentially stop manipulating it, which would help. Nvidia, that's back to red. Tesla, that's up two. S&P trying to break 670, but not fully getting up there yet. Wow, Nebius, why is Nebas getting hit? They had a good update this morning about a new data center down 4%. I mean, look, you can't complain too much. Nebia stock year to date is still up 250% but it was at 137 last week. Is this a buy the dip guys to all my Nebus bulls? Is it is this a buy the dip? Is this is this like a nibble? Is this like a 10 share nibble or is this weighted out because it's going below 100? What do we think? Oracle margin. Dude, the Oracle margin news is nonsense though. The Oracle margin stuff was even disproved last week. Like why is Oracle at the heart of all these issues? Yeah. The see the problem I'm looking at the headline right now about Oracle margins. The other issue with the Oracle margin stuff is a lot of it's not accounting for future growth. A lot of it's only accounting for the things they've already set up in those data centers which are margin intensive because you have to incur a lot of cost to be able to set up those data centers in the first place. I mean, literally on their freaking investor day, I'm looking at the chart right here, they guided for 30 to 40% non-GAAP gross margins. This is much higher than the 15% that the information reported two weeks ago that sent Oracle down like 10%. I don't know. That's weird. That's weird that Nebus is getting hit on this. Nebas 10882 and then Coreweave, I think, is also getting hit at the same time. Uber that's down 1% 133. Corre down three. Yes, Robin. It's still having issues. I still can't even look at that. I mean, it's it's not even won't even load. There is a notice in the app that it's because of AWS, but still. This must be fascinating for like all the people that are into uh data science engineers, people that work on the cloud. I mean like that that like just seeing how much the world is affected by this stuff. Like it it goes to show how important a lot of these services are, but it also goes to show how crucial it is to understand how the internal dynamics of how this stuff works because it affects literally everything. Amazon though is up 1% on the day. Amazon trying to crack 215 right here. Even with all this playing out, I think it's because on the crowd strike thing, it felt like just negligence, like someone was really stupid and a mistake was made and then, you know, airlines shut down. With Amazon, it feels like it's I mean, I still don't know exactly what the reason for it is, but it doesn't feel like someone pushed the wrong button and it was like negligence. It's more like it was it's just a maintenance issue. Yeah, we'll get a status update in 15 minutes. Correct. and then we'll see what Amazon has to say. Um, Amit, in the event that the market was tanking and you're unable to access your brokerage, how do you go about holding companies accountable? I mean, look, it depends, right? Like, is it Robin Hood's fault? Is it Weeble's fault? Or is it freaking Amazon's fault? I It mean I don't know, dude. Do I really hold them? I don't know. It's a tricky question. If the market's tanking and I'm trying to sell and Amazon is down, therefore I can't sell, it's hard for me to blame Robin Hood on that. Now, if Robin Hood's down, then you you you give a you know, you're talking about class action lawsuits out the wazoo. But if it's something else, I mean, again, it's just and it's not like Robin Hood's running on some random cloud service per like this is freaking Amazon. This is something that Robin Hood probably pays a lot of money to AWS every month hoping that this [ __ ] doesn't happen. Granted, I mean it I look, I'm not a cloud expert, but is there a generator in this [ __ ] Like is there a backup or something? Right? Like when the power goes out, you have a generator. Can do we have a separate cloud that we can use sometimes or something? Feels like that would that would be helpful in situations like this. Are you saying Amazon has class action lawsuits coming? I mean, it depends, dude. It depend. Crow Crowdstrike had a ton of them because Crowdstrike legit had a negligence problem with Amazon. We don't know exa I don't know exactly why this is happening, but maybe maybe there is some broader concern with how this ended up playing out and they get sued. I don't think a VPN would fix this, guys. I don't think if I get on a VPN and change my location that will change anything necessarily. Feels like it's a broader issue that's going on. Um, could be a power issue. Dude, if it's a data, if Amazon says the reason this happened was because data centers were creating too much load on the cloud and there was an energy issue, that would be wild. That would be absolutely wild. I mean, it would once again go to show that energy is definitely in a a tougher situation than not. Uh, all right, let's see if we can get some of these other tickers loading up. So S&P still trying to make back to 670 levels. Archers up 2%. GameStop's up 1%. Lockheed's up one. New banks up 2.21533. Um admit this is a crowd strike moment. It is a crowdstrike moment, but the stock is not down 30% like Crowdstrike. That that's the problem. Like we can't really buy the dip on this because there is no dip that we're seeing. Salesforce 249, that's up a little bit. And then Meta, wow, Meta making a move back to 730. This thing was at 690 last week. So, nice little recovery there. And then SMCI was up 7%, now it's up 5%. BMR, we still holding 54. ETH is still slightly down. BMR 53. All right. So, Bitmine going down as well. Uh, Iran and cipher dumping. Well, Cipher still up down from its highs. Iran officially goes down 2.4%. Here's the other thing about when the market potentially gets back to all-time highs. And I I would love to know perspectives in the chat right here. If the market goes back to all-time highs, so let's go to 6 673. Um, let's just call it 675. And Oaklo goes back to 195. Do you think we're in a healthy bull market? Oaklo down 4%. because I don't think we are. I mean, like, look, it's still a bull market that Oaklo is not going to ruin, but I think if Oaklo stays stuck at 150 and the S&P gets to 675, it's a lot healthier. Aka, a lot of the stuff that's been running for no reason, if that stuff kind of stays in the graveyard, metaphorically, while the rest of the market goes back up, I think that would be a very, very healthy thing to see if everything just goes back to going bonkers. I mean, it's kind it's it's going back to being a clownish market. Like, you don't want the meme stocks running like crazy just because the broader market recovers. You want a lot of those stocks to get flushed out. The question is, do you need a do you need like a 10% S&P draw down to flush those names out or can those names get flushed out independent of the market? Like, if Quantum goes back to the moon when the S&P gets to alltime highs, I don't think that's the healthiest. So, I would be curious to see can we make all-time highs believe the stuff that was stupid to to to be stupid. And what I mean by that is not saying their companies are stupid, just saying the runs they were having made no sense. I feel like it'd be better if those names don't run. And I think it'd be better for all of us, dude. Especially if you're in some of those names because if you want, you know, a quantum stock to stay up 4,000%, you it you probably don't need it to keep going up every day. you probably needed to consolidate and normalize in a range which would be bullish for your position because you get to keep your gains. But if it just keeps going up and up and up, I mean like I feel like it's just coiling up to eventually collapse, which is what we've seen over and over again. So I think that's going to be one of the most important things that we see going into the end of the year, especially if we continue to get alltime highs on the S&P. Reddit, that's at 210, continuing to go green. GSI Technology is up 170%. What is this thing? Design, development, and marketing of memory products primarily for the networking and telecommunication markets. Wide area network infrastructure equipment. This is a $400 million company. They must have had a headline today to get this thing moving. GSIT. Um, GSI Technology, the inventor of associated programming unit, a paradigm shift in artificial intelligence and high performance compute processing, providing true comput and memory technology, announced the publication of a paper led by researchers at Cornell University. Findings confirmed that GSI's technology architectures can match GPU level performance for large-scale AI applications with a dramatic reduction in energy consumption due to high density and high bandwidth memory associated with CIM architecture. Maybe this was why Nvidia was down because this $400 million company published a paper saying that they can match GPU level performance with less energy consumption based on a different paradigm of how they associate high bandwidth memory with their architecture. How long has this company been public? GSIT. These guys have been public since 2007. Today, the stock is up 170%. Market cap's half a billion. And they basically said they're going to create something better than a traditional GPU. I don't know anything about this stock or this company. I just read the PR in front of you. again like is it healthy to say, "Hey, we published a white paper and we can use less energy to to to make better GPUs. Therefore, the stock is up 100." They haven't sold a single one of these. They haven't landed any contracts. There's no data centers. It's a white paper. I mean, come on, bro. This stuff is not real. Like, this is like, it could be real, but a white paper increases the market cap by $300 million. Like, what are we talking about? This is the stuff you just don't want to see, bro. You don't want to see this [ __ ] This is not real. Like, this stuff ends up fading. And I don't think it's healthy either. So, we got to see. I think it's halted, too, by the way, because it's not really moving. Let me see if it's halted on Weeble. Weeble still is horrible, dude. Weeble's barely moving either, but it looks halted. If Oak can make money, so can GSIT. Yeah, there you go. I mean, dude, I'm not denying the validity of their white paper. They're there. I haven't read through the whole thing. They probably did potentially come up with some amazing breakthroughs, but does that mean the stock needs to go up 170% for a company that's been public since 2007? Like, like people are just trusting that Yeah, for sure they invented a breakthrough on GPUs and just buying it. Like I don't know. It's weird. It's not weird. And again, I like I really don't want to see the bull market continue and a lot of nonsense run with it. unless they deserve it. And by the way, I'm talking about my own stocks. I don't think Robin Hood should go back to 150 until they have an earnings that justifies that. Robin Hood being at 150 155 if we go back to alltime highs on the S&P 500 would also be a joke in my opinion. As much as I love Robin Hood, but they they they have not put up the growth yet to deserve that. Now, in Q3, if they put up the growth, I think they should deserve that and a premium if they can really continue to execute. Whether it's a Robin Hood, whether it's a Nebus at 140, whether it's an Oakla at 190, a lot of these things probably didn't deserve to go that high. And I don't want them to just get back to all-time highs when the S&P, which is much closer to alltime highs than Robin Hood or Nebius is, gets back there. Just it's it's it's not reasonable to have those because again, whatever goes up must come down, especially if it goes up as violently as it goes up. And I'm saying this as someone who has a lot of hood. want it, but I want to hold it for a long time without dealing with these insane swings for no reason. And it it just it also makes people not that attracted to the name if it goes up this much and goes down this much because then there's no consistency at actually holding it. Oaklo is down a decent chunk on the day, down about 4%. The other thing about these momentum stocks is once they lose momentum, it's hard to get it back, dude. It really is hard to get it back. ESTs up 3%. I mean, look at him, dude. Hims has basically lost momentum for the past couple months with all these lawsuits that have happened. Now, HIMS is not a meme stock or anything in my opinion. I think HIMS is a phenomenal company that's growing, but HIMS is 80 cents away from going back below 50. So, once you lose a lot of momentum, it's and you have narratives form, it's really tough to get people to come back in and then the shorts get excited to to attack. Core's taking a hit. That's down. My Robin app still not working. Nvidia 184. Okay, so we got some Nvidia grain. It was at 181. Bit of a breakout. GTC is next week. It's going to be in DC. Um I think Jose might go there. So it' be cool to see what Jose has to say there. Weeble's working now. Let me check. Weeble. Oh, I think it's back. I think it's back. Let's see. Uber. Oh, yeah, it's working. All right, there you go. There you go. Yep. Okay, Weeble's back. Hopefully, Legend comes back soon. Robin 13590. All right, so at least we can use Weeble now. Bitcoin. There you go. Loading up immediately. A little bit of a lag, but you've got some more green than not. Ethereum 4,026, BMR 5323. SA's up 10%. Another biotech. We talked about them last week. That's up 10.4. Do you think this will affect Amazon stock? If it if it if it would have, I think it would have happened by now. Again, it doesn't feel And in four minutes, we're going to get an update from Amazon on their blog. It doesn't feel like Oh, hold on. We got an update like five minutes ago. Let me pull this up. uh it doesn't feel like the street cares as much or it doesn't feel like it's you know such an egregious error like crowdstrike that the stock immediately tanks. Uh we can confirm significant API errors and connect connectivity issues across multiple services in US East1. We are investigating and we'll provide a further update in 30 minutes or soon if we have additional information. Damn. Also, Amazon's not Crowdstike. You know, Crowdstrike was a what hundred billion dollar company. Amazon's 2.3 trillion. So to get a know 30% downturn like Crowd Strike, it's just hard for Amazon to go down 30. I mean, Amazon is a little bigger and a bit more important for it to go down as aggressively. S&P, are we at 670? Wow. 670. S&P, she's back even with all the hiccups today. 670 on the S&P. Three more bucks and we are back to all-time highs. Uh, and the good thing is we're not really seeing stupid stocks run. And again, I I don't mean stupid in an offensive way. I just mean a little offensive, but not just saying like some of these names that probably didn't deserve to go up 7,000% in a year. Oaklo is down 5% while the S&P is up 1%. I think that's healthy. I think that is healthy. What's another name of a random stock? SMR. Nanuclear. Yeah, Nanuclear down 4%. SMR down 79%. What are what are some other names that ran up for no reason that we don't want to see them going up? I mean, all all the quantum names are down. Dude, this is actually really bullish because if freaking Quantum started going back to the moon at the same time as the S&P, you would say, "Okay, everyone's just running in to buy everything and it's it's a clown market again." But seeing those names stay down and people buy quality like the S&P, like Nvidia, like Google, that's bullish. It's leaving a lot of that money behind and hopefully that money is not really going to come back and elevate those companies as hard as they were three weeks ago. S&P 670.3. She's really making a move for it. Big Bear AI. Okay, that's up 2% but it's down from 10 bucks. Look, I don't hate Big Bear, but has anyone looked at their earnings? They're growing negative 5%. Like, like I don't understand why the stock has any level of premium. There's no growth. It's an AI company in the age of AI and there's no growth. Like, what are we talking about? So, so some of these names, right, like they just it doesn't even I don't I'm not even trying to be super bearish. It's just like they probably don't deserve to go to the moon. And if they are going to the moon, it's not a good indicator of a healthy market. S&P right there 670.29. Fear and greed is at 32. That is also, yes, moving up, which is good because we're not in extreme fear anymore. So, that one's getting a little bit more more momentum. All right, they're talking about Let's get some coverage here. and see some more about what's going on
>> ago that there are significant API errors and connectivity issues across multiple servers in its US- East1 region. We're expecting an update on that within a half hour. Now, this outage first hit early this morning, knocking dozens of companies offline from government websites to crypto platforms and AI tools like Perplexity. AWS powers roughly a third of the cloud market. And the issue stemmed from a failure in its Northern Virginia data center disrupting more than 70 services. Now, cyber experts say it wasn't a cyber attack, but it does highlight how fragile the internet's backbone has become, especially in the age of AI, where services like Anthropic rely on AWS to run their large language models in real time. Now, compared to last year's Crowd Strike meltdown, which was resolved quickly but left companies dealing with manual recovery for weeks, this was a different kind of failure. As one expert put it to me, Crowdstrike shut down the computers themselves while AWS shut down the services that those computers talk to. You AWS's US East1 region has been a recurring point of failure for them. It is the cloud's busiest, most interconnected zone, and when something breaks there, the ripple effects spread fast. Morgan Stanley called the incident not helpful to already fragile AWS sentiment. They expect Amazon to issue credits to customers. Investors will have this in mind when Amazon reports earnings next week. Remember AWS growth has been lagging behind Azure and Google and backlog now trails Microsoft and Oracle. Guys, I guess one of the questions is McKenzie if if it has any kind of lasting impact in the minds of their clients, right? and and causes them to switch competitively. That's what we were all asking during the crowd strike outage as well.
>> Well, notably, OpenAI has not been an AWS customer anthropic. We've seen them uh diversify into GCP and this multicloud strategy to avoid this kind of disruption. We heard from the perplexity CEO this morning attributing all of the disruption that they've seen to this AWS outage. And it is a huge concern especially in this generative AI era where they have where these companies are hungry for compute and they are primarily getting it from these cloud providers while they build out all this infrastructure because all those OI deals worth $1.5 trillion it's not built yet and it's not coming online for at least a year. Got an update from Amazon. We have confirmed multiple AWS services experienced network connectivity issues in the US East1 region. We are seeing early signs of recovery for the connectivity issues and are continuing to investigate the root cause. Okay. So, they don't have a full root cause explanation yet. I mean, I know a bunch of people said there were some DNS issues, but I would imagine when they fully investigate in probably 24 to 48 hours, maybe even tonight, we're going to get a full reason for why this happened. And maybe, you know, the stock is not absorbing the actual reason for why this happened. But we'll find out later. Amazon's up 1% on the day, 215. S&P still holding 670. If we could get a 670 close today, folks, the bulls might be back in charge, but we're going to have to see if we can hold that level. Tesla right there, that's up 1%. Pounder up 2.4. And then Hoodie still holding up 5% on the day. AMD, is she running? AMD, wow, back to 241. Is that alltime highs? I think that's alltime highs. Yeah, AMD all-time highs. I probably can't check resistance. Yeah, hood's not working enough for me to check resistance, but um 24151 today was the alltime high on an AMD. Okay, not too bad. Not too bad. AMD was a big one this year for a lot of retail. Crowd strikes at 496. Bob is up a bit. IBKR is up a little bit. Cisco's up a little bit. Oaklo is still down, it looks like. Crowd Strike again 496. Delta's up 2.5. Rocket Lab 69.28. Let's go back to Weeble, see if that's working. My price target for Amcor is 45 to 50. I'm assuming a doubling in uh sales. So from like 6.3 to closer to 12.9. But that's towards the end of next year. So I think there's about 20 25 bucks of upside from these levels uh going into the end of the year. Rocket Lab 6915, S&P still holding 670 and then Amazon 215. ESTs. Yeah, Weeble's still being slow, dude. Weeble's not fully fixed. I still can't search for as damn. So, like some stuff is coming back. My Robin Hood app's not working. I can't make a single trade. So, that's Wait, can I Oh, hold on. Is it coming back? AMD just loaded for me? No, I can't. Well, it's been an hour since the market open. I mean, you might have a Robinet and a Coinbase seriously think about moving if like I mean, they're they're going to have to get some compensation from AWS on this. Imagine the amount of dollars Robin Hood's losing right now. Like imagine the hundreds of thousands of trades that are not happening that could be happening because of this. That's where you could have a little bit of a bare case for a Q4 guidance. Amazon might say, you know, CrowdStrike said this as well. It wasn't that big of a deal, but the point is it did hurt their growth estimates. Amazon might say, "Look, we had to give Robinet a, I don't know, $10 million voucher of AWS credits because we lost a lot of money for them on Monday, October 20th. if you have to do the same for Coinbase and Slack and you know you just there might be some compensation that Amazon has to give out if this really gets bad and that could be a deeper issue. Um Oracle still down on the day. Yeah, I'm not sure why Oracle's down. Didn't see a headline on Oracle. It did rally a lot last week though from like 270 to 303. It's at two. Oh, wow. It's down a lot today. No, I'm not sure. I'm not sure the headline. I'll see if I can find something. That's weird. It was holding 295. Gold is still up and silver is still up. Here is a new chart over the weekend. I thought this was pretty incredible. Take a look at generative AI web traffic across the board. Meta, hugging face, Glock, Grock, Claude, Perplexity. I mean the the traffic share has increased dramatically for all these services over the past 12 months and it looks like more and more and more will continue. Now Gemini continues to steal a lot more share from OpenAI. Uh Gemini is still top five on the app store but Sora from OpenAI continues to be number one. I look I look I've kind of concluded the the the video apps on AI just after a week of using them. I don't know if they're going to be a winner. I mean, like, I think they will get some audience. And I know they're growing like crazy, but part of the thing that makes social media fun is seeing your friends on social media and people you know or like celebrities, right? Like people that you want updates from. This AI stuff is like it gets bored pretty quickly. Like, does anyone else feel like that? And I don't know, bro. I know it's number one in the app store. I know it's beating Tik Tok, but like how many people really want to scold through AI generated content enough to to the point where it beats like user generated content on Tik Tok? It probably is too early for conclusions, but I don't know. I just kind of felt like this is this is missing the point of of of social media. The whole point is to connect more than just to see random AI generated content. Uh, Robin Hood may have to spend on a backup if their main server is down. The backup should work automatically. That means paying extra. Well, the backup's definitely not working automatically. It is still down for a lot of people here. But it's weird, right? It's like, you know, whenever Steve says, "Oh, the bullcase for Netflix with AI is I can tell Netflix to generate me some type of show based on a prompt." I'm like, "Yeah, that's that's that's probably cool." But like I I still feel like someone's creative vision manifesting in content is what people want to consume more than them prompting their own type of content. Not saying there's not going to be a massive market for prompting your own content. Just don't know if that's that's what people will connect with long term. You know, like the reason you go to Instagram is because you want to see your friend's bachelor party. you know, AI can't replicate the the the memories of your friend's bachelor party, right? So, it's I don't know. It's just it's not the most compelling offering to me from OpenAI. And if that's what they're spending all these data centers on is more AI slop videos, I just feel like the ROI is not going to be that aggressive. And by the way, so Nadella had some beef over the weekend with Altman in terms of what he said. So uh the information reported that OpenAI could spend more on servers going into 2030 with Oracle than Microsoft and OpenAI's growing compute needs uh have led to the end of its exclusivity with Microsoft deal. Microsoft executives are worried about the consequences of overbuilding data centers. So basically the information got some quotes from executives that said hey we think that the data center buildout for open AI is becoming too aggressive and as a result we don't want to finance and be a part of the amount of cloud compute that OpenAI is going to need for these data centers and so it's okay if they use other parties aka Nadella saying hey maybe maybe a divorce is not the worst idea here and we're still going to keep some of our assets if we get a divorce. which is probably around 30% of the company. But we don't want to really be associated with these guys building out as much as they're building out because we don't know if there's going to be that much usage. Now, in OpenAI's defense, their argument is people are underestimating dramatically the amount of capex that's going to need to be spent and you know, we're going to need trillions and trillions of dollars of more. And Nadella doesn't necessarily disagree with that. I think Nadella is just not sure exactly the route that OpenAI is going to make that happen. And so, as a result, you might see that breakup happen towards the end of the year. But we're going to have to see how that ends up playing out. Uh, videos are expensive to generate. They need to monetize those relatively quickly. Yeah, that's the other thing. I mean, like, when are they going to start putting ads in in these? When are they going to start putting ads in chatbt in general? Dude, it's kind of crazy when you really think about the world. There's not that many ways to make money. It's like people pay for something or people pay to get other people to pay for something. Like, if you really sum up the world, those are the two business models. people pay you for something or they pay you to get you to make other people pay for something. And so, I mean, there's not that many creative models that ChatBT is going to go after. It's either subscription revenue or advertising. And until advertising ramps up, you know, subscription revenue is just not as juicy as what the potential of advertising could be. AMD right there, 242 all-time highs on AMD. So, it looks like AMD is getting a bid today. Maybe with a lot of the Jensen talk over the weekend, Nvidia, right? They're up half a percent as well. S&P, look at that. 670.5. Maybe maybe we're going back to 671. That would be a official. I mean, that would be what that Let's do the math. That is closing in on if we hit 671. Yeah, that's 4%. That would be 4% from the bottom from the bottom on two two Fridays ago. Even Hoodie 137, a 4% move over the past two weeks would be very nice to see going into earnings as well. Navitas continues to move. That one's moving as well. And S&P very close to 671. Nvidia, that's up 1%. Tesla up 1%. Then AMD, look at that. AMD is going for 243. I guess all the semiconductors are moving in unison today. I don't see a major headline on any of them outside of the Jensen interview last night, but it's enough to get them moving. What about APIs? Yeah, but APIs again like it it the the the categories are so broad because I think they encompass everything. API is you're paying for a product or service. Like there's two business models. You either pay for a product or service, whether it's a subscription, an API, and you're you're paying and you're getting a service, or you're paying to get someone to know about your service. And there is a god knows how many trillion dollar market, aka the pay for attention. You either have someone's attention and you're monetizing or you're paying for their attention. And so like Palunteer provides a product, they get paid for it. Google provides a product that allows other people to pay them to get people to know about their product, aka advertising. And it's like I I don't know how else OpenAI monetizes. Their API is a product that people will pay for for API calls. Their subscription is a product people pay for or they're going to have to get advertising because into the system and, you know, really start showing ads on every query because the amount of queries that they have every day without ads, one could argue those are tens and tens of billions of dollars a month they'd be making if they do it effectively. S&P really getting a breakout right here. 670.8. SoFi as well 2817. 671 would be really really dope to actually see on the day. Amid at what point do we start considering these runs on more legit names to be too extended? What growth rate inflection would you consider to be a signal of a top? I think you have to look at their earnings projection. So again, when you look at Nvidia, uh if they're going to do $1 of EPS in 2027, this thing trades at 25 times earnings or I think it was it's 27 times earnings. So if they trade and then you have to ask yourself, is 27 times too expensive? I I think the answer is no. Meta, if you assume their earnings forecast, don't even get aggressive on what the analysts have. They're trading at 25 times forward earnings. Google's, I think, is at 24 23 or 24. Now obviously the Teslas of the world are trading at like 200 times. Palenters are trading at 200 like those are super super but also they're growing way faster and you know they're getting a bit more of a premium because of the potential of their growth. But in terms of a top signal for the most important names in the market like in Apple, like in Nvidia, I mean the multiples don't seem so aggressive to the extent where you would think it's 2021 and Meta is worth a trillion when there's no way in hell Meta should be worth a trillion, which is not why it's not feeling that crazy. Okay. Yes, let me correct myself. Tesla is is not growing at all. Not even growing faster. But the perception of Tesla is that they will grow faster. And again, you can't put Tesla in these conversations because Tesla is a unicorn. It's a different name. It's a different breed. No other company can get away with what Tesla gets away with. So, the perception of their ability to 10x, which is how Elon's going to get paid a trillion dollars, is what keeps the stock elevated. But that's not a signal of a top to me. Now, Nvidia, if Nvidia was trading like $350 right now, like yeah, that would be weird because like Nvidia has not put up the growth and there's still a lot of risk associated with the broader capex thesis for Nvidia to have that much of a foreign multiple. But again, when Costco is trading at 50 times and Nvidia's trading at 27 times, it it's it's hard to scream like that's a bubble. That's probably not exactly the best definition of one falling knife. Thank you for the $200 super chat. Appreciate you being here. Hope you enjoyed Italy, Mr. Falling Knife. He was in Italy for the past couple weeks and hopefully you got to spend some time with the family and have a good vacation. Appreciate you coming back. Google right here. 255. That is green on the day. SoFi. Wow, dude. Should have bought SoFi last night. I said I was going to buy it. I didn't know we would be this green this morning, bro. I thought we would be kind of flat to choppy like we were on Friday. Well, we just opened up green, which means I don't know, maybe we'll have a little bit of a dip during the week. But if we can keep this going, break alltime highs, maybe we don't need to see a dip. Wow. 671. We are $2 away from alltime highs. And there's not even a crazy headline this morning. The the biggest headline is that Amazon is messing up everything. Besides that, no other updates by Amazon, by the way. There there's no other crazy headlines. The China stuff was kind of yesterday's news. Uh the Nvidia Jensen interview was yesterday's news. I mean, we looked at a bunch of macro stats, but those aren't major headlines. China GDP was last night. It seems like it's just people coming back into the market, right? Or maybe the headline is no one can sell because Robin and Weeble are down and that. Like that would be hilarious if that's the reason, but I I I I don't think that's the reason we're getting this big of a boost across the board. Look at Hoodie. Even with all the problems, 137, Tesla's up one, Pounder's up two, Rockle trying to close in on 70. Uh and then AMD pushing 242 as well. Yeah, October 19th, by the way, yesterday was uh Black Monday, 1987. S&P and Dow were down 20% in a day. Could you imagine if we had a 20% draw down in a day on the S&P? I know we kind of had something like that back in April. It was over the over the course of three weeks, but if we lost 20% in a day, bro, I don't even want to imagine what would happen. We lost 3% two Fridays ago. People, you know, people were just like, "Well, I guess everything's done." You know, it's like, and granted, everyone bought the dip, which is so far worked out, but still, it's uh it I think just think psychologically 20% down in a day would wreck everybody institutionally and retail. It would be crazy. that would get bottomed up so quickly, dude. 20% means Robin Hood is probably going to 50. Tesla's probably going to 200. Palent is probably going to 60 70 maybe. Grabb's going to like 5 cents. Reddit's going to 95. I mean, like a 20% S&P draw down. I'm being too generous. Reddit's probably going to 30 bucks. Meta is probably going to freaking 300 because again 20% on the S&P in a day is usually 30 to 50% on individual stocks because they trade at a relative premium and beta towards the S&P. It would be a hell of a dip opportunity. It would be a hell of a dip opportunity if that happens. It's just no one would have money, right? like we'd all be freaking down on everything unless unless you have some cash on the sidelines. By the way, speaking of money, uh Bank of America's survey of institutional investors show that their cash is at an all-time low, 3.8%. So, it's not just retail that's buying the dip. It is not just retail that's buying the dip. It is also institutional fund managers that are, as you can see right here, having the lowest cash level in 12 years. Now you could think this is toppy because there's you know everyone's into the markets or you can think it's not just retail that's piling in it's institutions which is less toppy because then you have a mix of market participants that are buying these dips and this was as of last week. So this was after the 3% draw down um which you know likely means that more fund managers ended up buying more which is not too bad. SMCI is up potentially on rumors of an XAI contract not confirmed, but that is the reason why SMCI was up 7% on the day. Look at the S&P. It's not stopping. 67120. 67395 is the all-time high. 67395 is the all-time high. SMCI right there up still 6.7% on the day. 100% correction coming in 2026. Now look, history is on your side if you think a correction is coming in 2026 because it's a midterm year and midterms are pretty damn bad for the market. But there was a ton of reasons to get bearish in 2025 on a historical precedent and that didn't end up happening. So, I don't know if it has to happen in the same way that people would think it would happen, but 2022 S&P was down. 2018 S&P was down. Both of those are midterm years. So, the most recent midterm elections we've seen, we've just not had a healthy move higher. But we also didn't have the AI tailwind. We didn't have the Fed easing in 22. In 22 and 2018, the Fed was hiking. So that is one way that it makes 2026 legitimately different is you have a more friendlier Fed and then you have real earnings growth and that is I think the best retort to all these arguments about well if you look historically yada yada it's like well historically the earnings growth has never been the way it's been and in 2026 if that continues then maybe that doesn't exactly have to happen in the same way. Yeah, September is the worst month. I mean that wasn't that wasn't true. September was a phenomenal month. August was a phenomenal month. So, it's like it's just like how aggressive do we need to have 2026 from a from a from a structural perspective either on the the macro side, the AI side, the capex side, the earning side, like what needs to break to make the system to break? I don't know. I don't know what it needs to be because every time we've thought historically something should break, we haven't really seen that break and we've had earnings to come in to to show us that it's hard to be on the sidelines in this market. CleanSpark still up 10% of the day. Again, CleanSpark is up because they hired someone to officially manage the uh the data center business. Jeffrey Thomas, senior vice president now of data centers. That's why CleanSpark right there up 13% on the day. Uh, we're going to have three interest rate cuts next year. So, I don't see markets correcting until 2027. Yeah. And dude, like every year if we if we keep saying, "All right, the correction's coming. The correction's coming." It's the most anticipated correction of all time, which is good because there's so many people expecting it and we know what the markets love to do, right? They they don't like to go with consensus. And so, it might not be that easy to call the top here if every single person is trying to call the top. I mean, in 2021, again, how many people were legit calling the top in 2021? Like, yeah, I I, you know, I wasn't live streaming every single day and keeping up that much with sentiment around the broader markets, but like in 2021 when Bitcoin was at 69,000, it felt like it was going to 100,000. I personally felt the whole NFT stuff was kind of stupid and the web 3 promise of technology. I I felt like a lot of it was dumb, but I wasn't out here. I was I was buying pounder at 27 watching it go down to $6 the next year. So I definitely was not the person who called the top. But like who legitimately said yep like there weren't a lot of people calling it and that's why it happened because like almost no one was saying it. I mean what what what famous fund manager said 2021 is a top. You know you had a lot of people called the 2000 top including Howard Marx. Like which famous which was it Bill Aman? Was it Buffett? who actually said, "Yep, we are in a bubble. It's a top." Who was pounding the table? I can't even remember a single big name. It definitely wasn't Kathy Wood. So, if it was no one back then and that's why it came up behind us and now it's everyone this time, I feel like it's different. Feel like it has to be a little bit different than before. Now, Tom Lee got bullish in 2020. He even admitted it was a mistake. I mean, he did a interview a while ago. I think we watched the clip where Tom Lee was like, "Yeah, Tom Lee said my Mark Newton, their technical guy, basically told him to start getting bearish and he ignored it." And he said he said, "Next time I'm going to need Mark Newton to like really tell me to pay attention because, you know, he ended up not realizing how bearish it could become." And then they ended up missing the uh the downturn. So even even Tom Lee did you know that did not there weren't there weren't really that many prominent figures that were like yep it's a bubble but it ended up being a bubble sofi 2847% it looks like she's going for freaking freaking 30 looks like she's going 430 Um, Michael Bur, well, no, Michael Bur said to sell in January of 2023. You guys remember that famous tweet by Bur? Bur sell tweet. He deleted it, but this was the tweet. 7:00 January 31st, 2023. This was when Tesla was still at 103. Palantry was a seven. was like we bottomed in December 22 or October 22, but January 23 was not pretty. It was only until around March, April that things started getting a little bit more exciting uh in terms of a potential. That's when Chachy BT started making more sense. That's when Nvidia had that quarter in May that like blew everyone out of the water. So, there weren't that many people that really saw the damage that could be happening back in 21. NVTS. Uh, I don't know why this one keeps moving. I mean, at this point, is anyone getting a bit concerned that it's just moving for the hell of moving, or is there something legit for why it's moving? But it continues to move. Na'vias 20% on the day. Does anyone think that's justified? Is that a real move or is that just hype or is that legit? I mean, they announced an Nvidia deal last week. It's up 400% this year. It's up 145% in the past month. I I just don't know enough about Avita, so I can't say, but I I do know the Nvidia partnership was legit last week. Bit of a squeeze. Yeah, honestly, that's probably it. 28% short float. That's probably what's taking place right here. But Navas is, you know, one of the only names that's squeezing like that. I mean, a lot of those other names, maybe Rocket Lab, a little bit of a squeeze. It still has 10% short float 7164. SoFi still 8% short. I mean, not enough for a massive squeeze, but potentially a little bit. S&P still holding 671. Um, and that other stock we looked at, GSIT, it's up 182% on the day based on this white paper that they put out. Na'vias is more of an energy story. Maybe it's worth a deep dive, dude. I do not know too much about Na'vi. Maybe it is worth a deep dive. $3 billion company, so it's a very small company. We'll put it on the list. Maybe there's something deeper we have to look at. I'm just looking at the velocity of the move and wondering like, is it actually justified or is there a lot of people piling in at this point? ARCG is up 8% today. Wow, dude. You got a lot of Dude, today feels like an everything rally. Look at that. RCG up 8%. Now, here's the thing. This is why I think today is pretty bullish. Oaklow is down 3%. Like, you really really want to see the markets get back to normal and not have a lot of the froth run with it. And if that Open Door, look, Open Door is up 3%, but Open Door is not making all-time highs. It's it's it it's been months since it was at that 1087 level. So, you know, if Open Door was blasting to $12 today, that probably wouldn't be the healthiest, but it's not. And if you're an open door bull, I think it's healthy for it to normalize around seven, not lose seven, but also not blast up to nine for no reason until they put up earnings, which look, I don't know as much about Open Door's new changes, but I don't know if their earnings are going to be amazing because at the end of the day, you know, they still have to make money on selling houses. But if they do a earnings call that's a bit more innovative, you know, gets retail excited, gets the street to see their vision, you know, maybe Cass can communicate a new future for the company, maybe they do a video call and, you know, really turn it into an event. That could be something that gets people more excited about Open Door. Uh, Venmo's not working. I mean, PayPal probably works with AWS, which could be affecting Venmo. Ire's up 2% on the day at 58 to 62. Fermy is also down. Hood making new highs of day. S&P still moving 670120 along with SoFi. Legend still being pretty slow, but we are seeing these continue to make a move. Apple's old is Apple alltime highs right now. Holy crap. Apple just hit alltime highs. Wow. 26157. Look at that. Shout out to Apple. Alltime highs. That is very nice to see. And it's justified. It's not just Apple's going up for the hell of it. The iPhone 17 reports look pretty damn bullish on this upgrade cycle. And so you could argue it's a justified move that you're seeing on Apple. Like I'm seeing a lot of healthy things right here. I'm not seeing Oaklo go to the moon. I'm not seeing quantum go to the moon. I'm seeing the S&P recover. I'm seeing Apple hit alltime highs. Apple is a company that should be hitting all-time highs over a lot of other companies because it's freaking Apple and they can buy back a 100red billion of their stock and they do freaking 90 billion of revenue every quarter. Like, you know, you're just seeing a little bit more of the fundamentals come into the picture. And then you're seeing Nvidia and AMD continue to make a move as well. And Apple helps the S&P, right? Apple is about um 6.3% of the S&P. So, not too bad. Not too bad. Can you sell anything? Let me see. Can I load it on my phone? No, dude. It's still not loading. Dude, it's been two hours. This is pretty bad. This is pretty bad for Hood. And I know it's not their fault, but it's still pretty bad. I'm going to try to open up Coinbase. No, my Coinbase isn't working either. It's not even loading. It literally won't even take me to the login page. It's just stuck. Wow, dude. And obviously Weeble's not working. Yeah, that's that's pretty incredible to see that type of a hit. Palenter right there, they're up 2.4 and then Robin Hood still up 5.9. So, big winner of the day along with AMD 241. And then if we can get a 270 close on the S&P, I think that'd be bullish. I think that'd be super bullish. So there you go. A couple of you guys are saying hood is going good. I guess you know, mine's not working, but I guess for a bunch of you guys it is working. Oscar, that one's moving up. Where's UNH? UNH is 361. That's green on the day. Oscar is green 5% on the day. In terms of the heat map, I should see pretty much all green. Wow, look at this. Oracle and Apploving. That's it. That is all you've got. And a little bit of T-Mobile. Well, you got some Walmart and and Coca-Cola and Pepsi, but outside of that, everything's green. Everything is green. Yeah. Look, if you're on Schwab, IBKR, Fidelity, or E Trade, you've had a good day. You've had no issues. But if you're on Hood, Weeble, or Coinbase, you've you got hit. We don't know if it's a cyber attack. I mean, Amazon didn't really disclose anything yet. Probably later tonight, we'll get a better update. Still no update on their website on exactly what's the root cause, but we'll find out later today. All right, folks. Uh, I think that is it for the day. Hopefully during the market close, it'll get a lot better. I think story of the day is Apple all-time highs, AMD all-time highs, Nvidia trying to break out back to the 185 and then the S&P recovering while the random frothy stocks are not moving at the same velocity as high quality companies and the China stuff is deescalating pretty significantly from last night. I think that's bullish. I think it's really freaking bullish knowing that in nine days we get a rate cut. So you got Tesla and Netflix this week. You got a rate cut next week. You got Trump and Xi next week, potentially Trump and Kim Jong-un. Um, and then you have the broader AI capex tailwind that doesn't seem to be slowing down based on all the earnings we've seen. And hopefully in the next coming days, we're going to see those earnings continue along with the market recovering without a lot of the frothy names going up with it. I mean, that to me is a pretty decent story going into earnings. Pretty decent story going to earnings. Then potentially, yeah, based on what Kevin Hass has said, maybe the government reopening by the end of the week as well, which would be bullish. Yeah, I'll be back for the market close. I mean, I'm going to after the market close, uh, I'll be going back home to my parents and uh, celebrating Dali with them. But I'll be back for the close. I'm actually going to see Steve right now. We're gonna get some lunch in New York. So, I will be seeing him there. And yeah, we should be back on the market close and keep this going as usual. But no other crazy headlines today outside of it seems like just the broader market starting to get a bit more of the earnings excitement and that seems to be coming back. I will send your regards to the milkman. I will send your regards to the milkman. It should take me like 25 minutes to get to New York. I'm I'm pretty close. So, it shouldn't take me too long to get there. All right, word of the day. What do we got? Word of the day. It's a long ass word. Um, contemporaneous. Contemporaneous. I feel like I've heard this word before.
>> Contemporaneous.
>> Okay, there you go. This is what happens when you don't give me French words. I can actually speak them. originating, existing or occurring at the same time. Okay, cool. Originating, existing or occurring at the same time. I guess cor contemporaneously, Hood, Weeble, and Coinbase all got shut down due to what happened this morning with Mr. AWS. So, that's what we got. That's what we got on the day. All right, folks. That is it for me. I'll be back on the close. Thank you again for joining. I'm sorry the flow of the show was not as strong as it could have been. Hopefully this stuff gets fixed by the close and by tomorrow. I'm pretty sure it should get fixed at least by market close, if not by market open tomorrow. And uh we should be we should be in a good situation. Three updates. I said this last night. I'll just say uh reiterate them here and then we'll be done for the day. Uh Cactus Jack again, he has officially joined the stream uh full-time or joined AK Media full-time. So, if you guys see him in the chat, he will be helping me with the show topics, prepping all this stuff and uh you know, he's been in the chat for the past year. So, really happy to have him full-time and it'll hopefully just make me a lot more efficient at getting breaking news and hopefully help everyone else who needs a lot of that breaking news to get through the day. So, we got Cactus on the team. Number two, I said this last night, the meetups are coming back in 2026. I had a really good meeting with a management agency on uh Saturday and uh we have not officially signed a deal, but essentially I'm looking for an organization that can really help me with planning, security, logistics, infrastructure, all the stuff that it takes to travel across the world and throw these events. And uh I think I I think I found the people I'm looking for. So I will let you guys know updates on if that gets done probably end of November. But I have a pretty good feeling about it. And uh the person who set this up is someone that I met in Miami who has 40 years of event planning experiences. He owns multiple nightclubs. So it's it's a really good mix in terms of the type of people I'm looking for. And the meetup should be coming back next year. And I think it'll be really exciting because the meetups have been pretty successful in 2025 and I think we can take them to the next level next year. And then um yeah, the final update is just the Substack. I really appreciate people subscribing to it. Really means a lot to me. I am falling in love with writing. I never thought I would say that, but for some reason I I really enjoy the process of writing. It's just like it's kind of a new challenge for me. I think I think I've been talking for so many years that I was looking for a new way to express myself and I guess the written word, which I genuinely never thought I would become a writer. It's it it's fascinated me. Absolutely fascinated me. And so, yeah, we have about 12,000 people that subscribed on Substack really means a lot. Dualingo BMR for the first two deep dives. I think there's a lot more content that I'll be able to put on this platform outside of just deep diving into companies. Like when Robin Hood has their earnings and I want to write up all my thoughts on those earnings, that'll be a deep dive into Robin Hood's earnings. So, I think there's a lot of content that hopefully people will be able to enjoy. And uh for those that really like reading research, this is uh this is the new one we're going to be doing. So, you guys can subscribe there. It is free. No payw wall. There won't never be a payw wall. And uh we'll keep going from there. I already started working on the next two deep dives. I already started working on it. Literally Saturday I was like, "All right, time to work on the next one." Like, it's actually I don't know, bro. I'm getting into my writer era. Maybe I become an author, bro. Maybe I write a book. Maybe I need to write a book on how to be funny. Maybe that would, you know, maybe that's maybe that's where this takes me. Who knows? We're gonna see. We're gonna see what happens. But, um, no, I really do like writing and we're going to keep doing it over the coming years and see it see it go from there. Romance, that's what I need to do. I need to write a book on love. That's what I need to do. That's that's that's what we got to do. All right, that's it for me. Thank you everybody. I'll see you back on the market close. Hopefully this stuff is fixed with uh Robin Hood and Weeble and AWS Australian PM meeting Trump in about 30 minutes. We'll get some updates on how that goes and we'll see if we can close above 670 on the S&P 500 again. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.