Everyone One year ago, this channel has a show, fun-sying the people this day young people, there's actually there's a lot of people broadcasts, a lot of people, many people, about, there's a true-send and young-sum-kind of not-e-n--hac-n--n-poh-l from the country-to-the-same, from the country go to high-wide. yet the business's the work and the mother was young and but were not without without all all and to run to he and from from when started from start to end and and also and still more and there and then to get out of Yuen't and these stories one of the one by one exciting I'm I'm sure I'm to get to everyone people everyone people people everyone all that's than I There are the people who, these words are you using life's energy, mowcoyed, you know, there's sweat, it, and there's people, and to give people's hope. Semen is a song, song, and it's go back. Hope is God's give you the free of the gift, with hope to go on, chending, and haming, you're a-o-o-o-and-wha-moon, you're in Thank you, thank you for the people, and people who's In the other many people very chenewing said "I ame a too-eached-sacete, in the road on that said, I think to the people saying, "Ear not is a good one, and that's in the show in the show me-chew-tchee of people is those shrews, and those-shron, and so-chee-chee-ren, e-nought-chang-kogh, yath-hap-ed-hap-ed-oh-haping. From your story down-tron, I can't-not-that-one-the-kind-a-old-old-y-hye. A one and un-cru-ling-deen old yu-min Kye-a-kru-heir, how-pru-all-loughed a little bit of a small-hue, with a bunch of assay-with-all-she-carry-tinked. By a few shawl-cuited, and it was left out of a foot cut-to-cha-se. He went to the matoe to the most-eigh-eck-cac-cli-kin and the few-hue-cuh-lach. I'm from young when I started to read this book and I'm now I'm and then I'm and then take it this is a good year but it's a good this is a story. This story gives people and it's not than that's not than the great-e and that's many He let us see one is one in a one in a one's in so to show out of the everyone's the doing the some some some get about and get there some and in this in this in the time different people and you and it's there's some the way that and honest, and you and and show it's a a quite to be very you know you and and you because this is this one you know and you're making it,,, I'm, There's this young Who's It's For quite just be Quinted in But they And they're and the Went-Ten people in the in the people have been There's There's Rue Nis Borgue. The Ruehue In-Chy The Court People It's people Tohurt people There's There get-e I was going to I was going to last year in Kerala Soutu-in When I'm trying to give you people and the at the inn's and the and the people and he's talking about and it's it's a just to go and back This channel I'll be broadcast over nine I'm and the the message people's not you're saying that and it's to the show and it's the show and it's time and these day and it have had any time it's the time it's the and people and it's Out of the great story, there's many people have made full-eat-eathing of opinion. A way of the people said, thank you, YouTuber, the work-mong-lough all the time so-day- to be at the time, when it was, and then feeling life to life to life, yes, and if you're living out just a, that why not why not why not the why we're not, then, and yet still, and I, and I, love this the people, This is not long, but unhound's and unhound's sense-kind and and the long-year-old pain-weigh. Worked monged a day and then-home-heartedly. This is we're not sure the scenes and feel. Last day, bar, not just is the body, and it's a sort of a lot-lay, We are always for life-bent-bbed-to-child-man-law, in a day-few-a-day-a-monged, in the way-to-do-do-the-wit-cruing, our belief, our passion, and hope all be slowly smear. We've ever been made man-merep, we've been motted. But this is this way the people He said The show the next time and he's talking about reading the word my my own and I'm There's some one of a single common knowledge a one one a point and can't like a point like a time soon through we and turn to the people people bring us to us give us the we're giving us to the people In that show in, I said, in front of time, in the world, that word to life, this word in fact, this word in a lot, is from the people's news of the time in fact. Every time, every day, there's time, every person's ever, and everyone's life, an end up the time, a person, can do it, can't do the end in the end of people, to find out of the dark in the world, to see why, for out of the darken, don't know and make sure, and we're in looking to find out we're looking our own, we're doing good people, we're doing people, we're doing social have some good, and it's a way-seye and we're waiting-to- we're- looking to find- things. If I'm not, we just feel that, we'll get to feel, we're not, we're not, This way people strongly to be life to see one, the view of the view of the he tells we're in the in the future we're we can make make make the the very being the message there words there life and life and why why not why I'm and why why I'm This is the end of the word in the most I get to a shanhand of a He's re-sertinged We're seeing a new time We're used to be able to live-to-do-of-drawn Toe's-de-so-darned to a more than-a-one We're making What's-Thered something, get-to-scequered What-T, and get-earned, and it's, But-doin-st, but-due-st-cue-n-stle. This is a word to remind us. "Hawatern't even is a 'is a very certain of a moor-drawn but is a great "'If we have our life "'tanking our life "'tank the entire state "'to will change "'We will just see every day's "'their end up to do it "'theirchee' "'pahed to bea' "'With this way, "'theirer' talk "'tiegaping to change "'in'" In the last, this way people say, "Tain-Yo-in-y-all-wain-y-all-wain-were willing to love this not-want-mere-one this is a true-su-er-cise-bigh- and-scibly. This is the world's-do-do-s is not-mere-to-one-the-kind is a new-chern-kind-kind-the-kind. By getting this not quite is still still want to be like this is a way of the this is a choice do it not by not not really too too and it's the world and all the people that and through and then and over it's always all This is a true, and a subpoe of a sense-eastern one. A few people say, many people not people people say that's all that can't can't keep up and to people and to people and to the No one will for the other one all the day-a-a-beys, even if it's the future-to-do-heat-do-do. This is a done the set-soothoher-hack to point. He's point-mings a big question, is a great-tie-stress. China is a person-euf-sing society. Every person all to keep people do, but just just doesn't know to take it to the same, to the I don't know the person's the responsibility is to be the responsibility one who can take to the same people not can't take to their people and the people, to the society and the country. In this what's the world to the world, the person, it's just using the three of the He said to do you to do you to get the same down the self responsibility all the without you and it's to be you to be you to make you to be in a certain in a person in a person just like the way people people say that that every people people people are people people are people If you're already, if you're saying to you to be the person, this person is a king, you're taking to their own life, to get to control of control. If you're in one of the reason, we're not going to get away, or because of a certain reason, not yet yet to get a great way, then, you'll get to create a The individual's responsibility and care is people often and there are people who are their own, it's the people are causing, it's society and all over the those people and it's these years, the way, the word-and-the- own-sendism my father my father my parents, I don't know I'm going to get-in-the-court- I've been from-the-art, the kind-be-cuh. and the grand-to-care thing to the impact is very that's not the way, but if you but he's a life to put on the whole she. He will grow-to- young, young, it means it he says, it from the future-the- people, he has to be a person, he has to if we know, when he His responsibility is to be it-toeuxen family's of the human-in-ings-in. Many of the question of the people who are not, meaning, who's in hand, but, and in the eyes, always ding the Hosekin, but do not bougham and out of the way far as far as far as the person who is in their own hand, he will choose to find out, and In those In those In the Incheon There's One of One of Many people People People's They're They're They're They're There's In fact In fact There There's There's They've lost at the On the On the free time, but the end up On the These years, I'm often heard people say, If you're If you're If you're It's not To be able to win to In this In this, young people don't have been There's There's Now, now competition too hard I'm I'm too hard I'm I'm not of time. The world is a important a way of but he to every everyone always the people but it put it to put it to the community and it and it put into what in the end the framework and in the question the human and This is a by the par you chose to some pay, it's not the one if you're not the not by not pack, just thought what this time, but is not the end, and we just will the lack of people, I've got to talk of the part of the people, he said, and thank that and I'm a time, the most hard to give the good doing the the lot to the He was from in Jiangxia, high-town, and then, after, in the same-eat-o, he chose to the marketer, he chose to come to school, from the small-o-time-the-est-year-way-wean, and in fact the office office, and then, he washington, by the last year's office, and he from now, he began to get English, five years after This channel's people have how many their cheap-pour-shawn than their life-point-one-quest-peau-seat, but is not to keep on the cheap-pour-saint. And not to keep on the cheap-pour-saint-sha, is her strong-lead of personal-the-person-kind, is her to the life's the responsibility not that of the society, to the country's "GAGAGA-the-court people from the people from people from law all people want like that the general character and in the person's there's the same time and such as well such as such as there's the reason one is the history one reason one is the country is a country is a country of people, one-eufu-y-foo-y-few-y-hung-chern. This one-send-a-few-y-few-shered-kind, that people's-cony-few-estab-y-kinds, and is a human-few-y-fetched from a sub-oly, who are not a unique-rexed to-becky. They were There's all There's There's There's grander parent's There's young and then and then And then control there In general their own in their life and in their social and in the people And people seem way It's the people from a small by guan-suant-sue to the country, to the society, to the family, to the kids, and to be the and to the parents, but the, but the person, the person's the person, is the one-the-team-sa-in, is that we think, but be one-and-er-gene. The second reason is that that's the one-being The first-day people have been the same-day-ma and-neye-n-n-nigh-noyne experienced a country almost boughban-a-cuit-the-shevary. One-sour-sets, from birth-to-scivil, the whole-shron-sum-guid is been arranged and be put-pied-the-per-ed. This being anpired, be-fenpays-kind that people's always for our own-wind-quois-the-sort, with the people's own-weregrossed, you know that way, that's lost-the-one-kind-your-being-the-est, though now, the full-nonged-nown, but it's always quant-being-old-kind-old. Withsoucheon men, still want to move to the system, put me down to the government, forget to their life, for each other's life, and look, how-tank-donged-tall-drawn, just to give to their own life's the "What great reason.'" The third reason is "Chair"gown" Some Forms, "Lewscian"Law"" "...however". "Chiefs what, "Chair"trak what, "tse",cough","tick-chewsuch"chewsuch"chews "chewschews'"chews' "turefowhs' "chewsuch"chews' "tuch"chews' "chews' No one's What's What? Howchee's What's the What's One of One's Like a Newark Siener's And so Dueue Bytee Toe Toe They've They've been Be done Toe make Toe make Is it to personal responsibility is the question is just the first one. Next question is how to change the first person. I think there's some key points can do. First, is to find out what is they can't change what is can't be able to? This is to get-asen human-she-key- This is this way-to-year history, is the Prou-Mas-Douya Shoebite's trans-tron. In the previous In the show in I've been one of the one In the year or next year I'm going I'm especially talk a Abbe Kettite The Rends The Rends is first find out what is what is it's what is it's in this one down the people The world's the part of things in in our control five ways we're not we can't control the world control the and we're can't control the we're can't control the we can't how can't how you and we can't get to and we see what Puttong people can do is through self-nour-n to get-each-sac-ach-eat-eat-eat-eat-eat, keep health, and withholds, human-key-guan. A-one-a-one, will put a lot of time and experience to those those can't control on not going to spend time and get those people not going to be able to be able to be able to bea and I'm The other is from the way-down people turn to to make-s- into the state. One person one by them by people who would be doing people say, I'm how much un-shing, I have to un-comping, the way people, this way, this way, this story. This one-send-suff-hack-sign-type, this type of the life-suff-hirt's story just will bring to people in-shaned-hung. A good-the-same to-few-the-same, will be a kind of self-know-know-the-same, not-so-hack-styn he will go-shund to think, I can do what? In life's In a life's He wouldn't Just be Why's Why's I'm going But I'm I'm going What's my One's the Next bit Can't do What? One way One's One's One, He's just Byte the person He's He's He's He's He's He's He's become a To be a There's also important is to get in the is wrong. Many people don't want to be able to it's because because of they're afraid. They'd would be able to be a short, and a way, but an life, but I'm trying to try and try and there's there's just there's there's, there's there's there's there's there there's there's there's there's there Especially the young people, don't know not far failure. Niening is the first end of the life. Even if it's failed, there's there's a chance from the time. Niening when you don't be not not free this money. A few people, will be able to try try and will be able and will be able to try and for the short-up of the result to take care of the truth, from the wrong to learn, and then-tall-in-farmes, from-to-to-seller. This is I from many people's in the people's read-out-li-all-y. Again-spect the people's today's said-one. Next-Chi-bye-bye. Thank you.