Everyone, how. Today, say a Qiang is is a American society's particular issue. Last week, the American Balsholtz-Po-Po people, he was Cesaracass he was at Utah a school at a year-of-o- from 200-mai and came- hit-john his get-to- his get-to- soon, shembo said, and I'm Charlie Kirk was in his time, had been a great-support, and the same year, in 2013, year, end, Tijuana-Svarez, was a child-earned Kemp-eat. Three-year-old students and three-year-old students, and three-lawyer-huelly-hurt. A week ago, Charlie Kirk, also, was in Yautta, was in Utah, at Yautahou, at There's a one of the people who asked him, every year there's a lot of people by the time to diega is worth. Charlie Kirkland said, I think it's worse to have a cost of unfortunately some gun deaths every single year so that we can have the second amendment. Every year, there's people who think, we think, this day care is worth. We're doing so can only have the second shoolder. Charlie Kirk used to is a a bigue He's a person He's not in a person people who people who people who people who say I'm said I'm said I'm people people who people don't like if you don't just you don't put to put people the deep things and it's not Here, there's also to say it, regardless he say before what, drew down what, in the land-sue freedom of human-suit, using the shard-and-and-and-concult, is not-jean-crowed, was un-cath-becko-de-law. This series, we'll talk a-of-you-chong-quern and the first-sent-gynist, and around the second-shell-in-cuit-mine and the lily-lund-lis-migh-and-and-tent. As a name Qiang's owner, I support Yongchang right, and also support the Second Suresin'an, but also the second year and the Supreme Court's, can't say, the second-year, not just is a law-fairn action, it's a case-of-sue fact-the-the-counter In half a decade, Qiang became the American religious and and cultural-party the plo-o-pahs is the Communist-I-N-o-o-sheet, which is a main-kind-heat, which is, the "Boose-Po-Po-Po-Suan "obey-scent-of-kinds to the Senate-Far-Tewer "o'er sultan-one to the "Go-Po",...their-one-Poieter, "Co'Po", the most of the people people though support the but the the particular such and the long on is light without it would lose the between the in the in in America and in the most the and the key but it's being and being a self-o- think the people and the even by being by the individual the symbol the In the time-day-Megu, chicheng-quen can be called "2nd Amendment right." The Second Amendment right. The American "Intyrequent." "There is a one-gulated "A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed. A 'I's "Qanly good people' ''veighed' 'Zewa' 'an' 'to' "arevian' "'People' ''Men' Yen'Ungue' 'we' 'hury' 'to' 'to'''is' '0'0'8' '0' '0'0' '0'.' '0' ''9' '0' '0' '0' '0'''''' '0'''' 'o''''' In the in the part-year, in short and ten-year-old-year-old-year-old-old-old-year-old. By the second two-year-old-old-connum-hound in the third-year-old-old-old-old-old-old-old. In the first-old-in-old. Alina Kagan, for the highest-Fa. Lawyer's not-Fa-Fa-Fa-June. There 80-0-million-man, and Congress-Dak-Dong-H-Tanee-Rae ask him to ask her to ask the most the question, just also how to look at the 2nd 7thia end, and asked him-you-mell-you-mere-old-lawed. Kagan was named as a lawman he called-the-counterer law-eastern-Calia, the court, tell her how to do that-Lead. Two people's and the political and the Kagan was being is the free Scalia da, is a big 2016, year, Scalia had a many take the Kagan, the and the "yes, In Huylerman's hands, Kagan, the lawyer-saired the first-to-do. He didn't because of learning to the 2ndtrial-earned the kind of. It would be back-tolde St.caliya's law-can-a-da-fartan to get-du. But he certainly is fully-eas-to-estab-its in the U.S. in American's-the-M-Kews in-V-V-Ru-Ruhring and the weight. And, and, and, you know, and-s-the-one-the-of-the-in-hack. The second new is born in 1791 year 12th in 12th in the in the history in the he was a time was a time long the year can't say it was it long it and long years The entire 19th century and 20th century on the end of the Lawyer's readdue-the-trial-of-sue. Lianbondt's set-gueshuechard was lyele-wethe. There were a science-faheuf-year named Adam Winkler. He's just written book to talk the second second-oferenged. The battle over the right to bear arms in America and shang-janked American around the chow-chang-chion-the-chion-the-chion-chew. This show in the showment of and say from the Winclair's book. From this book from this book leitue's history to see how, the second second in the time in the world, in the world, can't live up and is with the the end of the things and the action In the short of a word is So, it's so much Even though Even though Evening, is our We have one our own our own state of the right But it now the American American people is a situation, in the situation. In America the world In the one, it a time political movement A time culture movement "bhue 'jave to get in the same-of-scient-fought-farmes "'and can't be the way fount, "'to the political-gen-and-and to the religious-gin-sern "'and to present a shie-shing-ish-thing-in-hand.' "'Their-two-chewscian-kind-wing-jewed-jewscient-cruid-so. In 2008, year, The United States had the second the second to the government get to the world history the and the different change in the beginning in the time. The country and the country The National Rifle Association, get-sened-N-R-A. Its main-out-the-the-counter-R-A. Its main-to-use-hung-chang-scied-teconged-darm. But, in the 1960sons, the Buc-Chiiyehs, started the goal-in-rown-back-in-back-to-govern-cund-crow-crow. To achieve this, to the booker, Bucon society's the main, is to re-chewed the second-issue the second-o-chew-established to do-ach-of-the-cure-the-cuit. He also, he also, the American Bar Association, get-ed-in-a-b-a-a-a-a. In 19965, in the United States'Inty do-were, to show-word, the topic is how to get-due the two-sue-er-sue-er-shellings-of-kind-she-day-chang-ts-chang-te. Aux-Gas-Gasurer, named after Mr. Schroeder, he inkedenged a pen one-john, in the American Lawsherststead and court-in-exam. This piece of The pen Ine Righte The Court of The Seconds Act, he was in the both of both of the government and also also, and is the in the time, this is a very strong In 19971, it is this pen one time award-in-go-the-sixth year, Sprecher, by NICSoon-Zone Renneming the Court, named as the United States and the Sprecher's this pen in the American Lawsci Journal, the ABA Journal, the abeat after, and the many of law-scher and lawyers, started and the the second-shoot-and gettoed to be to protect-wee to-he-man-one, not just to be the community-te-chang- but the entire 1,60-0-1-1-70 the full-60-nion did not get not yet not yet not yet The turnstead was in 20th century of the last 20 years. That 20 years, you've given went 125 panels of the 2nd of the law school run. Which is the part of the second new new future protection. Some mean un-of-gene the fact-sue can't, it's been the this time the turn-sing movement of the special non-ch--ch-e- Which-o- one- called Glyn-Reynows. In 19995 In the Nauts rebu said Over the Over 10 years In fact the second period in words of witty the year and many of the country country not be bribue to be free to the student research Some of the recent words of the lawyers, is directly sold in the Bucan society. In the 21st century, to the second yearn, to, the second year's, which is to, to, and to help people, keep, chief, chishang-chern, this And so, the of the moral-true sound-e more weak weak-de-le- in the get-gues, in the in-the-sue in-sue in-sue--sue-sue and that many, and, and, use, to get-e-e to the "Eye to the They're in the judge in the case of the court to find out the right-in-ecent-eers-the-un-one-yto-eight-eight-eight-old, in 1980-day, this form-fah-law-law-lawful, is from-quahecent, the In the 882, Ingeon president Remying Ska-Lea as a general law-sru-in-lawful court. Four years, it was in 86, you know, he was named him he was the court and saying to say to you should to keep a Disted by the 2nd Act to get-to-wee as a person and the teacher, not quite be all-over-so-z- There was a main-o-sue-sue. You-weean-Lews. It's a down-d-svary type. He also support the second-stect-a- action, and in the second-suechews, protect-control. Kise for the small-suit and and loist-christ to fight-ming-chuanquins. He from from the main-kron-goying in the to get-to-know-to- do you some of the worst-st-cuit- to-he-st-cuit- to-know- only to-know-chion to be to be able to the in 19963 year's Mayn't Mayfield was a time Keth was the Yoloo University and he students she's she's to the back Klae Los and help the local the and a one and people said so the people because the police the law law and being the people so this way the people not who's who's Kise's, he had a time. He night night day-in-a-e-e-bu-chang and a one-law-oer-soul-saw-chang to that way-weeck to the new-cour-court-door-court. That done of the year-in-lawed-of-he-court. 20 years, it is in 1998, K.K.C. has already been a student. He in Michigan Law Review, in law review, the law review, is the first-chon-in-ling, and the two-year-old-huechewshoot-and-bit. This is that piece of the paper. This pen one chapter, this pen pen question, and through the He thought, the 2nd Chowdhuryin Act in the human rights, not just is the country, also the government's community, also the community, this is the direct-in-so-executive, can't say, is, is true-execut the second-faheus-law, become in the other show-dent-allon-fact-un-lawful. At the time, he also deneding 25 years ago, the American's high court in the court in the court but in the in this piece of there's a period case's the point point in not in the point in the not in the majoring any any of the Until 1889, Yerl-Nevah Fahuechurchan, The Yellow Journal, has published a true-fellianian-lawful Levinson's run-win, leading-garde, the second-suechon. Levinson, piquing, Jingin, Fahceist, in the second-cheworthean's new readdue. He's the two-suechewson-and, and the first-eux-in-in-in-y-all-hound, ballhand-hound-law-hound, and it's-rereve-law-law. In Levison, in, the second under the second and the two being not even to keep the Qiang-Py, provide, it's a law that's the first-obey, Levinson's is law law is the law law law and protect between and the government within find out of in the law in fact the also it also must make you make sure that in my government in the state under and change and change just social time and have there's law law rule and that is not there's so some there so soon In 2003, in In 2006-suits-turb and yule-in-ya-in-you-know-you-how, the Qiang-Chang-Cent movement, and the first-eastern when it was ensuinged. Ting-Chang, all-tube-heed-to-sufficient. And, got-h-heed-law-she-the-cest-lust-court. in the city , and choose six young co-steads, in the court court, to sue Washington-Torchoo-Donged law, and "Comb the law"trak law."....................... in the state, Washington's....... Sixth of one one of the court in the court named Dick Heller. Heard, he's on the time when he has to pay down his government's law law, but because because the state of the law law, after in the care, but cannot put on the power in front front front of hand. He said, he said, in the country, to put down the same way, this sentence, be rejected. It's a heller is for the anti-cundingingingingiancourt. The In-Chang-Pai of the lawyers, in the re-gall and be-gall on, they've got a great deal of the United States. Inmate, again get-told the second-suechosen-an. The second-suecheworthen, "Deer Sautneran Act, and also to protect the people's chief-cheworthen, Scalaia, the lawman, drawled here the pan-judsew, pan-jure-shoot-sun-in, pan-jure-sus from two-combe, one is from due-faat, from law-off, fern-law-exe, and is, from history-lo-shoe, tithe-faheufat-in'haw, entow-li-lifur-the-er-established, from the first-the-er-change-in-all-win is two-cue-cuit-su-cerned to-chchurned. A-st-guyen-hand-haw-de-an-being for protection-so-be-hue, this is in-dou-tong-jury. The people-nove and carry-wap-wif-be-cuit, this is the control-court. If the front-in-down-conjury, is to the front-mean-crow-chong-jue of a certain thing-dent. It's sure, the whole-jew-word-all-called-called. If I went to think if I think the Indo-Rongued and we're not the final-the-being- The main-being- about-min-being- and the is can talk personal human-true. Tradtons- on, Fa-Sue and and the two-o--h-d--the-one- and-a- non-a-tie- and-ent-ding- and-e-n--in-the- people-the- people-the-ccue- and-be-be- not-re-re------ment. As to the Q's Qiang Chion Movement's some key, some of the and some people started by the second action and the two two cur deduced to be free-scenting relationship, and it's the government, is just a support the security and not to change the ground, in the language. In any it, he is not, it not, it, he's being not the human human and using and carry the key to the key to the core of, Heller's And the pancreating And it's Ones the It's not a non-stained-kinding relationship He's It's not people people who people not just is just mean but also all people This is a get-d meaning in the Second Act born born 217 years after the highest court's first by the people's young-chang-quern certain-weighed by the human-being, and not just is the main-being's community. Heller's-and-the-pand-a-sha-sha-u-a-you-seous-a-year. He not only found the two-chewson-and, and read-uped-heat-a-li-li-heat-a-li-stuished, and yet-gue-lert-reacted to change-dict-duechew-tack. You five people support and then four four four people and John Stevens and and John Stevens' and drew more than much almost all is the four part-bord and You're which is Steve and's David's law and Scalia's law law ledger's the history and the history. Of course, it's also, it also, the general, in the in the case. In the one of each one of law, is every one is the people, and the people, both-fong-fang, do you find out to their true-efficient and the and the American all the country is huge-of - you'll be able the same the country different different ones, so, from the history in the not that the way, is support or to find a certain and the different of and not the the all can't be all More than the fustre in the Qigang Chion problem, a lot of way getting a great-weighed and all these concepts, gazaed the different history. Many people, is by the truan-che and in the tradition. In the history and people's in their lives to come together, it's just all around. And it's For example, that's said, in the war, a piqued army and the army and men's to the east-bue, and yet-in-law-send, to find-the-state, that time, is the time, was the time, the time, which one, the time, the time, the time, the story, there's the person, called Samuel Cout, he got into the Zohr, Kauta, got into the Zohlin's show and design. He was a car and the producter, Kaukett is for in-southsons, he was for "Youftsincee's Zollongue-South gunned"pict of a "o-Lewitness"Zo-Leguie of a "o-eat.'" a one-one's-shoeckle-scient, the human-cout, let them, peeped. This was the time-olde Newz. Niuzeer, chimes, chival in quong at the west, and be a world's imagine, is a could-wort-hue of a picture, a word- and, children, and then-s-o-shr-sou-scied-sue-shrsha-ed the-shy-ty-ty-tie-s. We all know American's this way the way the way is the first teacher James Adams in 1930 in time made to Adam's to American society no un-of--thew freedom is the the most due In no law, the Manhaw-Shoe, Niu-ZE-W-Zer, by "Keyn'Lew-Shawrne' "Yeshawrown"tile' "What-Nobacco'Urower' "Their//////////////////////-chion-kind-chang-chang-tion With this on the history of the people The people to the People's to the Ceychew To see each all can take all the But, the history is a history is the a lot of the and the people's people's The people's the the the Yaris, there a small town, named Moubae, Toomstom. This name is a name itself, it was a manned down the same thing. The name was called the city of the state. In the world, it was a city-beau-the-state city. In the public, in the world in, it, it, it was un-fat-wet-chon-chew-thead-chut-tun. Lye. Moabee's government, in its guiseer in-rangee-farmes in effect, he did not be able to carry-chang-shan, we're going to fine $25 million. This is in the end-jerkull-in, it's not a bit of small-chain. Like Mubyzener, a hundred-year-first-year-state the city-bue-town-in-law-per-any-other-concound-all-per-old-old-combed-old any-concrow-all-hore. Quangy in the country's power of the not the non-as-is-you- not even common far-sion. Niu-Zer is a society-the-s man-sing-sach- time. Every day work is working over the people, no-of-' never-en got even said, it even people, you know, it's very saying- and say, who's in the world people in the people than what was the In the south of the border end of the time, no law and the case any of the court's, we've been at failed to not without the material. It's not not really uncied the government made li-seeing men, and the court-shing, actually, the, the, the country, in the state, the time, the time, the time, the time, and then, the, The American's direct-to-h-h-haw is the England's not-sue-de-cru--sue-men-the-chang- government. The revolution is to leave the country, the free-e free-e-e all-e each-o-e all-o-e--court-e to-chion and-e and to-o- Every other people's is is to be a lot of land of the king-s, the need of the oil be sure the power and all the place. The free government, for the state, the end of the second change, this also the time. That's the At the other Zhou, they'd do you their they're in front, their country, they're trying for, you're concerned. They're doing it, As a state, the court can't the will be able to keep big and the and we're But, but the thing is than more than one one one of 1812, the 181, 182, the the US and the people and they were and the countries can be defeat, and subdu Waller Washington were by England and he That time time that time it's a line the one way, it's like the think it's not a big thing to think it not even the way, then we've changed, the fact and the people and the general general that's the new thing From these basic history to see the fact, the law and the law and the law and the history in long-year long-year-hue-huehue and that he's not a single-to-one a new-to-one-old-eat. 1812-Ean-Ean-Ean-Ean the U.S.E.E.2nd he's to try-to-de-de-court-tow He's so-backed the strong-de-legged military already-so-to-its-all-to-since-la, law-toecent, and it has been the state, the federal also got to all-o-o-o-le-o- government-e in-suei-dye- in-of-e in-same, even can be the second-o-sure and it. There is the main-bbing- down-d-the--state-the--cissue--cust-—but-so-sus-o-sus-—and-sus-n, rather not-vis-st-n, but it's-the-stst-the-sign-s time-tiechang-Chion, using the world's history and thinkings, by the almost-be-earned the second-establish act, redget out, via the way, using with the theory, free-euvre, it's the new life, it's, it's his the fact, the and the court-and- the process- and the state-of- Some of the phohert Levinson, like Adam's Winkler, they don't back to re-fondt, but they're not doing to change the two chourens. But they're not, they're not sure to take a kind of form. One word of the other shoo-dron-and, to protect-chang-chew-kind, and the government-hocon-court-fing-chang-z. It's not sure-for-pore-porek, but it's can't in the framework of being-cund. The point is how to get a point-earned. In here, we use Winkler in the one-quiler's in a word. This word said, the goodfoo-men put chie-chang-quered in the U.S.S.E.R. But they also also support and control the law. Those law the end-gues even can't in the American people in the American in the people who get In the US, combinging and the history and the two curranting act is the first Winclair's in his story in the world. In American history in the United Nations, there's about the rule of the law, it's all over the country, the the state small-in--hac-of-e car-of- people-the-court on- the road on-calf- cross-z-o- cross-o-o- crime-so--cinct-like. Dighted to the hotly There is more than more than than did it and they're soon as they're to get a take to another year and cross-as and there's there's there in that the government so that the law and design all the of country, and I'm a lot of you, I'm not, I'm, but I'm, and I'm, and, and I'm, I'm, and, I'm, you know, but, and, but, and, you know, and, I'm, I'm, and, you.., and, I'm, and, the, and, but, the, and, and, the, the, and, in the-you, and the men, in the the Because of the countries are much large national law be it is a top of the end of the people set to a base on the state each every country can't create One in a big city issue, the city-in-witching people more, especially, she's shot-chang-fin-fund-frey more. So, people-ne-cute- the nation, and the state, the power, is a bit more and in the land-and- and-cherns city-as- city-an- problem, not much too-tut--cuh-cuh- counter- without, though, t-c--p-p---p-c-tring-p and-c-s- not-just to-in-cccccccccccc-cccue. The time American's control and when people often with racial conflict, he's-kind and party battle-and-do- people do-and-of-e between, by the state-suit and the people free-ce-ebigh--ebi-de-d-d--d-d-o- this-d-d- that-of-e like in the Hale-N and the point. Ting-chang-Pai and Cone-chang-Pey-Pey-Sew, often is, as in-do-the-te-tree-sheets, from the "Pand-Rewsue.'" Helle-Ein'an-Chicient, the "Itskjohns' The United States' "Things, '0'0hcounter' "oveneputtun law's' "'Yes." Even though Heller's on, via the second-year-olden-an-an, by this hand-putonged-fahed-farmes, but he didn't completely faulting the cune-chang's her law. He just is to be able to consider the gun-chang-sit-law, the right? Hella's panthe in the world, the religious system, all of some people, by this pencure and then as "Saheanism.'" The fact of the law and judicial originality. But, many people, even in the law and social and socialism, but So, "sign-souin-svon-Lie'"" "Onebigh-to-been-been-belled "Oh,.'" The vogue"""""" "...is' "Ongoism", and in-Scied" "...is' "...is' "o'" "...is' "...is' "...is' "...is'", In the law and in the law and the law unconstitutional the right of often is to try find the traditional pan-liy-dict pan-jud. There's this kind of have a sub-eepu-sure and it is in a good-be-sefein even to go-to-to-look- and-the-sher- Helleran's the pan judge is to go way to and the and the conis-the-of- not-of- a real-sci-sue not-s--fus-o- a very-o--sup-o-suit- and he is the general-sus- court, named Richard Pozner. He even even thought he-le-an is a w'-ean- is-e-ean- He at Balshau-Poongue and the New Republic can't look a opinion, said this pen pen to find law in fact that result on, in the result, all become problem. He's the High Court in the best-called lawyman in the statute of sent-fa-and-kind when, sui-since-so-wey-wue to issue, chide, chide, add-ined too many issue-sting-tight-so-lial. Pauzez, the law is he's the case of the court to take a fundamental dedu, which is the right of the least of the rights, is not the protection, not by the federal government crime, by the protection, and the power of the people, it's right, This is it means that Scalria the court's case law to the second second shuling-aned the get-of-seudo was just get-sue-sue to get-sue to get-s-for this, it's got-in-fat law-the-sion-e in-eat-D-Shi- this is-Ca-Las-Ca-Fa-Fa-Fa-Pocius the piquing. Pauzana, the law and the publicist's right, he put a more than unisputed and open, just to get through the statute, be to get the court the court, it is to say, to the law and the law and let the in the different in the world in the time, do the He's in the law law-guer-lawful the first-eastern is the real-earn-z-z-z-z-z-o-e. According to the state, Li-siener by the law-sher-change to the court, just the way-took the statute, and not be-songed-fant-tall-win. America, Lee-Siener, is a person-a-sought-norn-o-sha-ssoci-oed-oed-o-nonged-oer society. Leighianer not the time America met in the issues. For the American were the American not not that the against the threat not see without the new crime and not see not without the big and without If you want With Chieuang's over years Li-Science to the human to do the time of the country issue, obviously is lowly hum-nue. Scalia Dahlia power, Paulzner, law, who say who said who said there's more more do you, no, In I think, Helleran's a crime-in-presenting not a result, it's not as the post-Naner, it's not as sui-sight-you. Wooning said, he built-in-lawinged, he's making-all-figh-in-fought-of-suechew-thing-and did-so-court-in-job. This sort of this far-nournruly in the time-day-n-o-o-er-sher-she-court. And, In 10 years, in far years, the law-schwer-gate's for him did it, for him, the way-it-as-as-eus the right. The second new new-the-the-sue to the future is to ensure the people, and we're being in hush-and-a- long-heed but the American people who people-to-he-cahn and not with the time ceased, and it's still during the still-the-s- and it's- un-w'-e- Heller and tried to cross-tenthsuit, and by the Second Sautron Act, is the time of the moderns of the United States. Auxeshoe-Fri-Dermine, he brought the lawythe-suitary-to-shoot-the-oferredman. The time-day-Mey-Chi-Things, "Chang-Sewscian Only a little 5.1% of people think the chie-chang is just the community and the community. At least, most people also people also support the government to do the country, just to how much to be able, there's a lot of fun-s-exed. Heller's There was no other than There was It was about this half-century It has been The B.O.S.C.C.C.N. The people, with a sort of "Isbathed by a way, in a way, in fact, in fact, in certain, in certain, during, the second, during, he also, he can't the government have a right in the line in the line, the law, under, under, the fact, and the, If you're people's the chow-ritching not get, the people the world around the rule of the rule and the question going to continue. With Winkler professor to say, is this this time around the trial and the time, will be continue and it will be To the Hale Act's in the law law law law is free, can say, can't say, can't, but there's very clear. This is the point point by the been like already over-st-the- two-o--state-in- with the American society and that the end-of-the- law--and- got-a--all- and-s got-ed- At least at this point, Scalya's da, the court is successful. But this is not this is Koechewskiy's the "Sepaer's own-stead-sied of success. Chaheut'shack and the other, hella-andthi-kinded a sort of "Iriongianzzii "'vite.'" He's for work the second new change-in-and-tial-word-e, not is the liqueen-seigne-eat-eat, but is through trans-sinducing, to re-established, to the new, and new-heat, we use Friedman's view. It's aftsure is the time-day-Mey-Mew a man-in-a-Mew-Meguze, even-in-cue-chew-in-cuit-in-cuit-in-o-cuit- Charlie Kirkger, said, every year the case case is only the second issue of the need of the need of the cost, he's the debt is worth to the many people people not people, even at he after he saw he himself he made he American, not many senators by the second court power, there's people, even the family, and they're all the people, they're holding the their and they know, they're they're to be a new un-e act, it's to be making to can't and the people, and When the shotgun-ass-in-end, they don't want to meet their law-stretched-caughts. They don't even think of their life, including Charlie Kirk's, are at stake, for their job. A few years ago, a great-year-Houltzis, had made out of great. He said, "Hendee Hook' "Meygowne's end up here "'Mr. A' "'Make North China' "'Chance' "'Ah, America, "'and it' "'and we've got it, "'that's just the "'Sandey-Houk is in "'Kennie-Kee-Kee-Kee-Goh-Oh-Chewschen-in' "'That incident, "'the-sit was on the Shemdye. 20-mings and 6-mings were shot shot and 3rd school in 10 years, yunnan students'n age at 6 to 10 years. On the last week 10th, that time, the time, the time got into 3rd Korka over a minute, Krola-a-Dosue school, and also, and, two-mings-chion, and the same-shrone, and the gun-shoe-key-sach-sach-sachar. Every school and chanedon, when people, in the people, in the bifen-fing, all seem to bea-scient hope, and the country, or the state-e-height, can't make sure, but every time, it's all due so long, it would beckon in all the social, and the normal in- the rest of the same the same the same, the same, the same, There are this one "Fauching government's responsibility of "Way-Wood' "...even to beaute-o-sue and as a power-o-suey and as a "'But, from "'their-of-the-the-board "'is-sihers-the- "'This, "'is, it, "'is, "'is,''. "'Their-Po-Soo-I-Soo-Ey Yenmey way from the to real estate, from the end of unbi-in-the-kind-of-the-being, as a human-men, as a real and right. Chahe-Chi-Mepa-Fa-Far, is in right-of-is-guan, is in the free-sthue to make a free-o-cuh-suit. In Tordered, in-sher-in-sher-o-kind-of-o-o-o-human-sher-kind also meaning the community. In 1:::. In 8.23. The US Supreme Court would be in each plan in charge in one of the power. "They have the authority for seeking to "Signight other. For the people who 'Ingy-do-taheut. This is a long-sense-tang-tanked. "Innshury.'" In a movement-ssocieted a part of the "overnsertrown-tile power of "'Toow-o' "overture' 't of a debt-cha.'" "Lostfay not only is the "'Nawfeyer that one of the law and the right of the law "'itur' "'This is 1823-23-year-old-year-old "'the-old-three‑half-year-old "'in' "'in' law-cureure "'the-old-three–you-old-three-go-tif "'and-year-old-all-hury-hue "'to-chew-huehue "'the-cuehue-chue of chue-cue to-hue to-chue This is the United States' the tradition. Today's talking. Today's said all. Next next Bye,