[Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Tuesday, October 21st, and well, we've got a pretty interesting pre-market. Uh, in terms of what's going on, there's a lot of different headlines, a lot of different narratives, a lot of different stories that we'll get to cover. I think the most important thing, even though there's a lot of things, but I think the thing that a lot of people might be seeing right now is uh silver getting hit getting hit bad. 5% down on silver and gold is going down with it by about 3% and copper the same way as well. You're seeing the commodities for the first time in almost I would say a month actually having like a meaningful hit uh in the pre-markets. Usually these things are pretty green and so you got a lot of people wondering so far in the pre-markets. Hey, is this uh is this the beginning of the commodities officially taking a breather? potentially not continue to go up one or two% every day. But we're going to see. But we're going to see. Isn't that what your uncle is into? My uncle texted me this morning saying he literally sold all of his silver yesterday. He literally sold all of his silver yesterday. He was like, "Dude, I'm pretty good at timing." I was like, "That's an impressive sell. I'm not going to lie. If you sold at 54 and this thing's now at 49, that's impressive." He still has a lot of copper, though. But he got into copper really early. So, um, he's in that trade. But yeah, even I wake woke up this morning and I saw it and I was like that's a nasty cuz you know when if silver loses certain key levels it's not that easy for it to just get it but it's not like a stock where they can announce something and then boom it goes back like commodities are more based on macro cycles supply and demand and not necessarily earnings growth right there is no earnings. So it would be interesting to see if this 5% draw down is just hey it was running hot took a little bit of a breather or if it's like all right we're done with commodities and we're moving on. But we're going to keep attention to that story see what we've got going on and keep going from there. We got a lot of updates in the world of AI. The Wall Street Journal published a massive, massive story last night around Nvidia Open. So, we'll talk about that and see what we've got going on there. S&P 500 67162 in the pre-markets. We closed above 671 yesterday, which was very bullish to see. Uh, we are $2 away from all-time highs on the S&P 500 even in the midst of some of the volatility we've had in October. And we've got a lot of the macro stats for October that we'll take a look at. But uh it's nice to see that the S&P 500 is at least doing okay and the broader markets are doing all right. Bitcoin and Ethereum as well. Bitcoin basically flat on the day 109, Ethereum 3,800. Nothing too crazy there. Both of them have been relatively flat from yesterday. The Mac 7s have done pretty okay over the past couple of days. Now Amazon 218 even after the massive AWS outage. Meta back to 736. Meta was at 690 last week. Google breaking above 255 once again. And it doesn't look like the Max 7s are necessarily in that bad of a situation. Tesla right here at 446. We will have Netflix earnings after the bell. We're going to still have technical Tuesday today. We'll do Netflix for like 20 minutes and then we'll have Jason on and we'll do technical Tuesday. But uh Netflix 12:45. I mean, it's basically where it was at before the last earnings. It's still up about 30% for the year. So maybe this is the breakout quarter, but Netflix will be having today and then Tesla will be happening tomorrow. and we will keep going from there and see what happens. Aman is on CNBC. Really? Did Bill Aman go on CNBC today? Uh, let me see if he's on. Oh, wow. He is on. Okay, so let's uh let's let's listen to Aman for a little bit. See, get some of his perspectives and then I'll get into all my stories. But let's pull this up right here and then we'll keep going from there.
>> York, I care about this city. I've put a lot of energy in keeping this city safe. um you know the polls the facts just tell me I'm not going to as a fiduciary for the you know the shareholders of the company and if you can locate the business in Miami and eliminate 21 percentage points of corporate tax he's going to do that right so the you know the matching New Jersey and forgetting that there's also New York City uh you know uh New York City and New York State uh you know taxes here is just going to destroy the city
>> there are national Republicans they like New York but they don't live here and they think Republicans win the midterms if this guy gets elected and becomes that
>> the Democrats have a real problem whether they endorse this guy or whether they accept him like because it's just
>> okay so it's more politics I thought it would be business and stuff about the markets he's trying to get Zohan to not get elected it is what it is dude that New York City election is going to be one of the most anticipated elections I personally believe Zoran's going to in because I don't know how Quomo beats him in the polls. But we're going to see. I think what November 4th, November 5th, we'll see what happens. And New York will have to live with the choices that they make. So, I guess uh I guess we're going to see how this ends up playing out over the coming weeks. I am curious what this does to like national uh politics when New York City, you know, New York City, San Francisco, Chicago, these are the major cities that kind of set the tone in certain areas. So, I would be curious to see if he is elected, kind of how the national political landscape evolves, but we'll be covering that in November when that ends up actually happening. Okay, so let's get into our macro stories for the day and then we will keep going from there. We also had a ton of earnings this morning. Coca-Cola, GM. So, we'll get into all those earnings as well and we'll uh we'll see what we've got there. I think let's start off with the uh the Nvidia news. I think let's start off with the Invid News because I read the story last night and I could not believe what the Wall Street Journal said, but uh it really does sound more legit than not when you think of it. So this was the story that Wall Street Journal published last night and the idea was hey how Sam Alman tied tech's biggest players to open AI. The thesis of the story essentially being uh that Sam Alolman is making sure that Nvidia, AMD, Broadcom, Oracle, all these companies, they're not going to succeed without him and he's going to make sure that OpenAI becomes too big to fail in case they ever think that OpenAI could fail. It's actually a very smart strategic move that uh Sam Alman is planning, but it's also kind of crazy to see how he's doing it. Let me read a little bit from this part of the article which I thought was fascinating. So on June 27th, the tech site the information published a report saying that opening II had begun renting Google's TPU chips to powert causing something of a stir inside Nvidia's Santa Clara headquarters. I think I was live that day when that when that story actually broke. At the time it was well known that Openi was looking for ways to reduce its reliance on Nvidia. The startup was busy designing its own custom chip with Broadcom and was also taking a close look at the chips offered by Nvidia rival AMD. That spring, OpenAI also signed its first cloud contract with Google, raising the spectre that it might begin using its chips as well. After the story was published, Jensen called Altman asking him if it was true and signaled that he was open to getting the talks back on track, according to people familiar with the matter. Hang realized that Nvidia could help OpenAI by making a direct investment in the company. A person who spoke to him said Nvidia's exac account then posted a screenshot, if you guys remember that, of an article when OpenAI denied having plans to use Google's in-house ship. Nvidia and Nvidia ended up signing an agreement a couple weeks ago to lease up to 5 million of its ships OpenAI, costing 350 billion by today's standards. It also has the right to invest up to a hundred billion to help the startup pay for a deal. So what happened? Basically, if you go further into the story, the Wall Street Journal says Sam Alman tried to make Jensen have a sense of FOMO. And the idea of the FOMO was exploring ways that they could get off the Nvidia reliance that they're on. And one of the biggest competitors to that was Google's TPUs, primarily because Google's TPUs are not like massive massive competitors to Nvidia GPUs, but the the threat of them becoming competitors is something Jensen probably doesn't want to deal with. And if one of your biggest customers is going to use those TPUs, well, that'll warrant a phone call. That will definitely warrant a phone call. And so, uh, Sam gets Jensen to get scared of Google, then gets him to invest a hundred billion and tells him, "Okay, we're not going to be, you know, working with Google." And then three months later, the deal is announced. After the deal is made, Sam went and gets deals with Broadcom and AMD. And by the way, you can tell Jensen didn't know about it. He was on CNBC two weeks ago and they asked him, "What do you think about the AMD deal?" And he, you know, he he basically threw a lot of shade and said, "I don't know why you would give up 10% of your company if you were so confident in your chip." And you could tell that Sam Alman probably didn't tell him, "Hey, by the way, we're going to go get some more deals because, you know, that wouldn't probably get the hundred billion dollar deal done officially that Jensen made with him." Uh, but he gets that deal secured and then goes and gets other deals. The punchline is that Altman is ruthlessly trying to make sure that if AI ends up becoming the transformational technology we all think it can become, he is going to be at the center of it. I think this is kind of scary and amazing to witness at the same time. The reason it's scary is because OpenAI cannot fail. These guys simply cannot fail. And if they fail, the the lynch pin of how we think of AI as an ecosystem probably fa ceases to exist. I mean, you've got other competitors that are out there that are probably going to make a good attempt at making AI real, but OpenAI is the one that is intertwined with these billions of dollars of contracts with Oracle, AMD, Nvidia, etc. And so, we're going to really have to see how this ends up uh playing out. But, nonetheless, that's what you've got with OpenAI. And ultimately, you know, Nvidia is uh is at the center of it now. Whether Jensen likes it or not, he is at the center of how this plays out. Nvidia right there 18305 slightly green in the pre-markets as well. Isn't uh isn't this what you want in a CEO? Yes. I mean technically that is what you want in a CEO but it's also one of those things where you know he gets a reputation of being a snake. So by the way 2880 trying to get up to 29. It was up 9% yesterday. He gets that reputation of being a snake. And you know sometimes a snake helps you secure deals in business. Other times it just makes people not want to work with you. And you know maybe this is one of those scenarios where people might not want to work with them. But at the end of the day, it's freaking OpenAI. They have the best LLM, or I should say the fastest growing LLM that's out there. It's hard to imagine people don't want to work with OpenAI. And so, I don't know. It's fascinating to see. I think for the sake of all of our portfolios, OpenAI does need to work whether you like SAM or not. But they are too intertwined with Nvidia, Broadcom, and AMD and a host of other I mean, Oracle's literal RPO growth, the 300 the the 500 billion in RPO, 300 billion out of the 500 billion was OpenAI. If not, it would have been 200 billion, which is still good remaining performance obligation growth, but it's not the type of explosive growth that brought the market cap up to almost a trillion. So, this thing has to work for OpenAI. And if it doesn't, we're likely going to have some issues. Um, let me go to what Elon said yesterday. So, remember that clip I said about Sean Duffy basically uh opening up the SpaceX contract? Here's the clip, and then Elon actually responded to it this morning for the moon contract with SpaceX. Now, SpaceX had the contract for Artemis 3. Um, they're be, by the way, I love SpaceX. It's an amazing company. The problem is they're behind. They pushed their timelines out and we're in a race against China. The president and I want to get to the moon in this uh president's term. So, I'm going to open up uh the the contract. I'm going to let other uh other uh space companies compete with SpaceX like like Blue Origin. Um, and again, whatever one can get us there first, um, to the moon, we're going to take. And if SpaceX is behind, but Blue Origin can do it before them, good on Blue Origin. But, by the way, we also might have two companies that get that can get us back to the moon um, in 2028. But again, we're not going to wait for one company. We're going to push this forward and win the second space race against the Chinese, get back to the moon, set up a camp, a base, and from there, it's going to we're going to figure out how we can actually get to Mars. Now, SpaceX had
>> so that's bullish Rocket Lab, potentially bullish Blue Origin, uh, you know, bullish a lot of the other space companies that are smaller than my bid for it. Elon's response was, "Why are you gay? This is the world's richest man, folks. This is the world's richest man. You got to love it. You got to love it, bro. I don't know if we will have in history a person of his wealth being able to respond to these highle officials like this ever again in history. So Elon's response is like, "Bro, like I know you're trying to seem like you're uh embracing metocracy by opening up the ability for other companies to compete with SpaceX, but you realize if SpaceX is slow on the contract, you think any of these other guys are going to be faster than us?" I think that's what Elon's basically implying right here. And so, you know, we're gonna see how this ends up playing out, but I did think this was funny. So, this was Elon's response as a result to what uh what Sean Duffy said, which it also does make sense, dude. I mean, look, going back to the moon, we haven't been there in 54 years. It's not the easiest thing to do. So, SpaceX is a little bit behind on their goals. It's like, okay, I'm not sure how many other space companies are that much more advanced than SpaceX to be able to figure this out quicker. Maybe some of them are. We're going to see. But overall, it does seem like SpaceX should still have a good shot of ending up to get this deal. So, that's what we got there in the context of Elon and uh and SpaceX. All right, let's get into some macro news because we got a bunch bunch of other things happening in the macro. First of all, let's just get through earnings. We got a lot of earnings. Let me know if any of you guys own these names in the chat, but let's go through them one by one. Most of them I'm looking at a beat on the top and the bottom, which is really good. So, let's pull these up right here. So, first, Galaxy Digital. I think a lot of you guys, or not a lot, but a decent chunk of you own this one. Take a look at this. EPS is up a,000% year-over-year. They beat by 261%. Uh, and then revenue is also up substantially. Revenue is up 235% year-over-year. They beat that by 90%. Galaxy is up 9% on the day. Why is this happening? Well, the AI HPC market is becoming massive. And a lot of these Bitcoin miners that have pivoted their business are starting to lean in to that growth. And so, these are just crazy numbers. I mean, beating EPS by 80 cents, beating revenue by uh 9 minus 15. That's basically what 14 billion, 29 billion versus 15 billion expected. It's quite incredible. And as a result, you're seeing the stock price get some momentum. Then you got Coca-Cola, 82 cents versus 78 cents, that's a beat by 5%, 12.4 versus 12.4 billion on revenue. That's a slight beat. Revenue is up 4% year-over-year. EPS is up 6% year-over-year. Coca-Cola is up 3%. Coca-Cola is up 3%. So you got those two earnings going out pretty well. Then you have 3M, another company, EPS 219 versus 207. That's a beat by 6%. Revenue 6.3 versus 6.25. That is a beat by 1%. Revenue is up 4% year-over-year. EPS is up 11% year-over-year. 3M is up 1%. In the pre-market then you had GM. This was actually a pretty good quarter. They beat by 21% 280 versus 232. Uh so they beat by about 40 cents right there. And then 48.5 versus 45.3. They beat by 7% on revenue. Revenue is still down year-over-year and so is EPS, but they did beat on both of those metrics for the top and the bottom against the street expectations. GM, wow, I actually did not look at the stock all morning. Up 11% on the day. 11% on the day. Now, you know, a lot of people are expecting an 11% move or a 10% move. I think the implied volatility is like an 8.2% for Tesla going into tomorrow's earnings. Um, it's just the expectations might be a little higher. So, you know, GM had some pretty high expectations. They came out and they beat them. So, now it's just the question of can Tesla beat some of those expectations. And if they do, maybe that one gets some love. And then you have General Electric beat by 13% on EPS, 166 versus 147, 11.3 versus 10.4 billion. EPS is up 44% year-over-year. Revenue is up 26% year-over-year. The punchline to all these earnings, GE, is up 2.4%. is that so far pretty much every company that matters has either beat on the top and the bottom line or they've slightly came in line with expectations on one or the other. Very few of them have actually missed a revenue and earnings estimate. And this is we're talking about Coca-Cola, we're talking about Bitcoin miners, we're talking about banks, we're talking about semiconductors with TSM and ASML. You've got a wide diversity of all these different companies that are putting up the earnings growth that we saw in Q2, which was quite phenomenal across the board, beating by about almost 8.5%. If that continues in Q3, I think we have some momentum. I think we have some momentum. The other big company that we had today was Eleven Health, another healthcare company. They beat by 22% on EPS 603 versus 494 and then 50 versus 49.5 billion. That stock I believe is also up in the pre-markets. Yeah, up about 2% as well. Not too bad. Not too bad. We're getting a lot of these companies put up some numbers and those numbers are resulting in some decent earnings growth across the board. Wow. We got a headline right here. The Saudi prince is going to be visiting the White House on November 18th. Huh. Wow. Oh, Bin Salman's coming to the White House. Last time he came, you guys remember, last time he came was uh they they signed $150 billion defense uh contract and uh the the the Saudis basically bought our tanks and guns and weapons and all this other stuff. And he was in the Oval Office with Trump and Trump was like, "Oh, this is just peanuts for you. You can even buy more." Looks like he's coming back November 18th. November 18th is going to be a Tuesday. All right. So, you got the Saudis coming back to the US and hopefully we're going to get some more deals that are announced uh with the Saudis, particularly in regards to AI. Rathon had earnings today as well. I didn't even know Rathon had earnings today. Rathon, wow, 5.28%. Look at that. Looks like Rathon had a double beat. I didn't even see the earnings, but looks like Rathon as well had a double beat. So, again, you're just seeing more and more excitement across the board on these earnings. Yeah, revenue 22.4. 4 versus 21.7 and then uh EPS 170 versus 141 that's up 17% year-over-year. Revenues up 12% year-over-year. Both of these are beating whether it's defense, Coca-Cola, semiconductors, Bitcoin miners, banks. I mean, you're just seeing a lot of different industries put up the numbers that really do matter. And so that's what we got. EOS, this one's running in the pre-markets. I don't know the headline on this one. EOS is up 19%. It was actually down 19% last week. I think on like a random Tuesday it got hit when American Batteries got hit. The news is they're expanding their Pennsylvania operations with a 24 million stateback package to build a new 432,000 feet facility in Marshall Township. The project will boost battery production to 8 gawatts a year. Wow. Support a thousand jobs and advance their zincbased long duration energy storage tech as a part of their newest project. All right, there you go. If you are an EOSE, congratulations. This one is definitely a volatile name that looks like a pretty damn good deal they got this morning, especially because it's backed by the state itself. And 8 gawatts a year of battery production is quite incredible to see if they can get that out there. But looks like that is one of the news, one of the headlines that's getting it to get some momentum. They're meeting with Governor Shapiro today. Okay. Well, that also should be helping them as well. Um, why are you guys saying Michael J. Fox passed away in the chat? Is that is that true? Because I don't see any headline saying Michael J. Fox passed away. Can we can we not joke about people passing away, please? Like, I get the trolling is fun, but can we can we not joke about that? Like, can we have some line that we that we don't cross? Okay, he didn't, right? Because I just searched it up and I don't see that either. Yeah. Can we please not joke about people dying? That's uh like not the the funnest thing to do in the morning and then have to see if that's true or not. All right, cool. So, Michael J. Fox did not die. Good. You know, Back to the Future. I I I don't watch a lot of movies. I watched it last year and I really enjoyed it. I enjoyed Back to the Future 2 as well. And then I didn't see the third one because the third one looked like it was some cowboy and I was like, I don't really like cowboys on it. But but the first two were really good and I only watched it because I had a Dan Ives moment with Vlad. I asked Vlad on the podcast back in March of 2024. What's your favorite movie? He said Back to the Future. And I just nodded my head. I was like classic. That was great. And then I had to I couldn't lie to Vlad. I had to watch it. And then I tweeted that I watched it in like April of 2024 and Vlad commented under. He was like, "You should watch the Broadway special too and you should watch the second one." I was like, "Yep, I will. I will do that. I will do that. Mr. Mr. Teniff." All right. Goldman Sach CEO David Salvin. They crushed earnings last week yet to say about where we are in the state of AI and the markets.
>> Bubbles just over the last week. Bubbles in AI, bubbles in markets. You don't particularly like that term. It's not one you want to use yourself.
>> Yeah. You know, I don't I don't I don't like to be, you know, overdramatic.
>> Bubble and bubbles.
>> Um, you know, I've been looking at tech multiples and trying to put tech multiples in a historical context. you know, I've looked at um a variety of datas, a variety of data on public company tech multiples and you know, also private capital formation for tech companies and it, you know, it strikes me that, you know, that the multiples are kind of 75th percentile or 80 percentile. So there's no question, you know, we're somewhere in a cycle where the values are are higher, but the growth opportunity coming from AI is significant. But I'm, you know, I'm certainly in the camp that they're going to be winners and losers. capital has been allocated to companies that are going to be hugely important companies and it's going to be allocated to companies that um that ultimately you know won't make it or won't you know won't succeed in that context and ultimately whenever we have a new technology especially at scale and you have significant capital formation around it you know they're going to be winners or losers we're not smart enough you know to pick pick them all and ultimately there's you know there's a rebalancing but I think the long-term trends around this technology the opportunity for productivity gains for some great companies to be formed is really quite exciting How about how you're using it internally at Goldman Sachs because you've made a lot of comments in the past about how this can really do the work for investment bankers much faster.
>> Well, I I I think there there are couple of base ways that we're using it. We're very focused on this. The first is we've always I mean since I started 40 some years ago, we get technology tools into the hands of really smart people to make them more productive. So I always joke about doing a common stock comparison 40 years ago. It took six hours. you had to go to the library, go get microfich to get back issues of the Wall Street Journal. Now somebody can do it in seconds. It doesn't mean we don't have a lot of very smart young people doing a lot of work. They're just doing different work than they did when I started 40 years ago. And so we continue to get these tools into the hands of our very smart people and it makes them more productive. It gives them an ability to spend more time with clients to do more. It scales our footprint, our reach. The more interesting thing we're spending a lot of time on, you might have seen last week, Becky, that we put out a memo where we announced what we're calling one Goldman Sachs 3.0, know the evolution of our one Goldman Sachs operating ethos is we're really looking at six principles you know throughout the firm to operate the firm more efficiently serve clients better where we're looking at processes inside the firm and saying this technology gives us the right and the ability for the first time to reimagine these processes and really do them entirely differently to automate a bunch of things to create meaningful efficiency that then can be reinvested in growth in the business. It's not just,
>> you know, the exciting thing about what he's saying right there is that Jamie Diamond was making the same argument as well. A lot of these banks are seeing that there are internal uh efficiencies that they can operate in if they effectively use AI. The question is how quick can that lead to an ROI for the overall bank itself. And you know the earnings from these banks again outside of a couple regional banks which by the way Zions they had earnings yesterday. Apparently last week we got like a preliminary part of their earnings with this charge off that they legally had to report and that's what caused all the concern about the regional banks having a credit crisis. They reported earnings yesterday. They demolished earnings. They had 56 million in charge offs. 50 million of that was the uh fraud charge off that they had to legally report last week which caused everyone to get scared about the regional banks. they only had an extra six million of charge offs of like quoteunquote default default or or bad loans. So their earnings were great and and so were the rest of the regional banks that reported last week. So every single bank that has reported including Goldman Sachs has beat definitively on the top and the bottom line. And you know I think it's maybe too early to say if that's all because of AI but based on what David Solomon is saying a lot of it seems like it could turn into the ecosystem of AI as he's mentioning becoming more and more important. Um, and if that, you know, if that doesn't stop, then we should be in for a little bit more earnings growth over the next coming years. And speaking of earnings growth and, you know, AI efficiency, this is what Amazon reported today, or this is at least what the New York Times reported today for Amazon. Amazon is reportedly hoping its robots can replace more than 600,000 jobs it would otherwise have to hire in the United States by 2033. So you know when you think of AI transforming an enterprise for Goldman Sachs it would be making the way they do underwriting the way they do M&A IPOs etc more efficient for Amazon it's physical labor that they are trying to automate away likely with humanoid robots maybe they're going to buy it from Tesla maybe they're going to buy it from figure maybe they buy from maybe they build it themselves but this is happening this is going to happen whether it's in 5 years or 10 years there is just no way a business is going to look at the potential of using AI in the physical form as a cheaper significantly cheaper alternative to a human and not take that opportunity. So the question is going to be you know how does society prepare for that but this is something that likely is going to play out and whether it's Goldman Sachs or Amazon all of these guys are trying to see how AI can transform the entire industry which again brings up the the ethical question of just like okay if we're going to transform all these industries and increase shareholder returns by increasing profit margins what happens to human beings that like need a job which is all of us and I don't have an answer to that question but it is something we're going to be having to Think about Warner Brothers is up 10% right now. Pre-market, I think they just said something. WBD. Yeah, look at that go. That's up 8%. Warner Brothers said they are open to being acquired. Boom. There you go. They are open to being acquired. That is enough for Warner Brothers to get an 8% move. What was the company? Uh I think it was Paramount, right, that was thinking of acquiring these guys. Warner Brothers has a lot of debt. They have like 70 billion in debt. So, I mean, they would be acquiring a lot of assets with HBO Max and all the different things they own, but they also have to deal with a ton of debt debt that they have. Isn't Amazon already using robots in some of their assembly lines of sorting packages? Yes. Um, it's just not necessarily humanoid robotics that are like doing everything a normal human would do. Amazon still employs over two million people that literally do the things that you need a human to do. So, there I mean, Amazon's been using robotics for the past 15 years. question is, do they end up just replacing the whole human? And maybe that does happen sooner than later. Yeah, PK, PSKY, that was the company that uh the merger between Paramount and Sky potentially acquiring Warner Brothers. That would be a pretty big consolidation in the industry. That's Paramount Plus and HBO Max coming together. I I actually do pay for HBO Max even though I barely use it. I don't know why I pay for it. I feel like I pay for it because they have The Dark Knight and Inception and on the random day I feel like watching The Dark Knight or Inception. Like I really should cancel the subscription, bro. I don't pay for it. I mean, I I I don't watch it, so I don't know why I paid for it, but yeah, if that were to merge with Paramount, it would be quite incredible to see. Did Kathy sell SoFi? Yes, Kathy took some profits on SoFi yesterday. I have not bought SoFi for those that are asking. I was going to buy it yesterday and then the thing ran up 10% and I was like, "Okay, I can't buy this anymore." But, um, we'll see going into earnings if if I buy some shares or sell some puts. But, she sold some Oaklo 53,000 shares. She sold some Kratos. She sold some Palanteer, sold some Shopify, sold some Roblox, uh, and then sold some Palanteer, Roblox, Shopify, and SoFi in the Arc Fun. She actually bought CLA instead, which I don't get, bro. Selling SoFi to buy CLA. I really don't get that. I think that's kind of weird, but that's what she ended up doing. And she took some profits there as well. So, that's what she got with Kathy and SoFi. Is Beyond Meat still moving? I still don't know why it squeezed yesterday. Wow, it's up another 63%. Dude, see the theme of yesterday and this is what I talked about on the market close is that I was really happy that the S&P 500 is basically 0.5% away from alltime highs which is super bullish. Uh and the other reason that's super bullish is because a lot of the random frothy names like a QBTS in the quantum space or a Oaklow were red yesterday. I mean QBTS lost another 8%. It's down another 2% in the pre-markets. the stock is down over 20% over the past couple weeks and I was like that's good because there was no reason for it to run up to 50. So like Oaklo down from 190 good is there was no reason for it to run up there. So the fact that it's staying down Oaklo down another 4% and the S&P is going back to alltime highs super bullish but then you have this Beyond Meat stuff and I'm like well I don't I don't know how to explain now if that's necessarily bullish. I guess people decided they wanted to be vegan. It is heavily shorted, so that could be a headline as well. Is there a Walmart partnership today? I mean, that could definitely get the street excited. Beyond Meat, Walmart. Wow, it came out a minute ago. Wow. Two minutes ago, dude. I clicked on it right when it ran up not seeing this headline. Beyond Meat expands distribution at Walmart. Okay. Is that enough for it to go up 70% though? Like I mean I I don't know dude. I I I guess I know they are shorted but do people even eat Beyond Meat anymore? Like this thing was like a fad with the Impossible Burgers and stuff. Like I I don't I don't know how people are that excited about it. I know this thing ran like crazy in 2021, but I guess Walmart distribution is enough to uh to get people Yeah. What does expand even mean? They I'm sure they were already in Walmarts. I guess there's different Walmarts that they're going to. I don't know, bro. This stuff is weird. So, look, I I I I I really liked that Oaklo and the Quantum stuff, all that stuff was read yesterday. I And not because I want to see people lose money on those, but because even if you're down on those names, if you got in early, you are still up like crazy. And you yourself should not want those things to go straight to the moon if you want any chance for those stocks to actually stabilize in a range because the quicker they go to the moon, the quicker they come back down. So, you should probably want a healthy retracement, which I think Oaklow and D-Wave both did take yesterday to normalize potentially the the 30s instead of the 50s. And, you know, D-Wave would still be up thousands of percent. But, it would be a clown market if the S&P went back to 673 all-time highs and then Oak goes back to 200. It's like, no, dude. Like, that that's just too much liquidity. There's no real rotation. There's no broadening of the market. I know if Oakland goes to zero, it doesn't matter, but you just don't want to see all those names run up with the market because they're not being rewarded for anything. They're just being rewarded for excess liquidity. Now, AMD hitting all-time highs yesterday, super bullish. Apple, based on these iPhone 17 reports being way better than the iPhone 16, hitting all-time highs yesterday, super bullish. Apple still only up 8% year to date. These are things that are very, very healthy from my perspective. And it was really healthy to not see the oak lows of the world go to 200 yesterday. And so the question now is just going to be, you know, do they stay at those levels or do they end up ramping back up? Mishaka says, "I agree. I'm up 400% on QBTS, so I'm not greedy." Yeah. It's like, and yeah. Yeah. Maybe you're not up 6x anymore, but you know, if the 6x results in being up 1x and going back to being up 4x results in at least staying up 4x, you I think most people would rather say I' I'd rather keep the gains I have versus go up into the moon, miss selling the top because everyone misses selling the top and then have everything come crashing down. I feel like that is also more healthy for the broader market as well. Gold is coming down, folks. So, we we didn't talk too much about this commodity trade outside of when I mention mentioned it in the uh in the beginning of the show. If anyone has any theories on why you think it's coming down, I would love to see it in the chat. My theory is simply the trade got overcrowded. It got overcrowded. However, I say that with a grain of salt because I mean, what if this is something that can reverse by tomorrow? Now, I know it's not a stock price and there's not that many like headlines that we can look at that can easily can get this thing to move up or down. Commodities are a totally different animal. But I I I do feel like the trade at some point after an 11-year breakout probably got a bit overcrowded, at least for now. And maybe because of that overcrowding, you're seeing some weakness. I mean, take a look at this headline right here. India's biggest refinery yesterday, ran out of silver for the first time as demand exploded. Now, Diwali was probably a part of this as a lot of the lot of the elements in silver and gold are used in a variety of different things that are made for Dvali. But the fact that there's this much demand across the world for global silver and the global silver supply has lagged behind demand for five straight years now that it's starting to flip. It's quite incredible to see how much excitement there is in this trade and the question is will that excitement continue to last? Daniel says taking a breather moves have been too big. Um Vanango says overextended. Kel says everything is down right now on that. Green Bull's goal will be 15K in two years. We looked at the central bank chart yesterday that showed so many central banks are starting to buy massive, massive amounts of gold. Even Poland, Kazakhstan, Turkey, they're all buying as much gold as you can imagine. And so, yeah, I mean, it is one of those things that's becoming an asset class that a lot of these central banks are liking probably even more than treasuries. Speaking of treasuries, the US 10-year pre-markets, wow, 3.95. We closed below four yesterday. we open below four once again today. You know, it it it really doesn't make sense for gold to be going higher and for the 10-year to be going lower. But if gold starts going lower, maybe that starts to make more sense in terms of how these two macro dynamics should be playing out. Gold is becoming very liquid and maybe all that liquidity is also a reason why, you know, some people might be taking advantage of it as well. So, you got the 10-year potentially coming down. Countries are fomoing into gold. That could also be happening. countries could be fomoing into it even more than uh even more than individual investors. We looked at this when the market close yesterday. Take a look at this. The term AI bubble on Google Trends has five to 8x the search volume of the following terms. How to buy Bitcoin, Bitcoin, Ethereum, how to buy Nvidia, stock market, how to buy stocks. This was fascinating to look at yesterday because more people are searching for if we're in an AI bubble than what you would expect people to be searching for if we were at the top of that bubble. People would be searching for how to buy stocks, how to buy Nvidia, Bitcoin, Ethereum, like stock market. Like these are the terms that would be trending. And in fact, it's AI bubble. So to me, I think this is actually not toppy. I think this is more so a signal of we've got a lot of room to grow if the majority of people are concerned with be about being in a bubble versus being concerned about, you know, the things that you would search for in a bubble, like how to buy Bitcoin. I mean, the fact that Bitcoin is not even near its 2017 levels in terms of search volume just goes to show retail's just not interested right now. And I don't know if you can easily have a bubble if retail is not massively interested in the context of of crypto. Here's another stat that was important yesterday. Goldman Sachs says its basket of most shorted stocks is up 16% in October, on pace for its best month record since 2008, far outpacing the S&P 500. At the same time, Goldman's unprofitable tech basket, which includes names like Roku and Pelaton, has also surged 16%, the strongest since October 2014. So, this is kind of why you're seeing some of the names like a Beyond Me get these massive moves. You do have shorted names that are on a percentage basis much more shorted than you know your average tech stock have a pretty strong October which also aids to the volatility that we've seen in October. October is the most volatile month on record and the fact that some of these shorted names are getting the moves that they're getting continues to prove how volatile this month ultimately is in a lot of levels. Yeah, profits are coming from somewhere else. 100% profits are coming from so many different I from so many different areas as well which is a whole different way that this is playing out. So that's what we got in the context of some of this macro news and what is going on as we get to the end uh of October. Here is Karpathy, one of the former guys at Tesla, talking a little bit more about some of the AI progress we're seeing right now. Overall, the models are are um they're not there. And I kind of feel like the industry it's it's um it's over it's it's making too big of a jump and it's trying to pretend like this is amazing and it's not. It's slop and I think they're not coming to terms with it. Overall, the models are are um they're not there and I kind of feel like the
>> So, you got Carpathy basically saying, "Hey, a lot of this is stupid." And I was talking about this yesterday. I mean, I'm starting to agree with him as well. Like I downloaded Sora, I used it a little bit and I'm like I am never gonna use this again, bro. I don't want to see this random AI generated content. Like it really is stupid. And so when Karpathy who you know used to work on FSD he was one of the head guys on FSD and is you know using AI to like really make a change in the world is seeing that these models that are producing the type of content they're producing that are using all this GPU data center uh capacity for what exactly to like make a picture of a cat jumping over a birthday cake. Like it it's just it's weird. And so maybe I'm not the target market, maybe I'm not the dem demographic, but I wonder how many people in the world actually want to sit and consume all that content and if that's the real resources that people should be focusing on when it comes to AI and you know maybe it's not going to be what people care about. Speaking of brain brought content, I made this post yesterday that resonated with a lot of people. I wonder how much it resonates with everybody here, but I said I wish Instagram reels ran on AWS because maybe maybe just for one day I wouldn't get sent all the stupid reels that I have to pretend to click on in these group chats and then respond to them every day. Because at this point in my life, as someone who's about to turn 28, I've just told people that if you send me a reel, I will not watch it. I have zero sympathy for not watching it. I will actively tell you after you send me the reel that I'm not clicking on it in hopes of you one day deciding to never send me a reel again. Ironically, it just makes my friends want to spam me with more reels. So, I I'm putting my foot down in a lot of these group chats, bro. I'm really putting my foot down and I'm just telling them, dude, I'm not clicking on this. I don't care if it's 10 seconds. I don't have the patience to listen to this for to to to watch whatever thing that gave you a little bit of a giggle during the middle of your day for 10 seconds. I'm not watching it. I'm just not. And if it's more than 10 seconds, I mean, you're out of your mind, dude. I'm not waiting through 30 seconds of watching some stupid reel. So, I'm done. I'm totally done. I I am moving on with my life and I'm telling people I'm not watching it. Having said that, I made a new Instagram. So, follow me on Instagram. So, I'm on Instagram. I told you guys I was going to start one anyway. I feel like I should probably like start posting on this platform and like build up Instagram. So, if you want to follow me there, you can follow me there. I don't there's no guarantee I'm even ever going to be posting on this. I just feel like I probably should be posting on Instagram because it's been like 10 years and I haven't actually made an Instagram. So, if you want to follow me there, I will not send you reels. I will also not click on your reels if you send it to me. But, uh I kind of want to use this as a way to show more of a behind the scenes of my actual life. I just don't know if I actually will do that. Maybe in 2026, but there it is. Instagram's out. So, if anyone wants to follow me, you can uh you can follow me there. It looks like a fake account, dude. It looks like such a fake it. Emit Cook Rage at 222. It looks so stupid. It looks like a fake account, but every other username was taken. So, I was like, "Okay, I'm just going to put my first and last name with those numbers there." And that's You just want us to watch your reels. I don't even think I'm ever going to make I I really I I want to capture some moments in life, right? Because, you know, like I I was actually scroll, you know, here. Okay, I'll I'll I'll talk more about this later, but I was scrolling through Facebook the other day and I was like, dude, there's a lot of memories on Facebook, but I don't use Facebook anymore. I still scroll through Instagram, you know, occasionally for a couple minutes a day. I was like, it'd be nice to just capture some memories on a platform that I can go back to. Realistically, I'm like, you know, I should be documenting the journey of life on a platform that I actually use. Cuz on Facebook, I'm like trying to find these memories from like 10 years ago. I'm like, "Dude, I don't even use Facebook anymore. I don't know how to use this." So, I feel like from that perspective, it's not the worst idea to uh to start posting on IG. All right, here we go, folks. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Tuesday, October 21st, 9:30 a.m., and the snack market is once again open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's see if we can hold on to this green momentum that we had yesterday. S&P 500 flat on the day. Looks like it's about to go red. We do have a bit of a red candle right there. 67134. We did close above 671 yesterday. Tesla goes red. Palanteer slightly red. Robin Hood down 1%. It did hit 137 yesterday. Grab down half a percent. Google down 1%, SoFi down half a percent, 2850 from 28.90 to 2850. AMD down half a percent as well. Reddit's up 1.4%. Amazon somehow Amazon is holding on to a 1% move. Amazon literally did not go red at all yesterday outside of the pre-markets and then it bounced up green even after the AWS outage which literally affected half the internet. But Amazon holding Dawn. And I put the green or red poll in the chat so you can uh vote on what you think we end up for the day. Amazon right there trying to go for 219. Meta that's up half a percent. Salesforce up 1%. ELF is up 1.23%. How about Galaxy which crushed earnings? These guys are up 7%. They were up 12%. So they're losing some of their steam. Coca-Cola was up 3%. Coca-Cola holding on to that 3%. GM was up 11%. GM right there is up 8%. So giving back a little bit of those gains. SMCI, there was the rumor yesterday that they're partnering with XAI. We have no updates on if that rumor is true, but that was the rumor that got this thing to pop up 7% yesterday. Bitcoin 108 loses 109. Ethereum 3,800. That means Bitmine's probably at 52. Bit mine 5254 that's down 2.3%. The NASDAQ's down. Crowd strikes down. Coinbase is down. HIMS 87 cents away from losing 50. Micro Strategy that's down 1%. PaloAlto up a little bit. And then ESTs losing a 100 from last week, losing 85 from yesterday, now at 81. still up a chunk from 65, but down on the day. Uh, Square, that's down. Intel was up 4%, that's down. Archer was up yesterday, that's down another 2%. TFC's up a little bit. Palanteer goes down. Robin Hood loses 134 now back below 134. SoFi slightly goes green by about a cent trying to hold on, but still red. Tesla right here at 446. That that one is basically flat on the day as well. Now, Apple hit 264 yesterday. Hit all-time highs. And I think the iPhone 17 growth likely means they deserve it. But 262 right here trying to hold on at least to the 260s. Where are the Bitcoin miners? IN. Wow. 56. I ran losing that 58 level that it held on to yesterday. 5695 on Iran. A lot of these Bitcoin miners. Where's Bit Farms? Oh my. Bit farms actually took the biggest beating I think over the last week. Bit farms was at, let me do the math right now. Bit Farms is down 30%. 30%. In the past week, I know they did an offering and for a day it seemed like the offering didn't matter, but then the next day the offering kind of hit them. Wol's down 2%. Hives down 2%. Clean Spark down 1%. Cipher down 3%. IN down 3%, Riot down one, Galaxy is the only one that's up because they had a good earnings which is helping them. Wow. Amazon 220. Look at that. Look at that. In the face of the AWS outage, Amazon is the one that holds on and continues to go green, which is pretty incredible to see. So, Amazon holding on, the rest of these companies going down. How about the rare earth companies? They are all down on the day. LAC down two, TMQ down five, MP down three, CRML down nine, US down nine. It looks like whatever momentum the rare earth companies had starting from three weeks ago, at least over the past four days, has died down. And maybe this is not a structural die down of the momentum. Maybe it's them taking a breather. Same thing with silver. Maybe silver is just taking a breather. Maybe it's not structural. But if it's structural, it's not easy to regain that momentum. It really isn't, especially if momentum was the only reason that they were running in the first place. So, we're going to see. We're going to have to see how this one ends up playing out. What about Oracle, which got whacked yesterday? Oracle down another 1%. Does anyone have the headline for why Oracle got hit yesterday? I could not find why Oracle was down 5%. I I I did not see a legitimate reason for what was happening. Nebius, I did sell a put on Nebius at 98. Maybe I get assigned. Who knows? It's at 105, 140 to 105. Um it has taken a pretty big beating from those all-time highs. Uh but I did sell a put for 98. So if it gets below 98, I probably will get that assignment. Beyond meat, what do we have there? That's up 61% based on the announcement with Walmart, which I don't know if is enough to warrant a 60% move, but that's up. GSIT, uh, this was the company that put out a white paper yesterday. They're up another 30%. They were up 200% yesterday, and this white paper had to do with GPUs that don't have to use energy as intensively as Nvidia's GPUs do. Um, no revenue, no earnings, no distribution deals, just a white paper. And that's why that stock continues to go green. Uh, Rathon, that's up as well. Again, they had a great earnings. Rathon. Wow. 9% for Rathon. I didn't look exact. I mean, they beat on the top and the bottom, but I guess they said something in the call or via guidance that really is getting the street excited. Defense contractors don't move 9% that easily. So, you would imagine Loheed Martin probably will have a strong earnings. That one's down 2% right now on the day. Why is Nebius being hit so hard? You know, Nebius is is is uh because I I bet you. All right. So, Nebius is down 3%. I bet you Cororee is down at least 2%. Cororeweave down 3.5%. Nebius, Cororeweave, Irene, all these companies, if you're investing in them, you've got to remember they're in the same bucket from a narrative perspective, just like Robin Hood, Coinbase, etc. are in the same bucket from a crypto perspective. So, I mean, I I don't know if there's any justified reason for why Neb is getting hit, especially after Roman announced a new data center that they were building yesterday in Israel. But, it's down 2%. And it's down, you know, 15% over the past week. I think because all the data center players are taking a hit. Same thing with Core Wee. Cor we've announced multiple partnerships over the past week, not to mention the 14 billion partnership with Meta. Does that deserve to go down from 150 to 120? I don't know. But all the data centers get hit at the same time if they do get hit. If you are in this trade, you are in the trade with all the other stocks as well. That doesn't mean they're going to proportionally trade onetoone every single day uh together, but you're likely in the same trade together in regards to how the how the bucket of stocks perform. I think the only kind of way you get out of that bucket is if you buy one of the hyperscalers because they have different deals like not exactly a hyperscaler but one of the larger companies right and AMD and Nvidia and Oracle they kind of trade on their own merits because they're multiundred billion dollar if not multi- trillion dollar companies but Nebus is a $30 billion company you know is a $60 billion company IN's a $20 billion so all these names they are much more volatile and probably in buckets with these algos that end up getting traded together SMCI goes green. Okay, SMCI is up. TLT is also up. TLT, look, if people hedged with TLT, you are doing pretty decent on it. I think TLT a couple months ago was back at 83. It's at 92 as the 10ear comes down. So, for those that bought TLT as their hedge, look at that. The 10ear 3.955. Lowest since April, folks. Lowest since April. And that's why you are getting some momentum. Why is Oaklo tanking? I don't know. But it is good to see. Look at that. 7% down, baby. I don't want to be super excited for that, but I'm super excited for that. You need the froth to leave the market. You need it. We cannot have a healthy bull market with stupid stocks running up. D-wave down another 4%, baby. You need the froth to leave. We cannot have nonsense companies running for no reason. That's not indicative of any level of longevity in regards to this bull run. We just it's just not possible. Every time that's happened, we end up topping out. And so I think this is really bullish to see the S&P two bucks away from alltime highs and Oaklo 40 bucks away from its all-time highs. Potentially never even getting back to those all-time highs because why the hell should it? Someone tell me why it deserves to be worth $40 billion. I mean like and if if there is no reason then it shouldn't get back there and that's a good thing. That is a good thing to see. That's important. Wow. Netflix is reportedly one of the companies looking to acquire Warner Brothers Discovery. Huh. Warner Brothers up 10%. Market cap is 50 billion. Dude, if Netflix bought Warner Brothers, I wouldn't be that upset about that. How much cash does Netflix have? How much cash does Netflix have? Uh, okay. Okay, Netflix has 8 billion in cash. Warner Brothers is worth 50 billion as of its move today. I don't know exactly how they would finance this, but they would get a lot of good content. Friends would come back to Netflix. I mean, that would be bullish. All those films on HBO Max, Silicon Valley, these shows, like these are really good pieces of content. Are they worth 50 billion? I don't know. But Netflix also now has advertising. So, you know, worst case scenario, they can they can put a ton of ads in a lot of these shows that they know people will watch even if they don't gain new subscribers. I mean, there's a lot of different ways this plays out. Comcast is another one to bid for for Warner Brothers. That makes more sense to me because Comcast and Warner Brothers have had a pretty close relationship over the past 20 years. Netflix would be the outsider, but I wouldn't hate that. You're buying the IP essentially. Yeah, you're buying the IP. They would get DC Studios. Yeah, there's a lot of assets that HBO Max has. a lot of stuff. And I'm just looking at some of the stuff they own. Yeah, TNT. That'd be massive. Wouldn't they get basketball? Doesn't TNT still have a contract with with the NBA? I think like they might get Live Sports, Cartoon Network, Animal Planet, uh Food Network, The Science Channel, CNN. Um, which you know, even if everyone doesn't watch CNN, there's a certain part of the population that does care about that type of news. You're going to get those subscribers. I mean, there's a decent amount of stuff that they own. Comedy Central, Crunchyroll, there's a ton of things that Warner Brothers owns that Netflix could get from an asset class. Batman, yep, that's a big one. TNT contract is over. Okay, so they won't get the NBA, but there are some pretty good assets here. Hims down 1.25%. AS down 1.8. 85. Micro strategy down 1% on the day. Where is Regetti? Regetti. Wow. 3% down on Regetti. How about NQ? O NQ down 2%. INQ's been the most resilient in all the quantum names. Regetti and Dwave have just fallen off like a rock. Uh but Q has actually held up strong compared to them. But you are seeing those names just get hit. And then an Oaklo right here down 7% on the day. SMR down 7%. And then Nanuclear down 5%. Galaxy is not fading because their earnings are pretty good. Uh but all their competitors are massively red today. Wow. I ran 6% down 70 to 55. Cipher down four. Clean Spark down four. Clean Spark was up 20% yesterday. Marathon down one. Bit farms just keeps going to the gutter 462. And then Riot down 1%. Again, all of these names are still up multiple hundreds of percent over the past year. Iran, Clean, Spark, Cipher, etc. So, it's it it's I mean, yeah, they're taking a breather. They should be taking a breather. And also, they should have to put up they should be forced to do what Galaxy did, aka put up massive earnings for them to get a premium. All these companies, including the Oakloss and the Quantum, like that's the other thing, like D-Wave should put up some really good earnings to get its premium. D-Wave now down 7%. They don't put up good earnings. There's there's no real growth. So like why is it like Big Bear AI? They should be forced in the age of AI. If you're going to put the ticker symbol AI in your in your ticker or the letters in your ticker, you should be forced to put up good earnings. These companies have gone parabolic and they haven't put up anything other than a narrative. It's like this is I I think this is so healthy, bro. This is so healthy. And by the way, I'm not being biased to any of these companies because I say the exact same thing with Robin Hood. Robin Hood should be forced to show that Q3 was phenomenal to get back to 150. They shouldn't just get to 150 off hopes and dreams. Like a lot of this stuff needs to be earned and you know the best companies that deserve it will earn it. But the ones that don't, they should not be running up for no reason. Nvidia right there 18141. That also goes red. Grab right there 561. Grabb's going to have to put up good earnings to get back into the sixes. Although I do think Grab is getting manipulated. I mean, it stayed at six for a month and now it's back down below six for no reason. So, to me, I think the shorts are more in control there. But, they're going to have to put up good earnings to justify that they deserve to be there. Apple right there, that one is green, up 8.1% on the day. It shows a rotation out of risk. Exactly. It shows a rotation out of risk, which is very, very healthy. I feel when the S&P is trying to get back to alltime highs. GM, they put up a great earnings today. They deserve it. GM put up a great earnings. You know, I don't invest in GM, but you can't deny a 30% EPS. It's up 26% now year-to- date, 12% today based on some good numbers. Are you going to cover the Federal Reserve crypto meeting today? So, thank you for that comment because uh yes, I will be covering it. I I don't know if it's going to be live streamed, but there will be a meeting today. And this is actually really important. So, take a look at this. you're going to have a panel around stable coin use cases and tokenized products. The COO of BlackRock will be in the tokenized product um panel. Kathy Wood is going to be there for uh another panel and then the circle president is going to be there for the stablecoin panel. I think that and then the chain link founder is going to be there for another panel. I think this is super bullish because the fact that the Federal Reserve, one of the entities that's been the most dogmatic around crypto over the past essentially decade, is hosting multiple panels in one day around different crypto ideas like stable coins and tokenization. I feel like that's super bullish crypto just as an industry even if you know Bitcoin and Ethereum have been flat over the past couple weeks. So, uh, it is good to see that and hopefully we get some updates from that and then I'll report about it on the market close. Bit mine right there 5216 that is down 3% on the day. We're losing money. Stop saying healthy. Okay, hold on. L If you're losing money in Oaklo and you bought it at 190, I'm sorry, but that is very healthy to not see the froth in Oaklo. Now, if you bought it at 190, it sucks for you. Like, just if we're gonna be honest, but that does not mean it is not healthy to see Oaklow come down. If you bought Robin Hood at 150, it sucks you bought it at 150, but it does not mean that it's not healthy to see Robin Hood come back to reality because it probably didn't deserve to be at 150. Like, dude, there is no way one can say that this is not healthy. This is the most healthy you could possibly imagine. Grab has seven billion in cra cash going 25% year-over-year. When Grab goes down, that seems more like, okay, the shorts are involved. There's manipulation. There could be something going on. Maybe there's some narrative that we might not know about, but that is a company with a healthy balance sheet that is profitable and growing. Oaklo is up 2,000% this year, has no cash, no earnings, no revenue, no contracts. They just have a narrative. So it it's not healthy to see stocks with a large pile of cash and actual earnings go down. It is very healthy to see nonsense come back down to reality. It's just that simple. Like this is the nature of how the stock market operates when stupid companies go to the moon. And I'm not saying it's stupid in a in a in a in a in a in a sense that they can't ever have potential or they can't get a bunch of contracts, but the stock price action was stupid. Like let's just be honest about it. It it does not make sense. There's no way to justify it quantitatively or qualitatively. The only qualitative argument you can make is nuclear energy is important. Okay, how long does it take to set up a small a small modular reactor? 5 years, 10 years? How many has Oaklo set up? How much revenue have they potentially even had in their backlog to generate from that? Like it's not even picking on Oaklo. It's Oaklo is a metaphor for all these companies that ran up for no reason. It doesn't make sense. It does not. Amazon pumping today. It makes way more sense than an Oaklo getting back to 190. Amazon right there 220. That's green on the day. Yeah, it always comes back to fundamentals. Pouncer is an exception because you like it. Pouncer is not an exception because I like it. I have said I mean if you've been actually watching the channel for the past four years, especially since Paler started making its run in 2024, I was the first person to say Paler is getting ridiculously expensive. However, the one thing Pounder is doing that Oaklow or DWave or any of this other crap is not doing is growing 50%. With 60% free cash flow margins and 45% adjusted operating margins. You can disagree with the multiple on the stock. You can't disagree that they probably don't deserve a multiple because of their growth. Same thing with Hood. Same thing with a lot of other companies that, you know, does Oracle really deserve to be worth 800 billion? Maybe not. But Oracle is growing like crazy in terms of how they're a massive hyperscaler in the age of cloud computing for AI. These other companies have nothing. You can disagree with the multiple on some of these stocks. You cannot compare them to companies that have nothing other than a name and a retail audience that is pumping them up. Like that is the difference. Does Apple deserve a 35 PE? Probably not. Apple's growing like 3% year-over-year, but Apple's also buying back a hundred billion dollars worth of stock. Apple is also going through an upgrade cycle with with iPhone 17. And Siri might end up becoming one of the biggest AI consumer products next year, which is why those are substantive things you could say probably deserves a multiple. You can disagree, maybe it should be 27 instead of 35, but disagreeing on a multiple is different from saying that Apple doesn't deserve any premium. A lot of these other companies probably don't deserve any premium because there's nothing there. And it's good for that to be wiped out. It's really, really important for that to be wiped out. He's being moody today. No, I'm just like, bro, I want to keep this bull market going. I want to keep it going. Nebas, by the way, 104. It looks like I might get signed on my 98 puts. Um, and to keep this bull market going, you cannot have these stocks go to the moon. Like, you just can't. It starts to look like a bubble when a lot of these stocks go to the moon for no reason. And the best way to hedge against that is for those stocks to die out. It's important. It's very, very, very important. Amid sounds like an ex-wife. Yes. sound like an X-wave. And I'm not even trying to offend people that are in these names. I feel like if you're in these names, you should know that these like again I I I don't know how many times I have to say it. I'm in Robin Hood heavily and I know it didn't doesn't deserve 150. Am I happy it gets there? Sure. Am I crying that it's not there anymore? Absolutely not. A because I didn't buy a 150 because I had enough level of reasonability to say, "Hey, it probably doesn't deserve to just go to the moon for no reason, even if it got into the S&P." And then B, it's like the stock is up 230% even if it's down from 150. Oaklo, if we look at its year-to date, is still up 575% and they have not grown anywhere near like how Robin's grown, even though it's down from 190. Like, this is my point. It's like it it takes a $40 drop and it's still up 5x, which means it could take another 30 40% drop. would still be up 2x and like no one could be that upset about it. Or at least if you own it, you shouldn't be that upset about it because you probably know it might not have deserved to be up 10x in the first place. Yeah, it's only up 500%. That's my point. It's not to pick on any of these companies. Like I I'm not I'm not trying to be biased to anything. I'm just saying like froth is froth. You either either understand froth or you don't understand froth. And if Oakland's not froth to you, then I don't know what is froth. Apploven right here five. Like does apploven deserve to be down from 800? Maybe it deserves to be down. Does deserve to be down as aggressively as it's down? No. But they have a narrative around the SEC probing them for advertising and as a result, this one's getting hit. Oaklo has a narrative around nuclear energy that has not manifested in anything real. This apploven thing is probably going to go away in a couple months, but Apploven's getting hers hurt worse than Oaklo. How does that make sense? It really doesn't fully fully make sense right here. Google 253, that's down from 255. S&P going red on the day but still holding 670 for what we have right now. Uh would you like grab below 550? Yeah, I mean look I like grabb right here as well there. I there's not much I can say for why grab is down from 630 other than because there's no narrative. If anyone has a headline I would love to see the headline and this is why I'm saying it's chalking it up to shorts and manipulation and the data that we have on that is the short float went from 5.7% to 8.3% in the past two weeks. We talked about this two days ago. So all I can say is grab reminds me of SoFi right now when it was stuck at six, seven bucks and the shorts would just could not believe that you know SoFi was ever going to grow. So they kept shorting it. Guess what? No put up the good earnings. The shorts got the hell out and the stock moved higher. I think that could be the same trajectory. Um but I don't have a fundamental narrative for why it deserved to lose 650 when it was trading there for about a month. But that's different from like an Oaklo or a DW, right? It's just different from some of these other stocks that ran up thousands of percent. One could argue for no reason. And now they're taking a bit of a breather. And by the way, Oaklo might not ever get back down to 1020 bucks. It might normalize in the 100s, which again would still keep it up 3 400% for the year, but it it just might not get back to 195, which again, I just don't think anyone can meaningfully complain about. Also, Grab has 84% institutional ownership. Oaklo does not. Like look at where the smart money is going. Sometimes the stock price action is not indicative of where the smart money is loading up on and those are things you have to see through versus companies that have nothing going for them in regards to smart money or institutional ownership because there is no real institutional ownership because the institutions don't care and that is a fundamental difference. Roblox right there down 1% on the day and then the Q's down.13% on the day as well. Let's see if we get any macro data. Let me also pull up the heat map here. It's definitely a red day for what we're seeing. Um, actually it's red, but it's also green. It's just a very small green. Apple's up, Amazon's up, Meta's up, Birkshshire's up, Lily's up, consumer defenses are down, industrials are green, Microsoft's up, Oracle's down. So, it's it's a mix of green and red. Google's getting hit the worst in the Max 7. Then, Amazon's getting the most up 1.4%. People shouldn't be People shouldn't be down that much today, but they probably aren't up a ton as well. Wow. Apple new alltime highs. Yep, look at Apple. 264.84. It hit 265 a second ago. It just got the Wall Street Journal notification. Warner Brothers Discovery says it's exploring a potential sale of all or some of its media holdings, which include HBO and CNN. That is wild, bro. Warner Brothers has been around for a long time. The fact that they're basically saying HBO Max failed. That's basically what they're saying. They're basically saying they weren't able to compete in the streaming era, which like, yeah, it's not easy to compete in the streaming era. And HBO Max has some really good content, but still, Warner Brothers was a media company. They decided to become a tech company with the streaming platform. And it's not easy to compete with technology. It's not easy to compete with Apple Plus and Netflix. And like, that's a whole different ballgame. A whole Also, CNN Plus ruthlessly failed. I mean, that thing lasted for literally five days before they shut it down. So, that one also did not give them a lot of momentum. Iran right there down 5% of the day continues to go down. Baba's down 3%. The VIX actually up 2.8. So, you got the VIX moving higher. Uh, still below 20, which is good to see, but the VIX is up. The final season of Game of Thrones literally killed HBO. Agreed. And I didn't even watch Game of Thrones, but from all my friends that I heard about, they could not stand the ending of Game of Thrones. So maybe that was the the nail in the coffin. Why is Google down? Google is not Oaklo. Okay, so again like we cannot make these types of comparisons. Google is Google and Google will go up, Google will go down. It's it's a stock. A stock will go up, a stock will go down. The difference between Google and Oaklo outside of a couple trillion dollars in market cap is that Google does a hundred billion dollars in profit every year. Oaklo does nothing. So, when I say Oaklo's not getting back to all-time highs, there's a difference. Oaklo now down 8% on the day. Google will probably continue to grow over the next decade and they will probably more valuable than what they are today. And Google itself had a narrative issue for nine months this year that it just broke out of three weeks ago. Oaklo might be able to grow over the next 10 years if they actually end up putting up the earnings results, but as of now, none of that's there. And they're getting a massive premium for no reason. That That's my point. That's the point. It's not about comparing stocks that are red on the day. It's about the velocity at which one went to the moon and then came back down and another one that is down 1% but is up from 150 because they don't have to worry about the DOJ anymore. It's completely different sectors, different names, but different opportunities to understand across the board. Yeah. I I see this is the problem. I don't I don't want to have to explain the difference between Google and Oaklo. And this is has this is this is goes back to the conversation I was having a couple days ago. This is what made me scared on Technical Tuesday last week. We had a lot of people in the chat asking for these penny stocks and TA on all these random OTC companies. And I'm like, "Oh, this is not a good sign. This is too many people are trying to find the next shiny object." And now having to explain the difference between Google and Oaklow continues to reinforce that point that there is froth in the system. That froth is not indicative of a market top in my opinion because that froth could go to zero and Nvidia will be fine. But it's not good in any sense of the imagination objectively to have that froth if we're trying to get to the next leg up on the S&P. We should have good quality companies join the rally and diversify in the rally, not your random run-of-the-mill narrative on an OTC that someone saw on Twitter and that now is going crazy because they bought 10,000 shares because it's $2 and they think it's going to go to $5. It's just not healthy. And maybe in 2020 when I was five years ago and I was a much more naive investor, I would have said, "Oh yeah, that's awesome." And now I'm just like, "No, this is stupid. This is stupid." Objectively, it's stupid. We need to call it what it is. And we need to make sure that does not permeate across the market. And and and you know, and and I I I've lost a ton of money betting on those names back in 2020. Like it's you go through the hard lessons of losing money and then you realize, oh, that stuff is stupid. and you try not to lose money anymore, but having it come back is not the best thing that we want to see. Nabius right here also getting wrecked 10471. It did hit 102. I don't know if this one wants to go below 100, but 10454. Nabius, by the way, even after this decline from 140 to 104 is still up 240% year to date. And Nebius is not a meme stock. Nebius is a legit company with legit earnings, legit revenue, quite frankly, a fantastic revenue growth rate after that. Microsoft news. So, you know, no one should be complaining that Nebis is down from 140. It's still up more than 2.5x for the year. But when people complain about that stuff, it goes to show how much greed is really in the markets and that stuff needs to get wiped out. It just has to get wiped out. Eatzilla did a reverse split and that's why ETHZ is uh down 12% on the day. Reverse splits. I mean, that's another function of these stocks getting overhyped. I've been in stocks that do a reverse split and then, you know, you go from 10,000 shares to 100 shares and uh yeah, the share price goes up in order for it to continue being listed on the NASDAQ because you have to be above a certain price, but your share your actual shares go down. Your ownership in the percentage company stays the same, but the stock usually sells off after a verse split because no one wants to be part of a company that can't even keep their share price above. I mean, this is what almost happened to Openor at 50 cents. You need to be above a dollar to be listed. And then Eric Jackson came in and kind of started that movement that changed the narrative with open door, but they were about to go through a re a reverse split just to stay listed. So companies that don't have a massive retail movement like an open door, you know, they're they're going to have to end up taking that reverse split because there's no other option they have to stay listed on the NASDAQ or on the on the New York Stock Exchange. But we are relatively seeing a red day. Gold. Gold is still Wow. Gold loses 42. We were at freaking 42 during the pre-market. Look at that. 4180. So, gold is actually officially getting hit today. Silver, are we below 49? Wow. Silver, hold on. 12 cents away from 49. 12 cents away from from losing 49. And then you get to the 48s and we see what goes down from there. Silver down 6%, Grab now down 4% and gold down 4.2% as well. Oscar announced a partnership with OpenAI yesterday. That's why Oscar is running. Um, looks like they're going to be incorporating more agents into their healthcare facilities. So Oscar right there, that's up 3.2% on the day. Uh, I think it's a good partnership. The real thing that matters about Oscar is when this shutdown is going to end. And so far we don't really have updates on it. Mike Johnson, he was live this morning and basically he said um I mean he said the same thing, right? He said it's a Schumer shutdown. He said the Democrats are to blame. I mean they they every time they go live they say the same thing. They just blame each other. So I I don't know if we're going to get any capitulation. You did have Hasset yesterday say by the end of this week there might be some type of a deal. You know, we're going to have to see if that ends up playing out. But as of now, we don't have any remedy for the shutdown shutdown yet. Chia says, "This is why you shouldn't FOMO." I agree. This is also why you shouldn't FOMO. Um, this is what Mike Johnson said about 20 minutes ago on the shutdown. Was that muted? Was that muted? Oops, that was muted. My bad.
>> All right, it's back.
>> Is so clear. Remember, it was over a month ago that the House did our job and we passed a clean continued resolution, a totally nonpartisan 24-page, very simple piece of legislation to just keep the lights on so that Congress could continue to do the work of appropriating the the funds for the annual budget and also for navigating all the rest of the issues we have on the table throughout the end of the year. The the Democrats voted it down. They've done it now almost a dozen times, as you said, because they're playing partisan games. They filed a counter proposal. Uh don't let's not let anybody forget what they filed as their their counter offer. Their CR is not a clean one. It's a dirty one because they want to spend up trillion half new dollars on all sorts of wasteful programs, including $200 billion to fund health care benefits on the backs of American taxpayers for illegal aliens. They want to give a half a billion dollars back to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting to prop up leftist news organizations. and they want to spend billions of dollars overseas on all sorts of extraneous crazy kinds of programs.
>> Day 21 of the shutdown and on the 21st day, what is Johnson doing? He continues to point the fingers at Democrats and the Democrats are pointing the fingers at the Republicans. I mean, again, I don't know what gets them to the table. The other quote that Hasset had yesterday was that if the uh if the shutdown doesn't happen, uh the government will look into more strategic options to get the Democrats to the table. I don't know what that means. I don't know how, you know, if they don't negotiate on healthcare, which is the biggest lynch pin of getting the shutdown to be resolved, I don't know what else they're going to focus on. But it just doesn't look like they're easily getting to resolve things. And as a result, we will continue to be shut down until this ends up fixing up. Um, so that's what we have on the shutdown. Caliber says, "Amit you can still be honest and truthful about these energy stocks without being an ass about it." I don't think I'm being an ass about it, dude. I If if if being an ass if if saying Oaklo is up 5x even after it's down 40 bucks and it probably doesn't deserve to be 193 is being an ass, then okay, I guess I'm an ass. If someone gets offended by saying Oaklo is up 500% and probably doesn't deserve to go up another 30%. Even after it's up 500% on no revenue and no earnings, then I I I guess that's the new definition of an these days. I don't know. But like that's this is also this is not saying, hey AMD deserves to go to It's not saying Google deserves to go. It's saying a company with no revenue and no earnings doesn't deserve to be up 6,000%. I think that's I think that's actually being a little bit more responsible around thinking of some of these names in a bull market that I want to see continue. My life is more fun if the bull market continues. But it's not going to be fun if we say, "Oh, look, Oakllo is going to the moon." Like, that's not fun. And it's not fun because even if I owned Oakllo, I I I know that that's not sustainable. Like, it's just not. Every market has not had the ability to sustain stupid names going up on nothing other than narratives. And by the way, Paler was a narrative stock for a long time. Guess what happened in the early 2024. They put up the growth. I mean, pound the paler would have been a narrative stock for the past couple years if they had not pivoted in 2024 and actually started growing upwards of 30% now at 50%. But they put up the growth and the growth changed everything. So if Oak puts up the growth, the narrative changes everything. Like you start to get something substantial. If D-Wave puts up the growth, the narrative changes. But like these companies aren't putting up any growth, there's nothing. It's vaporware. It's just excitement. And if you're in these stocks, you have to understand that as well. And if that it gets you offended, then I I don't know what to say. I'm not shorting them. I don't have an agenda. I don't have puts on these things. I don't have an agenda to make them come down. I just want to be more reasonable about the health of this bull market because if we lose momentum across the actual stocks that matter, then then you can kiss Oaklo goodbye. If Nvidia falls 20%, yeah, like that then you're really done. But the only way for Nvidia to not fall 20% is for the health of the bull market to actually be sustainable enough where a stock like Oaklo can still be up 5x, even 2x if it falls another 30%. without earnings. And I think that's the most important thing to try to figure this out. Is flushing out all the froth by himself. Oh my gosh. To aid's point, Oaklo can't even produce energy until at least 2030. Yeah, dude. What are we talking about? What are we talking about? I don't care if the secretary of energy knows the brothers on the board of directors. Like, all this stuff is nonsense. Like, where's the where's the actual growth? Where's the actual earnings? Until we get that, we cannot be championing these names. It's just that simple. It's just that simple. Um, where's BMR? What do we have on BMR? And again, I I know some people think that BMR is similar to that category, but that I think that misses the point of understanding Ethereum. You can hate a digital asset treasury. That's fine. you don't have to like the concept of of a DAT, but to to have beef with BMR, you need to have much more sophisticated beef with Ethereum. And Ethereum, I mean, we we've covered the story pretty extensively over the past couple of weeks, really the past couple months, ever since these DATs started getting excited. Ethereum is showing real growth. Stable coin supply is 300 billion. 62% of that stable coin supply, which basically wasn't even an industry 10 years ago, is on Ethereum. tokenization across the board. Black Rockck, Robin Hood, PayPal, all these companies are using layer 2s on Ethereum. So, this is not something where yeah, the price is now moving like crazy, which is actually kind of bullish to me, but the actual uh use cases, I mean, literally 1.4 billion users on Alipe in China are now using a layer 2 on Ethereum. Like, these are real things that are happening that you can point to versus just pure narratives at the end of the day. Amazon, are we moving past 220? Amazon 221 that's up 2.16%. So some of this money coming out of froth and going into Amazon going into Amazon. AS is the same as Oakllo. So the only reason I would disagree here and yes doesn't have revenue is AS has a lot of deals in the pipeline that one can easily see the revenue coming. Oaklo has actually nothing. Dude, that's the difference. ESTs is a phenomenal business model and they have tons of deals and partnerships with massive companies like a Verizon where the revenue is coming like there's actually something substantially you could still say it's overvalued for sure but you can't say there's nothing there a lot of these other names that have run there is nothing there and and that's the part where it's just it becomes something that ultimately is unsustainable and they have a few satellites in orbit that's also true as well the beer spirit is making a bit grouchy. There you go. Beyond volume 550 million, dude. Holy crap. Still up 45%. It was up 70%. Uh, so it's down from that 70% move, 214, but still green on the day. All right, let's see if we have any econ Oh, can Canada's inflation came out. Okay, annual inflation rate in Canada rose to 2.4% in September. Wow, that's a big move. 1.9% last month, 2.4%. Street thought it would come in at 2.3. It is the first time inflation crossed the Bank of Canada's 2% threshold in six months. Okay, so Canada not really signaling the best potential for America's CPI, which is going to be coming out on Friday. I don't even know how they're calculating it because the government is shut down. So, we're going to see what they say. But you do have Canada inflation that's ramping up a bit right here. Not really affecting the broader market. But that is one piece of macro data. Nvidia right here down 1.3%. The S&P 500 670 69. Shopify was up 5% yesterday. Where is Shopify today? Down 2%. Pretty much everything outside of Amazon quite frankly taking a hit today which is okay because a lot of it ran up yesterday. S&P if we don't lose 670 I think that would be pretty bullish. It looks like it wants to lose 670, but if we can hold above it, that would be nice to see. Doug said, "I bought puts on D-Wave." Okay. Yeah, the bottom is definitely in on D-Wave. Doug Doug Doug is officially setting. Doug, did you buy it at freaking 3184? And then we got these green candles. There you go. That's your bottom on Dwight. Yeah, it does look like everyone's flowing into uh Amazon right here on the day 221. Abselera, that's down 2.3% as well. That one taking a hit. Meta down half a percent. Salesforce down 1.24. I mean, look, Salesforce at this valuation. I don't love Salesforce the company, but I mean, you probably should catch a bid in the midst of some of these people looking for more potential value opportunities. Bitcoin getting green 109.4 before and then Ethereum at 3,900. Ethereum at 3,900. Where's Amcore today? It was up in the pre-markets. Amcore 3201. All right, so holding above 32. Um, let's see what else we have in the pre-markets as well. Um, Jinszo, thanks for the $10 super chat. Emit, have you considered your streaming would be impacted in a legit bare market, say three-year downturn? Is anyone watching? That actually goes to my point. Like, I would like to not stream every day in a bare market. It would kind of suck. I remember 2022. And the way to make sure that we don't have a bare market as easily is if stocks with no earnings or fundamentals keep running to the moon because at that point, you're you're bound to get, you know, some level of a massive retracement. So yeah, look, it's not as fun to care about the markets when everything's tanking. Uh but you know, the best way to hopefully not have that happen is if you have a slow fundamental reason for the rally even taking place in the first place, which is which is what matters. Um Yoko, thank you for becoming a channel member. I mean, could you do a deep dive on Chime? I have not looked at Chime. I know Tanner is getting a little bit more interested in Chime Financial and the reason for that is because the stock is down 50% from its IPO. Uh so Tanner thinks it looks a little bit more attractive here. I have not gone super deep into them. I can take a look. I know that Sofi's numbers are objectively better, but Chime's valuation probably now is a bit more attractive given it's not at 48 and back down to 18. Yeah, Tanner in the chat right there, he says it's definitely a bit more interesting. And that's what we got. Um, when markets are down, I've noticed viewership is way up. That's also true, but I feel like so like when the market goes down, more people want to know what's happening, right? So naturally, viewers will increase. This is why CNBC tries to capitalize on, you know, like scaring people and all that stuff. The problem is if you have a 2022 type of year where every day people tune in knowing they're just going to lose money, people kind of want to stop tuning in, right? You kind of check out mentally. Now, I think there's enough junkies in here that will still care about the markets and the dynamics of it every single day because, you know, we're obsessed with it. But the general person just says, "All right, the markets suck. Stock market's not doing anything. Who cares?" Gold, by the way, continuing to go down. Now, down about 3.72%. On the day. Um, yeah, Amazon really is one of the only green names today. Reddit's up a little bit and then Amazon 221 2.4% and it's crazy that after the outage, Amazon is still getting some of this love, but you are seeing it get a bit more of a move. Uh, Coca-Cola CEO is on. Let's listen to him and see if we can get any insight on what's going on with the state of the consumer based on their earnings
>> up nicely. Almost 4% I I mean organic revenue growth of 6% is higher than what we're seeing in the industry right now. Talk about what you're seeing from consumers around the globe.
>> Look, we we're seeing the strong results from Coca-Cola because we're basically investing uh in a great industry. we're the leader and we're gaining share and and what we've been able to do is to adapt to the different dynamics that consumers are facing. You can see that in the US uh with the kind of the higher end of the income pyramid still got lots of spending power, still outspending and you see growth in the channels and the products uh they're most interested in. Uh and but you do see the lower income consumers under pressure uh doing some value seeking behavior whether that be channel or the pack sizes or the price point. You see some of that in Europe too. So there's a there's a difference across the world. You see some economic sluggishness in parts of Asia. Um but overall aggregate consumer demand is there. Uh and we've been able to drive that and turn that into a good result for the Coke company.
>> Why then aren't we seeing more volumes? I think 1% overall volumes uh flat in in North America. Why not the kind of volume growth that you want to see? Uh I think what we saw in this quarter yes we we I I certainly would like to see more volume growth in our algorithm of the total company. We expect to see more of the volume growth come from more of the emerging markets and what we saw in the third quarter a bit of a similar trend uh to the year is some pressure in some of the key emerging markets for us. India uh was below our expectations a lot of early monsoon action and some local local dynamics there. uh China didn't come in as strong while Coke grew uh we underperformed and and didn't get the volume growth we wanted uh in China and also some of the Azan markets. Uh so there were some weaknesses in our emerging markets that should drive volume growth that certainly have driven volume growth in the past as well as some issues in Mexico. So I think those will revert themselves.
>> So that's pretty good to see although there are some issues in various countries by the way Amazon making new highs of day. uh the Koch CEO saying aggregate consumer demand is there. This is similar to what JP Morgan said, similar to what City Bank said, similar to what the Levi CEO said uh three weeks ago when they had the the first earnings of of the cycle and and they said, "Hey, people are buying clothes, people are buying jeans, we're seeing consumer demand." Like the fact that pretty much all of these CEOs are not arguing with the idea of um of consumer demand, I think it's pretty damn bullish to see. Even though we do have a lot of conflicting data around consumers and delinquencies, but if the earnings are being put up, that means consumers are continuing to buy. Coca-Cola, right? They're up 3.84% on the day. Aid, are you still buying SoFi before earnings? I really wanted SoFi at 26.50, 50. So I don't know if it gets below if it gets to at least like 27 probably, but I don't want to buy at 2860. So I'll sell some puts most likely and if SoFi goes to the moon, I'll collect the premium. If it doesn't, then I'll get SoFi at a better price. But it kind of just ran away from me last week. So it might not be easy to get back into this one. S&P 671 about to go green on the day. Nvidia back up from 179 to 181. than Tesla still flat on the day. The thing about Amazon and I was saying this yesterday on the market close. I I do want to caution people here. If they do not show AWS acceleration, I can see the stock going below 200 pretty easily. I don't think it's going to stay there for a while, but the market is always I mean, if you remember two quarters ago, Amazon went from 200 to 185 back to 200 within three days because you know AWS was 17.2% and 17 instead of 17.5%. like the market is so volatile when it comes to cloud growth because they think that Amazon is losing share to Google and Microsoft which to an extent in certain areas they are because those companies are growing like crazy but it's also Amazon that has done this since 2006 and so the base that they're growing off is much greater I mean take a look at this chart right here 76 million websites are hosted on Amazon's infrastructure this is why yesterday when one of their largest servers in the northeast goes down the entire world feels the pain. Coinbase, Snapchat, Robin, I mean all those companies just get like nuked if this plays out. But 76 million websites running on this infrastructure is not a joke and it proves Amazon's moat. So look, if AWS growth is bad, I think the stock tanks. If AWS growth is even somewhat reasonable or better than expected, I think it gets potentially rerated. not like a Google rerating, but it at least gets to the point where it might not be as ugly as before. Here was a journalist who's in the tech space, and this is not confirmed yet, but they put this out yesterday. Anthropic spent 2.6 billion on AWS in the first three quarters of 2025, around 100% of their estimated revenue. Its costs appear to increase with their revenue, showing little path to profitability. So, the the punchline of the article is that Anthropic is not making any money, similar to OpenAI. However, the fact that they're spending almost 100% of their revenues on AWS in particular goes to show the growth that Amazon is getting from these AI workloads and you know they're not going to get 2.6 billion from every single client that they have. But if AI workloads in general are increasing on AWS, you should see a potential increase in guidance for Q4 even if it's by.3% that can get the street to think okay the story is reacelerating. And I think that's would make the story more exciting. Bitcoin, are we moving? Bitcoin 110. Okay, that's a nice $1,100 candle from 108 to 110. Ethereum 3942. That's waking up a little bit from 3750. Bit mine 5331. That's starting to go a bit more green. And Micro Strategy also starting to go a bit more green as well. 297.5 is what you have there. Amazon's about to be up 1% year to date. There you go. The fact, dude, the fact that half the world shut down yesterday and the stock is up 1%. It just goes to show how important valuations and narratives are in a market because you could have something that is so important like an Amazon. I mean, literally thousands and thousands of businesses across the country could not operate. I mean, think about how much money Robin Hood and Coinbase lost yesterday because people couldn't trade for like I think it was almost for seven hours. My I didn't get my Robin Hood back until 3 PM in the night or in in the afternoon, which is an hour away from market close. And you know, Amazon is barely is quite incredible to see how the market thinks of this stuff. Zeta's up 3.5% of the day. Zeta 1915. And then what's the other one? Um, VG, this one was below 8 938. Not too bad. I know it's down from the 15s because of that BP case, but at least that one's making a little bit of a move in the next decade. Still down 1% of the day. My brother works for Amazon. He said they lost a ton of money yesterday. Expect to see that in Q4 earnings. Well, that's the other thing, and I'm happy you bring that up. Uh, they're going to have to give some vouchers to some of these companies. I mean, they're going to have to give some service credits. Wow. Amazon 222 new high of day to a Robin Hood or a Snapchat or a Coinbase. I mean, I don't know if it's going to be tens of millions or hundreds of thousands, but they're going to have to give something to say, "Hey, sorry. Please don't leave us." Just like CrowdStrike did. And that could be a one-time hit for their Q4 margins, which again, if they guide in a negative way, that could get the street to also be upset. And so I really think Amazon's either going to be a hit or miss going into earnings, but I think long term it's freaking Amazon and it's an easy stock to buy the dip on. But those are the dynamics going into Q4 that we're going to have to look up. Um 3M is moving. That's correct. 3M they had a good earnings as well with the EU Freudian slip saying 3 PM etc. is the night. Dude, I'm I'm excited to uh to visit Europe next year. EM right or 3M right there up 4%. Definitely excited to hopefully have some meetups and see everyone in the region. Dualingo 319. Let's look at the stock draft today. What do we have there? Matt is still definitively in the lead, 48%. Uh Tanner's at 20, Steve's at eight, I'm at 36, and Chris is at 10. So, Matt Money, AS, and Rocket Lab continuing to bring in some more momentum. Weeble actually recovered towards the end of the day yesterday at 1190, back down to 1130. Weeble was $80 at one point last year. So, I mean, this was another one of those names that had a massive run up for no reason and then came back down to reality and it has barely gotten above 15 ever since it lost 80. And this is some of the stuff that can happen to these names that are running like crazy for no reason. Like how like dude, how eagm Imagine buying Weeble at forget 80, at 50, at 40, at 60, at 70. Like you're not getting back to those levels anytime soon. You're you're you're done. You got to take the loss on that. And if that's what happens in some of the names that have been running, it's just going to create a different dynamic in terms of how people think of a lot of those names. Lyft. Lyft is green. Lyft is up about 2%. Lyft is up about 2% on the day. Uber as well slightly flat on the day as well. Yeah, that's the other worst thing as as people are saying right here in the chat. I mean, imagine if you were on margin and you were on some of these names buying them at at their highs. Like then not only are you down on the stock, you have to pay back the money. And now you got to figure out how to get the money to pay back the margin. And we know that, dude, we know Verizon right there, 1.2%. Chris and Steve had a great episode on Verizon yesterday. I actually watched it last night on Steve's podcast. So definitely would recommend people who are interested in a yield play going into 2026 to listen to it. But like we know there's a record level of margin debt out there. There's 1.13 trillion dollars of margin debt. It's the most in history. Are we sure that there's not people out there that have used margin to buy some of these names that have done nothing in terms of earnings growth, but have done everything in terms of pumping their narrative over the past six months? Like I'm sure there's some people who bought some of these speculative names on margin and if they bought them at the top, which is when most people buy because that's when FOMO is the highest. If those names don't come back, that margin's done. And again, I think that's just fraud that has to has to get out of the system. Take a look at this chart right here. We looked at this yesterday in the market close, but look at gold inflows. Gold down 4% on the day, but 34 billion, not in the past year, in the past 10 weeks, 3.4 billion a week is coming into gold and silver or gold ETFs. And then gold and silver together, 7.5 billion over the past four weeks. By the way, when I was on the path yesterday coming back from New York City back to New Jersey, you know, the number one advertiser in the in the train that was like it was plastered all over the walls. I mean, you you could not look anywhere on the path uh which is like for those that aren't part of the the tri-state area. It's basically like this train that connects New Jersey and New York together. The number one advertiser was Mumu. And I was like, "What is this Chinese brokerage doing advertising all across this New York City train? It's like just like it was literally hundreds because it's a really long train. Like you know how different advertisers pay for different ad spots. They must have paid for the entire train." And I was like this like you know it's not Robin Hood, not Coinbase, it's freaking mumu. And so I was surprised. I was like, the fact that these Chinese brokerages are trying to get these many users with this type of brand advertising is quite incredible. But this is what you would see in a bull market, right? People want to invest. So, you would see that more people are willing to advertise to to get those investors. Yeah, Mumu is huge in Asia 100%. I just, you know, it it's doesn't have the type of American presence that it has in Asia, but the fact that they're going after that American presence to me was incredible. Yeah, they're all on YouTube. They sponsor a bunch of you. I mean, dude, they've reached out to me like 50 times. I'm just But I just, you know, I don't I don't really like doing the sponsorships. But it it it is it is quite incredible the amount of attention these brokerages are trying to generate because they know that this is a bull market. This is the time where you get people to get onto these platforms. Apple right here up half a percent on the day. PayPal up half a percent. Then Salesforce now breaking out a little bit, 2.39% as well on the day. Yes, Mumu was not affected yesterday. And if you use them as your brokerage, you didn't have that much of an issue with uh with AWS. Um, okay. Let's see some of the other headlines we have. Is Nebus recovering a little bit? Nebas was at 104. Nebas to 106. All right. Nice little Vshape on Nebus. So, you're not seeing a ton of pain right there. Again, I I I hate to bring it up, but you're you're not really seeing that same Vshape on an Oaklow. Still down 8% on the day. So again, like a Nebia should have a Vshape because a Nebia is a very high quality company. It doesn't have to go back to 140, but it probably, you know, when the market starts to algorithmically bottom during the intraday at 102 to 105, it's nice to see that some of these other names are not getting that V. They're staying stuck. or if they're getting a V, it's a very slight V, which means there's not really any momentum to bring them back to their intraday highs. And that's how you know some of this momentum is really starting to fade out. Salesforce right there, 260. And then Meta up 15% on the day. Air Test Systems, this is a stock that Roy really likes. Uh, this is down 8%. I'm not sure why this one's down. He did do a video on this on his channel for those that are interested. He thinks it's going to be a really important player in the semiconductor ecosystem. that stock up 60% year to date as well. 60% year to date. Um I want Nebus to go to 60. That's why I sold it. See, I don't know if we get that opportunity like because that would be discounting pretty much the entirety of the Microsoft deal. And that's where you have to be more reasonable and be like, "Yeah, look, it's probably not going back to 60." I mean, if that happens, you're probably having a broader macro collapse, but it also doesn't need to stay stuck at 140, right? Like that that's more euphoria. Same thing with Hood at 150. That's more euphoria. And, you know, coming back down because because it was at it was at what 65 or 55 right before the Microsoft deal. I was live with with with uh Sam when that deal came out and and and couch investor and uh Jose and we saw it go from either 50 or 60 all the way up to 103 and then you know it took a little bit of a breather came back down to 85 and then over the next month it went up to 140 but I don't think it goes back down to where it was before that that Microsoft deal. Steve's milk brand is Mumu. Dude, Mumu should sponsor Steve. Literally milk, cows, mooing. I mean, the the synergy in that, that is what needs to happen. That is what has to happen. He needs to get a mumu deal ASAP for his channel. Microsoft flat on the day. Speaker Johnson is still live. This guy's been live for like an hour, bro. He's just live for an hour talking about the Democrats. I'm curious when we are going to get any resemblance of a negotiation. I mean, Trump on Sunday did say they're getting closer to something. I don't know what Trump meant by that, but he did say we're having better conversations. It's just it seems like publicly those conversations are just blaming each other back and forth. Uh, we got Mike Wilson on. Let's see what he has to say. Mike Wilson's been pretty bullish over the past year. Let's get his thoughts on how the Fed should be operating going into the end of the year
>> in layoffs. And there was a a low in all the jobs creation, which the revisions now are proving. And the stock market figured this out. The stock market is smarter than all of us. And and and the confirmation for us is that the earnings revisions now have really exploded higher in a way they only do in a new economic cycle.
>> That that's what I think is so interesting. David Solomon was here just a little bit ago and he called this late cycle. You think we're still early cycle?
>> Well, I think we just transitioned. Now, what where I think I also differ have been differing is that these cycles aren't going to last that long, right? We're in we're now in an inflationary regime. It's very different than all of our careers where inflation was coming down. And what that means is that these cycles can't be elongated the way that they were because the Fed has to respond ultimately to higher inflation. Think about the last 5 years. two years on 2020 2021 one year off had a nice recovery in 23 24 then we had another kind of capitulation recession and this
>> gold officially down 5% folks gold officially down 5% I'm going to try to find the data on the last time it had a 5% down day silver down 7.5 looks like all the commodities are taking a hit right now
>> year and now we're into a new two-year cycle so you just got to keep that in the back of your mind
>> that that's not that different than what he was saying then he what David Solomon was saying we're late cycle this could have another year or two to run.
>> That's right. But it's but I think that context is important to distinguish because if it's late cycle then you only want to own sort of defensive highquality names in an early cycle new recovery. The market will expand. It will broaden out and that's kind of what's starting to happen now. We think that's a story for 26. It looks a lot like 21 in that regard.
>> What do you like?
>> Well, we like a we like a lot we like a barbell at the moment because we still think the Fed needs to cut rates. So, we've been on the cyclical side. We have liked a lot of the tech sector. We have liked financials. We have like industrials. That's the the pro side on the on the on the cyclical side. And on the defensive high quality side, it's, you know, it's basically healthcare right now. We think healthcare looks quite interesting. Now, we do think the Fed will get with the program and they will start cutting rates in a more meaningful way once the labor data confirms what we all know, which is that the labor market's not that not that good. And when that happens, then we can really transition to the interest rate sensitive parts of the market that have been languishing. things like housing, things like consumer goods, all the durable goods, the the areas that where there's pent-up demand.
>> How how difficult is it to not have government data at this point? Yeah, because you sound so sure in your beliefs on these things.
>> Well, I think the government data that we're waiting for, everybody's, you know, waiting for is mostly the the jobs data, but that's backward-looking. I think we've already confirmed that the trough was in in April. That doesn't mean, by the way, we're totally out of the woods. But what it means is that I don't think we're going to learn a whole lot from this data that we're not seeing at the moment. I think it gives comfort. I think it will give the Fed the cover to do what I think they need to do, which is cut rates in a more meaningful way. So that's to me that's the risk is that we don't get the data that allows the Fed to cut more meaningfully.
>> And and when you say more meaningfully, you're talking about more than 25 basis points at a clip.
>> Exactly. I let me just put it in context. So the Fed is behind the curve in my view until they get ahead they get lower than two-year Treasury yields. Okay. It's about 75 85 basis points. So that's just three cuts to get to neutral. to get ahead of the curve, they probably got to cut 150 plus. And the only way they're going to do that is if we get weaker labor data, which I think is probably forthcoming, or we get some sort of bond volatility or financial stress, the third mandate, if you will.
>> All of your thoughts about the market continuing to climb from here. What would happen if we do get some of that bond market turmoil that you're talking about or tensions continue on this China trade front? Because that's been the macro issue that has made markets wobble recently. Yeah. So, I want to distinguish our 12-month view is quite constructive for the reasons I just laid out. But on a in a short-term basis, this is probably the first time since April that I think we have maybe a tradable correction. And it would be those three things you mentioned. First, the China US trade tensions. We're kind of walking towards this, you know, deadline. The markets may get nervous around that. And by the way, it's it's a correction. It's not like we're going back to where we were in April, but but you know, a 10% correction would feel pretty nasty. The second reason would be we get funding market stress which by the way the chair chair Powell talked about last week. That's one of the reasons why we may, you know, end QT a little bit earlier next year because we're starting to see a little bit of funding stress which is essentially the bank reserves are maybe a little bit too low for the liquidity we need not just for the financial markets but now for this economy which I think it could be booming next year. So those are two reasons I think we could see some corrective activity in the near term. I don't think it derails our core view on the rolling recovery. It's nice you said all of us have spent our entire careers in a low inflation environment.
>> It was nice that you one exception.
>> Yeah, it's nice that you threw me in there and and ju just to cuz it's hard to believe uh inflation rate right when I started in the business 13 and a half%. inflation rate 13 and a half. We you don't have to worry when you think about things being bad, think of I mean
>> okay because it creates earnings growth. It's just different.
>> Yeah. And
>> painful for everybody living through it though.
>> Well, it's painful for the consumer, right? And that's why we have this bifurcated economy. But don't fear inflation next year. In fact, if we don't get inflation next year, I'll probably get more bearish because that means the earning story is probably not going to deliver on what people are expecting. H.
>> So, Mike Wilson kind of making a very similar argument that he's made. By the way, S&P regaining 671 over the past um over the past couple weeks now, which is that we are in the beginning of a new bull market. And that beginning of a new bull market is uh emblematic of the earnings growth that we're seeing, but also of the massive draw down. By the way, the tenure right here 3.955 still below four of the April draw down. So, and this is the same thing Tom Lee says that once you have this massive April 30% draw down, stocks bottomed and historically when you have a bottom after a 30% draw down, you tend to enter into a new cycle, which is kind of crazy to imagine because that 30% draw down basically happened for no reason with all the liberation tariff stuff. But the fact that it did happen is something that can't be ignored. And if that introduces a new part of the cycle, then it's a totally different dynamic of how to think historically of what this bull market looks like. But you're seeing that in some of the numbers potentially based on the earnings growth that we could get. 671 right here on the S&P 1030. Not really getting a massive slam. You're actually getting a little bit of a reversal. Bitcoin 108 to 110. Nice to see that. Ethereum back almost to 40 or to 4,000. And then BMR just below 53 but still holding above 50. Wow. China imported no soybeans from the US in September, the first time since November 2018. Bro, I thought they were just joking about the soybean I thought I didn't think they were serious. China's really not buying our soybeans. I thought they were just like messing around. They really don't want our soybeans. Damn. No soybeans since November. Remember 2018, the the reason the rally got messed up outside of the Fed hiking was uh the the soybean trade war drama with China. Now, given Trump's deescalation over the past couple of days, it seems like, you know, he literally said, "I think we'll get a deal on soybeans with China." So, he is confident that they'll figure something out, but it looks like they're not buying it. It looks like they are not buying it. Yeah, this is why it's Yeah, 100%. This is why it's hard to separate politics from the stock market. I mean, when when there's implications of these political events within stocks and obviously within commodities, futures, goods, etc. Like, it's hard to to be separated from it. Triple V, thank you for the $200 super chat. Thank you for being here, Mr. Triple V, as well. Appreciate you being here and being part of the channel. Going back to the conversation we were having about frothy names going up for no reason. I mean TripleV who's become uh you know a a mentor of mine along with Derek. I mean they they have been part of this cycle many many many times. They've made a lot of money on frothy names but they both I mean he triple V literally shorted I think it was a couple million shares of open door at 10 bucks and it was a really good short. I think he covered like 830. So, it's like, you know, you when when you when you talk to people who have seen these cycles, plenty of you guys in the chat have been around bubble 2008, like you've seen these cycles and these cycles when these names run up for no reason, like until they can pivot the company. And Openoro, by the way, is actually a special case because that CEO I'm actually pretty bullish on. And if they can somehow pivot the company to produce like earnings, that stock does not have to go to zero by any sense of the imagination. But, you know, Triple V, Derek, they've been in these cycles where these names go up like crazy. They've lost money on some of these names before. They've also made money by recognizing, hey, you just don't need to get into these names because these names are likely a fat of the moment that until they put up growth are going to come and go, like a lot of names that are out there. Thoughts on UNH gapping up? Uh, look, I like UNH here. They revised their guidance, I think, two weeks ago. That's why they got a bunch of price target upgrades and that's why the street was excited about them. Um, I think there still are better opportunities in some of these AI names, but UNH is more so you can sleep well at night without having to worry too much even if you don't get massive growth. So, I don't hate UNH here. It has made a pretty big move since the 230 run. Also, dude, we got to see when these 13Gs come out in November on if um if uh I if the big guys sold UNH. So Buffett, Ter, Bur, all these guys own a ton of UNH. I wonder did they sell after the pump from 230 to 370. Now my gut says no because a lot of these guys bought in around 350. And I don't know how many of them double down in the lows of 230, 240, 250. But if they didn't, they're not going to sell for break even. They're probably expecting a $500 stock at least in the next two years to to to make some profits on. But if they did sell, then maybe, you know, they made some quick money and left. And so I am curious when those 13Gs come out. They should be out in like three weeks. It shouldn't be too long until we see the new 13Gs on what happened with UNH. Yeah, Bur probably sold. Buffett most likely held on to it. Ter tends to hold on for at least a year. So I feel like Ter probably held on. Bur is probably out of it though. Amit, would you go long? Ethereum's Black Rockck Fund or just BMR. It depends on the leverage you want. Uh the Ethereum ETF is fine if you want a onetoone proportional move with Ethereum. The other reason why people like BMR, and this is what I wrote in my Substack, um are the call premiums, right? Like if you buy it at 52 and this thing stays stuck between 52 and 60, you're going to significantly reduce your cost bases by even selling, you know, 0.2 deltas on this every week. And so one of the reasons people like Bitmine is because they can artificially decrease their cost bases with the call premiums. And if Ethereum is rangebound between 3500 and let's call it 5,000, then Bitmine's not going to the moon, right? Bit mine's going to stay stuck within a 1.4x premium above that net asset value. So yeah, I think that's another one of the reasons why people like it. Now, the Ethereum ETF on Black Rockck also has some good premiums, but the Bitmine premiums are just a totally different level. Uh, Amit, did you sell calls on Nebius? No, I sold puts on Nebus. So, no calls on Nebus, just puts. I'll just say it right now because, you know, people are probably wondering why I sold puts on it. I'm doing a deep dive on Nebas. Doing a deep dive on Nebus. So, that as I've started to do my research, I'm like, okay, there's something there's something here. Obviously, I missed this stock the whole year. So, a lot of the Nebus bulls know that this is a very special name. I have not concluded if it's worth taking a a real position in, but in the early stages of my deep dive, I'm like, you know what, if I have to own it at 98, I'm not going to be that upset about it. So, that's why I sold some puts at 98, but there will be a deep dive on Nebulius coming up pretty soon. And I am enjoying learning a lot more about the company. I just don't want to buy, dude. I It's the end of the year. I don't want to bagghold anything. Like I don't want to freaking bagghold a name that I'm not fully convicted in like grab I can buy bag hold because my conviction is set and like it's not the company would have to really mess up for me to lose my conviction and so it's easy to bag but I don't want to bagold apploven it. I don't know anything about apploving even though it does feel like it's a deep value opportunity right here but I'm definitely not going to take the risk and hold it in case I'm wrong. Same thing on an ebius. You know, as much as I love it, like if I end up if this thing ends up going back down to 90 and I buy a 106, it's it's not fun to be bag holding 16 bucks when I could have just been a bit more patient. I definitely don't want to bag hold. Definitely don't want to bag hold. Wow, gold down the worst it's been today. Low of days 5.44%. 4106. Goodness gracious. Silver down 7.6. This one's ugly, bro. I'm going to be really curious to see if gold can get a rebound. Who do you think's selling today? By the way, Philip Morris down 10%. Do they have earnings? I think Philip Morris might have had earnings and maybe weren't the best earnings. Uh, who do you think selling? Do you think it's central banks? Do you think it's retail? Do you think it's institutions? Like, who's actually taking profits on gold today? that would be causing that much of a decline. I mean 5% hold on that means gold has lost in terms of market cap um if I'm not wrong gold has lost 1.5 trillion in market cap on that 5%. Yeah, I believe that's 1.5 trillion. So that's a yeah 1.5 trillion or 1.3. It was at 30. Now it's at around 28.8. That's a trillion dollars leaving gold, bro. That's why a 5% move is a big move. That's why a 70% move is also a big move this year that I don't think anyone's been able to explain. But a 5% draw down also takes a big hit. Okay. Okay, Philip Morris did have earnings today, folks. This is why we hired Cactus Jack. This for those that don't know, he has joined AK Media full-time. This is why we have our own Bloomberg terminal. There you go. Philip Morris. Okay, so earnings EPS 224 from 191. That's a beat. Revenue 10.8 versus 9.9. That's a beat. Revenues up 9% year-over-year. EPS 17% year-over-year. And they raised guidance. Why is the stock down 10% on a double beat and a raise of guidance? That is weird. These guys sell cigarettes, right? Yeah, they sell cigarettes. Okay, so they're guiding for more people smoking and they beat on the top and the bottom. This is a $220 billion company. Bro, I didn't think Philip Morris was that big. I thought they were like a $70 billion $220 billion company. Oh, yeah. And Zen Zen, that that that's their main thing, right? Zen. Yeah. I've still never taken Zen before. Yo, put in the chat if you take Zen. Put in the chat if you take Zin because I know it's getting popular with the youth. I can say that now because I'm 28. So, I know the kids these days are uh are popping Zin. You know, in my day, we used to pop Molly, but I guess the kids want to do Zen these days. Do you do Zen? Yes or no? Put a poll in the chat. Just kidding. I've never done Molly. too much of a to do. Too much too much of a scaredy-cat to do something like that. Um, but Zen is like nicotine, but you like put it in your in your gums. It's the weirdest thing ever, bro. You like It's like a pouch of nicotine and you put it in your gums and you just go about your day. I've never understood it, but it's healthier than smoking. I guess there's less like uh there's like no tobacco in it, right? Because it's not a cigarette. It's just nicotine. But there's a lot of CEOs that actually do it as well. It's like it's like this is what it looks like. This thing right here. There's a celebrity that owns a big brand around Zen. I forgot the name of it. But why? That's weird. Why is the stock down 10% on those results? Something in the earnings they must have said is getting the street to not be that excited. Oh, Tucker. Tucker Carlson. Yes, Tucker. That guy, he loves his Zins. No carcinogenics is the big deal about it. Tucker owns ALP. Okay, so there you go. It's just nicotine salt in a nylon pouch. Uh 83% of you say no. Yeah, I've never never done Zen, but it is a big big product. All right, here's the update on Netflix and Warner Brothers and potentially getting that buyout. That of course has been the plan that's been in place for quite some time and one that many expected they might continue to pursue even with Paramount's interest. Um but that being said, citing what is interest from multiple parties, my belief uh my reporting indicating all those parties other than Paramount have been interested in buying the streaming and studio business. But nonetheless, citing all of those multiple parties, again, not naming those parties, but citing multiple parties, the company has said uh that it will initiate a review of strategic alternatives to, of course, what they always say, maximize uh uh shareholder value. And so that process uh will begin. Now, they already have in hand a bid from Paramount. Um, I reported previously, you know, perhaps a range of 22 to 24 largely made up of cash. Uh, at some point I expect to be able to sort of get a sense exactly where Paramount ended their bidding, so to speak, privately. But now, this will become a sort of a public story, if you will. You can take a look at Warner Brothers stock moving up a bit. Remember where it came from, of course, before all of the speculation began with the Wall Street Journal story discussing Paramount's interest in mounting a bid for the company. stock was somewhere around 12 bucks a share. Um,
>> so speaking of content and a lot of these content acquisitions, uh, take a look at this. The only fan CEO is live at a panel right now. Here's two things that she said. Uh, people don't want AI generated content. AI can't replace human created content. So you got the only fan CEO kind of hedging back against a lot of these arguments that quite literally Sam Alman made last week around this whole erotica element of chatbt that the best form of content in that niche is going to be not AI generated. It's going to be for humans. Now, obviously, yeah, she's saying that because she has a business that she wants to continue running, and you need uh human generated content to make that happen. But I wonder, dude, if people start flipping to AI stuff, I mean, what if only fans kind of makes their own AI content? I mean, like, there's a lot of different ways that you could imagine this ends up playing out. You know, my dad, I was with my dad last night for Dvali, and for the first time, my dad asked me, uh, because he's learning a lot more about AI, and he's like reading all these articles about it. like, "Do you think AI is going to affect your career one day?" And I was like, "Yeah, people might not want to listen to a human talk about the stock market. They might want to get their news from an AI." And he was like, "So, so what what how are you going to hedge against?" He's like, "How are you going to protect yourself against it?" I was like, "The only thing I can hope is that more people care about authentic human level creativity over a bot that's providing information to them, right?" And and I don't know. I mean, who knows? Maybe in 10 years, people just don't care about the authentic human to human connection that we have via content and and they they like getting it through something that's more automated. But it is a risk for every single industry, whether you're in content or bluecollar job. Like everyone could be affected by it. Bitcoin moving up, Bitcoin 111, you're getting some momentum right there. All right, Bitcoin, that's a that's a pretty that's a $2,500 candle in the past 20 minutes. So, nice to see Bitcoin making a little bit move. Ethereum still lagging just below 4,000. Can AI mispronounce words as badly as you admit? See, that's not going to happen. And that's why that's why I might be able to keep my job. I told him, I was like, "Dad, I I think hopefully the the the you know, the level of creative, authentic connections that you build in in this type of industry, which is media, are enough to sustain the the the the threat of AI. But no one's safe. No one is freaking safe. And at the end of the day, it comes down to just how much are people going to be using this for every single part of their life over the coming decades. Uh Bitcoin right there again, 111 starting to get a little bit of juice right here. Bitcoin's been doing that over the past couple weeks. It it goes up around this time, 11, then by 2 p.m. it comes down, then by 5:00 p.m. it comes back up. This will be the first October if Bitcoin doesn't make a move where BTC will be down for the first time in 10 years. October would not be happening if Bitcoin does not get to at least they have to get to at least 115. Bitcoin needs to get to 115 by October 31st for it to not which I mean it's 4,000 away which is not that crazy but it has to hold above that by the end of October for it to still be a green October for Bitcoin. No, now hey here here's here's something that I just thought of which some of you guys are probably have been thinking about for the past hour. Maybe Bitcoin is going up because gold is going down. Maybe Bitcoin's going up because gold is going down. I mean, I don't know if everyone selling their gold is getting into Bitcoin, but maybe a little bit of the people that are taking profits on gold are coming over to digital gold. Maybe that's the trend for the next 10 days of October that we get our October or or October. Then again, if you're selling gold, why would you buy digital gold? Like the people that are in gold in the first place probably don't care that much about digital gold. I'm sure there's some people that own both, but I'll say the far majority bought gold instead of Bitcoin for a reason. So if you sell it, do you really go to something that's much more volatile than gold? We're going to have to see if that rotation actually becomes real. Um, call Peter Schiff. Dude, Peter Schiff must be having the time of his life. This guy was on the wrong side of the gold Bitcoin trade for basically seven years. Every interview he would just get humiliated because the price of gold was flat and Bitcoin was going to the moon. And Bitcoin has still done very well. And obviously he would have made a lot of money if he picked Bitcoin over gold. But he must feel like a legend for Bitcoin doubling over the past two years. And he's been talking about it for a long time. It's just during the time that he was talking about it, if he talked about Bitcoin or if he made an investment in Bitcoin, he would be up like 10x, which would be different. Um, yeah, Bitcoin, Salana, Ethereum, Doge, Sheba Enu, and Cardano. All of those are green. Yeah, this might be a little bit of a rotation. Yeah, look at that. Look at the hour chart on all these cryptos. All of them up on the day. This might be a little bit of a rotation, folks, which would be nice to see because a lot of us are in more crypto derivative plays than gold derivative plays. Like the only gold derivative plays are gold miners. And yeah, it's gold miners, right? I mean, that's it. Like you can either do a gold ETF or a gold miner. There's not that many other derivatives to to to go long on gold. S&P 672 high of days. S&P going green along with Bitcoin and Amazon still up 2.2. So, you got Amazon and the S&P going higher. By the way, you know how I said yesterday there's only two real business models in the world. paying for a product or advertising for a product. Aka, you buy a product or service, you pay a company money, or you pay someone to get someone to buy your product or service. And like that's how you can that's how you can categorize the majority of businesses on the planet. I was thinking about it yesterday. There's a third one. There's a third business model that I I think these three encompass the majority of every single business on the planet. One is you buy a product or service. One is advertising. The other one is lending. Lending. I can't believe I forgot that banks I mean the other way to make money on this planet Bit mine going green is you charge people interest on giving them money and you become you know a pseudo bank to be able to to uh to generate yield off the money that you're lending out. I think that's how you could sum up a lot of businesses on the planet. People either directly pay for a product or service, people pay for an advertisement on a product or service or people pay to borrow capital. seems to be those are the three major ways that you know people can end up making money in the broader economy. BMR going green. Matt says my full-time is private money lending. Yeah, I mean lending is a massive Matt. I was thinking about that because I was looking at the margin debt and I was just like all all these brokerages are making tons of money off lending people money and they have to pay for a certain cost of capital for to be able to have the credit line to be able to lend money. So there's someone making money off them lending money. It's like it's this cycle of just people constantly lending out more money and hopefully generating some yield on that money to pay back the money that they're borrowing. Bit mine right there 54 that is green on the day.485% Ethereum is trying to crack 4,000. There it is. Ethereum 4,000. Bitcoin 112. Look at that. 107 to 112 folks. Just this morning it was at 107 at uh was it 8:45? Round about 850. Not bad. A nice little $5,000 candle right there. And then Ethereum back to back to 4,000. Don Vin, thank you for the super chat. I might quit how I get my adult entertainment, but never quitting. AK media travel has kept me away from this community. Miss you guys. Don Vin, appreciate you, man. Thank you for being here. I think uh I think yeah that that you know that is the goal at least for me to hedge against AI is to try to you know continue making authentic content that can resonate with people and that's the best way to keep this going and again I do not mean to be on a rant today about Oaklo or Quantum and you know Oaklo by the way still down it's it's not really getting that recovery like I have I have zero vendetta against those companies I I I do not care if you're in these companies either like I'm not short I don't have puts I'm not scre that I want to see this thing go down so I can make millions of dollars I was like, I just personally really, really, really want to keep this bull market going. And I feel like most of us know the stocks that don't have anything going for them, going to the moon is not the easiest way to keep it going. And so, it's not to be aggressive against any of those stocks. I try not to be super super biased. Being bearish or bullish like that, why would I want to do that? I don't want to isolate people from watching the content if I'm super bearish on a name they like. I'm just saying sometimes you got to call a spade a spade. Like sometimes some of these names just need to take a breather. They don't have to go to zero, but they cannot keep going to the moon. It's going to be really hard for Nvidia to go higher if a lot of these other names are going higher for no reason when Nvidia is putting up the best earnings we've ever seen in history and that's why it's important. Um, Dualingo right there, 324, that's up 3.6. So, Duolingo getting a little bit of love. TFC, that's up. Iran, nice little recovery. I mean, it was down seven, now it's down three. So you do have some juice right there on I ran 5747 on the day. Pound here still flat at 181. Oscar continues to run as well. This one, let's watch the video they put out yesterday because we didn't watch the video. Wow. 6% move on Oscar. They put out a video on their AI. Okay, so this is this is what they introduced yesterday. Hello Menow is Oscar's bold new plan, reimagining menopause care with real talk and reliable resources. Say hello to Z midlife care. Say hi to menopause experts who get it and rewards just for doing healthy things. And don't forget to say what's up to real savings on health care costs because with Hello Menow, more care is covered where it actually counts. And with all of Oscars' great benefits, you and
>> Okay, so that is a new product. That might be why the stock is up more than their OpenAI announcement yesterday.
>> Question.
>> This was the OpenAI announcement
>> about your coverage or health. Meet Oswell, your new AI health and benefits pal. He's friendly. He's smart and he's here for you 24/7. Ask Oswell anything about your plan, med refills, or that weird hip thing you've been ignoring. Oswell keeps your health history and plan details in mind, so his answers are personalized. And he can point you to great doctors and specialists in your Oscar network. He'll even help you come up with questions to ask during your appointment. Oh, and if you need Z virtual care or a quick text visit, he's got you covered with that, too. Oswell is hyped to get to know you, so he can help out even more.
>> Right, Oswell?
>> Okay. Uh it's either the Menopause announcement or the Oslo announcement, but uh Oscar up 6% on the day based on a partnership with OpenAI and essentially creating a personalized chatbot for all your data inside of their proprietary application. You know, the biggest thing that I think we've seen from AI, at least in terms of the use cases, and we've got to see more than this, but I think it's undeniable. The biggest use case we've seen is chat is a chatbot. And I know that chatbot should not be the only use case of AI, but can anyone name anything else besides chat bots? Google right there 250 losing 2.4%. Like it's chat bots across the board, whether it's Canva or what Robin's coming up with Cortex, that's going to be a chatbot for finance. like okay image creator I guess is the next one but like in terms of outside of like something creative something that people are using on a day-to-day basis for productivity it ends up just yeah FSD is a whole different category I'm not I'm not talking about FSD or robotics I'm talking about like the things that we all use on a daily basis as we're navigating our lives I it's these chat bots and like you know maybe that's not the worst thing in the world I think that the next evolution of that is for it to be agentic aka we don't even have to chat with a bot and That's where it gets like really intense in terms of productivity. But so far the biggest use case has been a chatbot that we've seen from AI and hopefully robotics and FSD ends up becoming the ma, you know, the major use case. But, you know, outside of transportation and physical labor, it's a bot, whether it's a medical bot or a lawyer bot, whatever type of bot it is, it is a bot that's generating most of the productivity. Now again, and this is why I think Palenter gets a little bit more of a premium because Paler is not just using a bot. A lot of what they're using is agentic workflows inside of the enterprise. And based on what they showed at AIPcon, there's a lot of different examples of that. But that that's like using the LLM almost as like a foundational element to power something happening versus one of their clients just chatting with an LLM inside of Palenture software to figure out the answer, which which feels like the most mundane version of what the use case could become. So going green 2877 trying to get back to 29. That's up about 28% on the day. Dude, I thought music creation would be a way bigger uh story in AI than it would be. There was a there was a a fake Drake and weekend song that came out two years ago via AI. It was actually a really good song and it was like exploding on TikTok and then you thought you would get more of that, but like it didn't really turn into a big industry like you know most people that go on Spotify don't want to listen to some AI generated nonsense. they want to listen to Taylor Swift or Travis Scott or like you know artists that you have an emotional connection with. So I feel like music creation has not exploded in this AI ecosystem but obviously there are some people that care more about AI. Why is Google down 3%? I don't know. Let me see if there's any headline on Google. It looks like there should be when a Google falls 3% like that. Oh wow. Open AAI to debut a web browser today. Open AAI to debut web browser today at 1:00. Dude, OpenAI has been doing a lot of these live streams. It's like one every other week, bro. It's it's it's they're really trying to prove that they can put out new products into the world. Okay. Okay. So then the question is for Google, you know, how many people are going to stop using Chrome and use Open Eyes browser? I don't know, bro. I've used Chrome for the past 15 years. It's going to be hard to stop using Chrome. It's going to be really freaking hard to stop using it, but I guess we're going to see what they come out with today. There are people who make custom music for their games that they stream. It's actually pretty good. Yeah, there's definitely a use case for the AI music stuff. I just mean like an AI music artist getting 70 million monthly listeners on Spotify. That was kind of what people were afraid about two years ago. That's definitely what Spotify and the record labels were afraid about because how do they make money off that? But that hasn't become a thing, right? That AI musician that people want to listen to more than listen to Justin Bieber. Like no, they'd rather listen to Justin Bieber because it's Justin Bieber. There's like a connection to Justin Bieber. So, I don't know if we really see a ramp up in AI music that, you know, makes us paradically change how we think of music in general. Same thing with movies, right? You know, we've not really seen a real AI movie go viral yet. That might be something in the future that ends up playing out. Yeah, UMG did get mad about the copyright about it, but like at the end of the day, if there was a a vast amount of people creating this type of content, like it would find a way to get distribution even if it wouldn't be allowed on Spotify. And I I just have not seen vi there was one Drake AI song that went viral. And since then, I've not really heard, you know, more of those songs actually coming out into the world. I think the music part hasn't started yet, but Timberland has done it. I have seen Timberland do a lot of these Instagram lives where he's like making these different beats and so you could see uh more excitement at least on the side of producers that are using AI a little bit more. Here's an update on China and what we've got going on based on some of the new stuff they announced this morning. Well Sarah, this meeting is called the fourth plenum and over the next four years uh Xiinping and um other policy makers are going to be mapping out uh the uh the economic priorities for 2026 until 2030. And it probably comes as no surprise to investors that the likely focus is going to be on advanced manufacturing as well as new technologies such as AI, semiconductors, robotics as well as new energy. Now, this is a reassertion of what we already know that the Xiinping administration's primary goal is to turn China into a global uh tech player um and really dominating globally uh these technologies. So in addition to that, of course, uh the leadership wants these technologies and tech innovation to promote the economy. However, in the past, uh few years, I would say uh we've also seen that the Xiinping administration hasn't really been paying as much attention to policies that would promote everything else such as consumption and that um was showing showing up in some of the economic data that we had today. uh the FAI for example contracted uh private investment is down consumption met expectations but these were very low expectations and there is a an expectation and a belief that some of um acknowledgement is going to be had in the 5-year plan of this issue. Uh there's a belief that a policy platform could be in place to try to encourage more household consumption. And uh there's some speculation that this means that the uh that there we could see some uh targets set at a local level for consumption growth. Guys,
>> uh Ununice, there's been some who argue that she has already started removing some stimulus to the economy to let it sort of slowly decelerate going into these tougher discussions. Uh C can you talk about to what level the government is supporting activity? Uh well the government has been supporting some activity. We've seen that over the past um couple of years I would say but uh yeah these have been in in fits and starts and um I I haven't heard that he would be rolling back a stimulus but there's definitely a belief at this point um from many economists that at least for the rest of this year we probably won't see much more stimulus. And part of that is because the Q3 number came in at 4.8%. That was a little bit slower than Q2. And because the overall economic growth target is 5%, people are saying likely the government is going to hold back. And see, look, that GDP number being the lowest in a year and that stimulus starting to come to an end, China cannot mess up any meaningful relationship with the United States. Because if you're not doing stimulus and you're not getting your GDP growth to be at levels it was at last year, which is still pretty good at 4.8% even if it's not at like 6.2%. 2%. Losing the American consumer would be the worst thing uh for the Chinese. So, I don't know. I'm feeling pretty optimistic in South Korea. Trump and and G get a deal done. And if we do, then you know that could be another bullcase going into the end of earnings for the market. Google really down 4% on this OpenAI news of a browser. I mean, I I I I don't see why it is that big of a deal for Google. I mean, yes, theoretically people might stop using Chrome, but OpenAI is gonna have to put out a really good browser today to get people to not care about Google. Look at Bitcoin continuing to make a move. Almost 113, folks. At the same time, gold continues to go down. Maybe you're getting a little bit of juice from gold into digital gold. Maybe Um, Adobe also getting a move, CRM getting a move. So, some of these plays that have not really move, you know, again, going back to the theme of today's show, quality names getting a bid. Adobe up 4%. Salesforce up 5%. Your Oakloss, your D-Waves are down 7%. And look, I I don't love Salesforce and Adobe as long-term investments, but I've said for the past couple week, these they're undervalued. You can't look at their numbers and say they're not undervalued. It's just there might be better opportunities for your capital, especially if they become value traps, just like PayPal is undervalued. PayPal up 1.2%. You just might not want to be in PayPal for the next year. But if I had to pick between a Salesforce getting love and a random quantum name that has shown nothing getting love, I would pick Salesforce every day of the week. just healthier for the market environment for a company doing 40 billion in revenue to get a bit of a boost. So you are seeing potentially a bit more of that rotation. Ah this is a good point by Austin. Interesting that OpenAI didn't build the browser for Microsoft and Fix Edge but instead are making their own Microsoft would have given them distribution. That is a hell of a point. It's a hell. It goes to show that Altman and Adella are not boys, bro. They are not boys. Like, how like why wouldn't they build the Microsoft's distrib distribution is massive. Bing still gets a billion users or a billion visits every month. Google gets 88 billion, but still, you know, it's not like Bing is starting from zero. If you could rebuild Microsoft Bing and brand it in a in a more AI version of what OpenAI is trying to create, that would be a meaningful partnership. However, OpenAI probably thinks that they don't want to partner with a legacy company like Microsoft on search. They want to build their own version of it. And that that's nothing wrong for them to to think like that. But it also goes to show that they have zero intention of like really building something special with Microsoft. They just needed a lot of the cloud computing with Azure back in 2023 and they had to give Microsoft one of the best deals ever to be able to secure that that agreement, but it doesn't seem like they necessarily care of fixing Microsoft's issues. Even Copilot, right? Copilot started using a lot of other models besides OpenAI and Nadella doesn't really care what model you use as long as you're using it through Copilot. um BMR now that ETH is above 4,000 is at 5465. Okay. So, that one coming back to life as well. We need ETH to make a run to 4500 to get Bit Mine closer to 60. So, ET's really got to make that move, but right now it's kind of been stuck around 35 to 4,000. Um, yeah, Amazon really being the the major winner on a on a day like this. Um, Nebius, are we still Amazon right there? 222 Nebius, are we still moving? Nebius 106. All right, up a little bit from 103. Hood still down 1% of the day and then pounder basically flat on the way. The gold is still down. It it bounced a little bit. It was down 6%. Now it's down 4.6. So you have somewhat of a move to the upside, but still down overall on the day. Here's some coverage, I think, on gold that we might be getting here. said, "I do think the sentiment around uh private credit and the implications for regional banks, for example, um tells us a lot about how uncomfortable some market participants are with the duration of this rally. Look, we've got 2023, we've got 2024, continued outperformance in 2025, but a key thing I anchor to when I think about overall risks is how much of this market is being driven by earnings relative to multiples. And two-thirds of the market is being driven by uh earnings. I think when it comes to exposures to some of the private debt, um it is a more it's kind of a smaller investor base there and uh we don't think we're going to see like a this spreading across many banks or many credit funds, but people are going to have to manage the risk.
>> Right. You said you were listening for in the earnings calls hints about productivity and whether or not this tech boom would start to really start to get monetized in the sense. Are you hearing it so far? I know it's early.
>> Yeah. And companies are going to give a couple small examples, but they're going to want like big data, frankly, before they, you know, pound the table and say, "This is going to change the shape of my labor um market or what we're going to do to our workforce." We've already seen pockets of significant productivity growth even within City. Um, my CEO Jane was talking about this last week.
>> The journal did a huge piece.
>> Yeah. And it's really, really important. We're at the beginning stages, I think, of people knowing how to use these tools, leveraging them, and increasing their productivity. Does that lead to a significantly smaller workforce over time? I have I don't know. Um but I think that the shape of our everyday work is going to continue to evolve. I and my team continue to use many different tools and alternative data in ways that we had not in the past. So I'm very excited about the kind of work and investment analysis we can do uh with the AI. I mean, the use cases are exciting and and we heard some from the CEO of KO in the last hour around advertising and sales, making sales processes more efficient and how they're working on it from that that point of view. Kate, the question is just what's priced in by the market here and and is it is it the capex numbers? Is that what's going to continue to fuel the hype and enthusiasm of the market as long as those
>> NASDAQ trying to hold on, but Google really getting wrecked here, bro. It went from 2.3% to 5% down on this open AI news. And as she said right there, right, it's a question of multiple expansion in the midst of earnings. And you know, one of the reasons gold is getting some love is because people think that multiple not like actual multiple, but the broader sentiment around gold should continue to expand. The sentiment around Google and why the multiple is contracting right here is because of this open AI news. And it feel I agree with Batty. It feels like an overreaction. It really does. Google's messing up the S&P as well. Yeah, look at that 5% draw down on Google. There's your uh what is that? 3% draw down on the S&P. I don't know. We saw this happen last time, too. This was like seven months ago when OpenAI announced their plans to create a browser. Google was down like 7%. But, you know, people kind of moved on. They didn't care. Google right here down 4%. Google to 150, Oaklow to 200. Yes. Oh my gosh, dude. That's what's going to happen now that I I I usually don't try to go on a rant on these names. That's what's going to happen now. That my rant was the bottom of Oaklo. Oaklo is going to go to freaking 200 and everyone's going to be like, "All right, Amit, can you rant about another stock so we can buy that shit?" It's exactly what's going to happen, bro. It's exactly how this is going to play out. I'm praising Google, on Oaklo, and Oaklo is going to go to the moon. It's what's going to happen, dude. It's going to happen. Yeah, tens of billions of market cap wiped out on the announcement that OpenAI might have a product and has zero users. Perplexity has released the browser as well. Now, OpenAI has more distribution than Perplexity. But look, here's the other thing about why this OpenAI browser news might not matter that much. A lot of OpenAI's users are on their phones and it's mobile. I mean, like, yes, there's people that obviously use it on desktop, but I don't have the exact stats on this. I would just my gut tells me a lot of people are using the mobile app and a lot of people are young and they're in college and high school and they're using it to do tasks on a daily basis. Ask all these questions. Their behavior pattern is already set with using Chrome as a browser. They might go to Chrome and then click on chatbt.com, but for them to open up a brand new browser that that's a whole different user experience. It's not necessarily easy to get people to switch to something like that unless the product is definitively better. And I guess at 1 p.m. we're going to see what their live stream looks like and how good that announcement is because who knows, maybe it's so much better than Chrome that it blows away expectations. But I feel like it's just going to be a browser that directly links to chatb. That's going to be the gist of it. And as a result, it might not be that exciting.
>> Yeah. Also, do you want to give all your data to OpenAI? I mean, dude, this is a big Look, I usually am not that like nitpicky around people giving up their data because at the end of the day, if we agree to use these products, we're going to be giving up our data. It's the nature of how we operate in in a society that's rooted in technology. However, after Sam Alman said that about new adult verticals on chat GBT, immediately I was just like, do you really want all your search results and all those conversations being used to train these models in OpenAI? Which, by the way, is also going to happen with Grock and Gemini. I get it. But people already have a, you know, a bad perception of Sam Alman and the way he thinks about data. Similar to Zuckerberg with Meta, right? People, a lot of people just don't like Facebook because of the perception of Zucks and data. It makes you wonder how many people actually want to give up valuable search data to a company that could be using it for a lot of different things. Yeah, you gave everyone your birthday. Yes, exactly. So, I don't know. We're going to have to see. But yeah, dude, that quote right there, Alman saying, "We are not the moral police of the world tells you everything." And by the way, I would be one to agree with that frame of reference that a tech company should not act as the moral police of the world. However, in the age of AI, like to to take that type of a stance, I don't know, bro. It's a little tonedeaf in my opinion. It's a little tonedeaf. Even even Figure the the Brett Adcock, he was asked uh with uh with with Mark Beni off at Dreams Force if he if you would use um your robots for military technology. And he was like, "No." He was like, "We don't want to be given robots to the military." He's like, "That's that's not the culture we're trying to build. We're not trying to have robots on the battlefield. We're trying to make robots do your laundry." Right? He just he doesn't want to be associated with that. And there's a lot of ethical implications to think about robots on the battlefield. And whatever side of the aisle you're on on that, it is one of those things that is super polarizing and requires a lot of deep thought. Chalking it up to say we are not the moral police of the world. I mean, I don't know if that's enough of a easy way to approach this this ecosystem. It's very lzair. Maybe AI can't just be that lz fair. Bit mine 55. That's green. ETH trying to break 4,100. 4,64. Bitcoin very close to 113. Very close to 113. All right, let's see if we can get there. Uh, I am probably not going to stream the GPT event. We'll cover it on the close though, but it's going to be a little tough for me to stream it. Dude, how is it 11:30 already? Goodness, the stream went by quick. I didn't even notice that. Ethereum and Bitcoin. Ethereum 4,000. Yeah, that's two hours away, bro. That's a long time away for that stream, but we'll cover it on the close and we'll see if Google tanks even further. Um, dude, is the NBA coming back tonight? Why are you guys saying betting NBA? Is the NBA back tonight? Is the first NBA season game tonight? Oh man, it's back tonight. This is not pre-market, right? This is like a legit game. Or is this pre-market Lakers Warriors? Dude, LeBron can't play, right? Because freaking LeBron has the injury. So, it's gonna be Luca versus Curry. Okay, I'm definitely betting on this. Does Robin Hood unveil the prediction markets for the NBA? Oh, yep. It's already there. Wow, it's already there. 58 cents for the Warriors, 43 cents for the Lakers. Did I say pre-market? Oh, I meant to say preseason.
>> This is how you know we're a junkie. But this is how you know if the stock market falls 20%. There will be a select few of us that come back every day. As sad as it will be to see the red every day because we are freaking junkies. We are junkies. Yeah, I'm definitely betting on that, bro. I I actually like the NBA and I I think I know a little bit more about it than football. So, I think I gotta go Warriors, bro. I think I gotta go Warriors. Got to go Warriors today. Everything is a market to admit. Exactly. Kraken Robotics up on the day. All right. So, Kraken again, these guys trade OTC. They got a nice 14% move. The thesis on Kraken for those that haven't heard of it and I've done not done a major deep dive but essentially they are one of the major suppliers for and especially for their underwater machines and so a lot of people think that hey if I can buy Kraken given they have such tight relationships with Andro which which is correct there's not that many companies that have direct vendor distributor relationships with Android that is my proxy of owning Andro I don't know how legit that argument is I can understand people's uh eagerness to think that Kraken is your proxy. I don't know enough about the company to be super excited about like their financials or anything, but that has been a majority of the reason that I've seen people get excited about the name. And so it is OTC. You can't buy it easily. You're going to have to go through I think on Schwab and Fidelity they allow OTCs. Robin Hood Weeble is not that easy to get OTC stocks. Now, if this stock can make it onto the NASDAQ on like a exchange that has massive distribution, I think that's when it can really start to make a move because you're going to get a lot of people that in general just want something as an Android proxy and if they can easily buy it, they probably would buy it. But as of now, it is still uh still OTC. Yeah, you likely could buy it on Schwab because they they offer OTC names. Silver and gold still down while Bitcoin making its move 112.8. Hey folks, the last 10 days of October, if we see a gold dump and a Bitcoin pump, that would be fascinating because it would keep the October thesis alive for freaking Bitcoin. OTC is over the counter. That's the term for it. So basically, it's not on all the regulated exchanges. So there's a lot of stocks on OTC you should stay away from. They're like p pink sheet penny stocks, but there also are some really good companies that just haven't made their way to the regulated exchanges. But if gold is down 5% and Bitcoin's up 5% to end out the month, Bitcoin gets to stay green for October and maybe sets itself up really well for November. Also, last couple days of October, we get that rate cut. We get uh we get we get October 29th, we're going to get 25 pips of a cut. Theoretically, that should be way more bullish Bitcoin than regular gold. Again, gold is a hedge against monetary policy. Bitcoin should be leaning into monetary policy. But we're going to have to see if we end up getting that rate cut as well. It's called October because out of the last 10 October, nine of them have been green and very green by that matter for Bitcoin. Like we're talking about 17% months, 10% months, 25% months. So, still got 10 days left. Maybe that ends up playing out. S&P 500 right there 67195. Google still down 4% on this opening ideas. Oh yeah, the other headline that could be helping Bitcoin today is this freaking this Fed meeting, right? We talked about that. Yeah, that's live right now. We're not going to stream it, but if anyone wants to watch it, I'll put the link in the chat. It's on the Fed's YouTube channel. They're having an entire conference today around crypto banking. That could also be another reason why Bitcoin and ETH are moving. Um, Cointelegraph reporting the Federal Reserve is studying a new payment account model that would give fintech and crypto firms limited access to Fed payment rails without full banking privileges. Wow. That would be giving some of the banking privileges, not all of them, but some of them, some of the ecosystem that the banks have access to to these crypto firms. That's actually pretty damn bullish. We don't have the full details on what that would look like, but that that would be opening up a lot more space for innovation and quite frankly, to be honest, liquidity for these crypto companies that get access to the payment infrastructure of the Fed. Yeah. That could be the reason Bitcoin. Yeah, there you go. 113.1. Now it's moving 107 to 113. $6,000 candle in two hours. Is that bearish Galileo? I would hope not. Dude, if not can put up some good Galileo results next week, which I don't expect, but if he does, Sofi could really have some fun. But that might be the 2026 story for Q1 instead. All right, cool. So, there you go. Bitcoin, look, I'm losing my voice. I've been talking for three hours. Bitcoin 113, Ethereum 4,000, S&P holding flat on the day, but still 671. Not too bad. Everything else relatively red outside of Amazon. That's up 2.5%. And we'll be back on the market close. So, on the close, we will be reviewing this OpenAI Google browser. I'll probably tweet about it in a couple hours. So, if you're following me on Twitter, you will uh you'll get the update there. Um, we'll talk about Netflix earnings. That's a big one. So, we'll do that. And then we'll talk about uh technical Tuesday. So, we have Tech Tuesday, Netflix, and this OpenAI stuff. And we'll see the impact it has ultimately on Google. Fear and greed. We were at 30 on fear. We were at extreme fear on Friday. We're at 30 on fear. So, you're seeing fear and greed start to get a little bit more normalized, which is not too bad. Oh, wait. We got to do the Netflix pump or dump pull. Okay, last thing before I leave, then we'll do word of the day. Netflix pump or dump. Let's see what you guys say right now versus right before. Last time we all thought it was going to pump and it dumped by like 5%. So, I don't know if we're going to get the same results, but we got to see. We got to see how this plays out. Siege, thank you for the tomato super chat. Tell your father I said that there is no way AI could ever replace your insight. Thank you for everything you do. Siege, deeply, deeply appreciate you. Thank you for being here. And uh yeah, hopefully, you know, more people continue to uh enjoy the authenticity of the content and the mispronunciation of the content as well. And look, I'm not going to be perfect. AI probably will be perfect. I'll probably get a bunch of things wrong in the course of my analysis after you do this for a long time. But I think that that also shows you're a human. If everything's perfect via AI, it's not as easy to consume at the end of the day. So, I appreciate you being here as well. Manohar, thank you for the $50 super chat. Overall, data says SoFi Q3 will post a 900 million to 1 billion in revenue. If SoFi actually hits 1 billion, I want to hear you scream the same way you did when pounder crossed that mark. If they do hit 1 billion in Q3, do you see SoFi heading towards 40? by end of year. Look, if they hit 1 billion, that would be really bullish. Obviously, I don't have a massive SoFi position like I did when Hood and Paler hit a billion. So, it's a little bit different emotionally, but I will be very excited for you guys that are into SoFi because I know retail is very, very heavy. I mean, Josh was on the channel yesterday. He has 300,000 shares of this thing. So, it is a massive retail name. Um, I think they can hit a billion based on Tanner's videos. I think it's very possible. He's been pretty bullish about the member growth. If they hit a billion, do I see $40 by end of year? I don't know if the billion is the reason they would get to 40 by end of year. I think the rate cuts and potential 40% growth. Remember they did 44% last quarter. That could be why they hit 40 by end of year. A billion in and of itself. I don't know if that's like the only reason. But if they can get up the growth and you know the real way they hit 40 bucks is if that operating leverage starts to get higher. I mean that's one of the things about pounder hood that has really got the street excited. Their operating margins are you know 40 to 50%. So is I think at like 14 15% or something. that gets up anywhere near 20%. I think that's what gets the street really excited, which means they would just have a massive beat on EPS as well. All right, cool. That's what we got. Thank everybody for being here. Let's do word of the day and then uh we'll check out the pre-market uh tonight for the NBA season and we'll see if the uh Warriors can beat the Lakers and what happens from there. I'm just kidding. I know it's a preseason, but it is funny that it said pre-market. Word of the day ka ka
>> qua qua interjection indeed. Qua is an interjection used to express surprise or contempt essentially meaning indeed. I've never heard of this word before. I've never heard of this word before. All right. If anyone wants to show their uh affirmation with something that is being said, they can say quota. Quo is in quote. Yeah, I guess that's this is a useless word. Some of these words are weird. Some of these words are weird. We're not going to get the subscriber count for Netflix. Unfortunately, they don't disclose that anymore. So, I mean, we're going to have to see their overall revenue growth, but we will not be getting any subscriber numbers. 54% of you say pump on Netflix. 54% of you guys say pump. I'm going with pump as well. I think we're getting into holiday season. I think it'll be good guidance. I don't really think it dumps as the S&P continues to do well. They would have to have a really crappy earnings. It is priced for perfection, though. Netflix does trade at a multiple that's higher than Nvidia and it's up 40% this year. So, they're going to have to give us good earnings, but if they if they do, maybe we get a pump. All right, that's what we got. Thank everybody for being here. Appreciate it. Again, uh did not mean to trigger people with the rant I went on today about some of these unprofitable companies going to the moon. If you own these names, I hope you make a lot of money them. I just think for the health of the market, it's prudent for a lot of these names to not necessarily keep going to the moon. They don't have to go to zero, but they can't keep going to the moon. It's just very hard for us to keep up this bull run. And so seeing the S&P go green and a lot of these names stay flat, I don't think that's the worst thing in the world and hopefully can continue to keep this going for a long time. All right, that's it. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the market close. We got the opening eye stuff, we got the Netflix stuff, we got technical Tuesday, and then we got Tesla tomorrow. And so we'll do a preview on Tesla going into the end of the day as well. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys on the market close. Buy one.