Hello my friends. Today is September 20th and this is Markets Weekly. So this past week was an absolutely ebulent week in markets. We had all-time highs in all the major indexes and honestly it seems like it's going almost parabolic. I think I believe and I think most people do that this is obviously a bubble. That being said, doesn't mean it can't go higher. If you're bullish, you can say that, you know, we're in the early innings of the bubble. Maybe it can still double or triple. And if you're bearish, you'll say that we are in the later stages of the bubble, so things could unravel. Now, it seems like the approximate cause of uh the ebulent asset prices has to do with the Fed. The Fed is cutting, telling you that it's probably going to cut two more times this year. And you know, maybe you can say that the economy is going to reacelerate. Things are going well. Got to buy stocks. However, though, if you look at the market pricing uh after the Fed meeting, you'll notice that interest rates along the curve are higher, right? got the 10-year at 4 uh 1% even the 2-year higher by several basis points. That's telling you that the mark the bidding actually wasn't doubbish. It was hawkish. But did telegraph they were cutting uh but they're cutting less than the market is projecting. So interest rates rose throughout the curve and in line with that the dollar also strengthened notably all things that you would see in a hawkish Fed meeting. And if you look at the meeting that day, you'll notice that stocks did sell off uh almost 1% and then I think those people who are maybe probably old school macro guys uh then got totally run over uh by the apes and you know we we've been going up ever since. And how far we go I guess we'll find out in the coming weeks. One other thing to note of course is that last week was a quarterly options expiry probably the largest ever. And at the end of the month, we also have the big JP Morgan trade that everyone talks about. So there is uh the option market will have some meaningful impact on prices this past week and uh this coming week as well. So uh we'll see how that affects things. So again, a lot of things happening underneath the surface. Um today, let's talk about two things. First off, let's talk about the pretty interesting shift by the Bank of Japan and that it's unwinding its equity its equity purchases. And secondly, let's talk about the president's brand new immigration policy where he's charging a hefty fee for H-1Bs uh but basically in line with what he's been doing throughout his uh tenure as his second tenure as president. All right, starting with the Bank of Japan. So just to level set a little bit although throughout most of the developed world banks central banks have been cutting rates in the US and Canada and the UK and uh in Europe and so forth because inflation has come down the economy has been slowing in Japan. Actually the Bank of Japan is still in hiking mode. That is because inflation is still a big problem in Japan. Um, inflation has been above the Bank of Japan's targets for for some time. And as Governor Weda mentioned at his speech at Jackson Hole, he thinks that an aging population is inflationary. So this higher inflation is going to be a secular problem that Japan is going to face. At the Bank of Japan meeting the past week, there was no rate hike, but he did get a couple descents. So the market is widely expecting the Bank of Japan to hike uh very soon. And that's can you can see that in the price as well. Some one other thing that they did was that was very interesting is that they began to unwind their purchase of stocks. So as we all know Japan suffered from disinflation deflation for many decades. And so the bank of Japan began many was many aggressive experiments to try to you know boost inflation. Uh they bought a whole bunch of uh JGBs even rolled out yield curve control. Interestingly, it was not to keep yields lower. It was because the yields were too low and they had to roll out yield control to keep yields higher. So, they did all this interesting stuff. Didn't seem to work. And so, they ended up buying stocks trying to have maybe a wealth effect. This started about a decade ago. And uh in the beginning, it was actually quite aggressive. And so, when the Bank of Japan began buying stocks, stock market there roared, but it didn't last. The way they did this is they bought ETFs. So they didn't want to be seen as fair being one company or another. So they just bought ETFs, basket of stocks uh to try to be more equitable. Now if you look at their holdings of stocks right now, it's almost half a trillion US. So they hold a ton of the Japanese stock market. At their meeting, they telegraph that they're going to start unwinding their purchases. Um let's see, by how much? Uh, looks like it's uh, who get off the chart here. About 600 billion uh, yen, Japanese yen a year. Sounds like a lot, but when you convert it to dollars, it's about 6 billion a year. Uh, when it comes to ETFs and um, 5.5 billion a year in resale, that's a trivial amount. So if you own let's say you know half a trillion dollars worth of stocks and you're only selling off let's say 6 billion a year it's going to take you you know almost a hundred years for you to unwind um all your stock purchases. So this is at the end of the day a very trivial amount that they are unwinding. However if you look at their stock market though it was impacted by this stock market didn't like this and it would down on the news. This is just again to show you that stock prices in the stock market largely psychological even though the Bank of Japan is only trivially unwinding their purchases. Uh this is impacting investor psychology. But what's more interesting though is if you look at the 10-year JGB yield. Now the prospect of further hikes is sending the 10-year JGB yield to multi-deade highs. Now as we know the bond market is internationally collected. So if yields in Japan continue to rise, that's going to exert upward pressure on yields globally. One other thing to note is that Japanese investors are huge huge global investors. They own a whole bunch of dollar assets, whole bunch of euro assets and so forth. So there's a line of thinking that if yields in Japan become more attractive, you know, maybe they don't have to go so far into the world to get attractive investments. Maybe they can sell some of their dollar investments, some of their euro investments, repatriate them, and just, you know, get a good yield from JGBs. Now, to be clear, that doesn't seem to be happening so far, but eventually that could happen. After all, the Bank of Japan is on a hiking cycle, and with their demographics, maybe they'll continue to hike. So that could lead to a repatriation strengthening of the yen uh which uh could be at the expense of foreign assets. But you know this is a slow process. We'll see how that unfolds going forward. Now the second thing I want to talk about is the very interesting immigration policy the president unveiled on Friday. So in the US if you are a company you want to hire a foreign worker. You give them what's called an H-1B visa. And H1B visas are pretty common. There are several hundred thousand of them. To get an H-1B visa, there's a lottery process, but in terms of fees, it's not super expensive. It's a few thousand when it comes to government fees and lawyer fees. A president announced that it wants to raise the government fee uh to 100,000, which is of course a huge huge increase, but this is in line with what the president has been doing his entire year, right? So the president says that he wants you to buy products made in America, stimulate American production. So he puts a big tariff on imports. Now that tariff again not necessarily borne by the foreign exporter, but at the end of the day is going to make domestic products more attractive relative to foreign products. In that sense, he is supporting domestic production. That's his goal, right? Make America great again. Now, this H-1B visa pro process is the exact same thing but on labor. So, he's basically putting a tax on foreign labor to make it more attractive to hire American workers. Now, if you look at who is getting all these H-1B visas, you'll see that they're largely tech companies. An interesting stat that I read was that 75% of H-1B visa holders are born in India. So it's largely a program to import Indians into the US to work in IT roles. Now whether or not this is good or bad really depends on who you ask. So people like Elon and many other tech CEOs who say that H1Bs are really important. They help the US stay in front of the technological uh competition and you know we're we're having all these smart people who work for us. That's really good. If you ask American workers, and you can get a lot of feedback from this from in the forums and so forth, they'll tell you that H-1Bs are just a way for tech companies to import cheap foreign labor so they don't have to pay higher wages to American workers. Now, uh what technically happens is is that if you are a H-1B employee in the US, you're kind of beholden to your employer because you can't really leave easily. And so that gives your employer a lot of power. Whereas if you were an American worker, you know, you don't don't like what's happening, you can go to another company. And so, uh, the the thinking is that what the American workers would say is that often times the H-1B is just, uh, a way to to keep wages low for the tech companies. So I think what what I think what the president is doing here is he's trying to strike a balance where if he raised the fee to 100,000 then you know the only way that we have H1Bs is if the tech companies are paying for people who are truly truly exceptional people who are you know geniuses brewing people who are going to come and just generate a lot of benefits for them. Of course tech companies are flushed with cash $100,000 fee is nothing. So, the very best people will continue to come to the United States through the H-1B program. However, though, if you are just a, you know, a general entry level tech employee, uh they're they're not going to be doing that anymore. And those jobs instead will go to American employees. And if you look at the employment stats for newly graduated computer science people in the US, you'll note that the unemployment rate has gone up. And so many many people American uh computer science graduates are having trouble finding new jobs. So this in a sense would incentivize tech companies to hire more of them. So I think this is actually something that is pretty smart. It's basically monetizing problem like he's done uh let's say for for Nvidia for example. Nvidia wants to sell chips to the to China. president not sure about this but hey why don't you just split some revenue to us so that at least the public gets some benefit so again I think this will have some impacts basically attacks on uh people who import a lot of foreign labor so not too good for the big tech companies but uh definitely good for American employees which I think was the president's entire platform now in addition to this there's also a very interesting new uh golden visa program again this was initially floated out at a price point of about 5 million. I'm guessing 5 million was just too rich for most people. Now it's at 1 million. So basically, if you pay $1 million, you can come and uh have a green card in the United States. So I actually think this is something that is a pretty good idea. So throughout the world, globally, golden visa programs are pretty common. Some very successful ones are I would say in Portugal and previously in Malta where if you just pay some money say go buy a house maybe buy some stocks in Portugal or some other places uh you can have EU citizenship very attractive for many expats especially let's say wealthy Americans would like to have access or be able to live in the EU now globally of course a lot of rich people everywhere in the world say in China in the Middle East and so forth and they're looking for other residences maybe just the plan B. Maybe they just want to live in another country. For them, money is not a problem and so they're happy to pay a little bit of money. Now, usually though, to be clear, golden visa countries are countries that are not doing well financially and they just want to have an extra some extra revenue. So, it's very uncommon for a wealthy country like the United States to have something like this. But just $1 million to have access to to be able to live in the United States, have access to to the market. So that I think that's something that many rich people will gladly pay. Honestly, it's not that much money. One thing that's not good about this though is that for many other Golden Visa programs, it's a investment. So, you know, you get some return or at least your money back after some years. Here, it's seems to be just a donation. So, you're actually paying a million dollar fee or 2 million if you're a company sponsoring someone to um to have a to have residency in the United States. So, it is a hefty fee. However, there's a lot of rich people in the world, I think, especially people who, you know, maybe they made their money in illegitimate means and they they want to be able to at least let their family live in a country safe from uh from investigation. I think that it's quite attractive. So, I'm pretty sure this will generate some revenue. All right. So, that's super interesting. Let's see how this continues to evolve. Also, not talking about it this time, but the the president also suggests some new industrial policy. They're taking that $550 billion investment fund, which appears to be real uh that Japan is putting up trying to invest in more factories or maybe uh some kind of support for American manufacturing. So, there's definitely some new developments in industrial policy that we'll hear more of going forward. All right, so that's all I've prepared. Thanks so much for tuning in. Talk to you guys next week.