Friends, we're back and it's time for book club. [music] Hello and welcome to the book review from the New York Times. I'm MJ [music] Franklin. I'm an editor here at the New York Times book review and the host of the book review book club. And today I'm with Jennifer Salai, our non-fiction book [music] critic here at the New York Times. Hi, Jen. Thank you for joining us.
>> Thanks so much for having me. And we're also with Sadie Stein, a fellow editor here at the book review and a frequent book clubber.
>> I'm delighted to be here for this one.
>> Thank you for joining us. And this week we are talking about Patrick Rat and Keith's latest book, London Falling. This book club, this conversation is an episode of firsts. It is our first non-fiction book club pick so far in the book review book club's history. It is also Jen, it's your first book club. You've been on the podcast before, but you This is the first time you're on the book club.
>> That's true.
>> How are you feeling?
>> I'm feeling excited.
>> That's the right answer.
>> I'm nervous. [laughter]
>> Feel excited. Yes. Don't feel nervous. This is going to be great.
>> Okay.
>> I have been very excited in turn to to be here for your first book club episode and and feel honored, frankly.
>> Thank you.
>> It's a conversation amongst friends and we're going to talk about this great dishy book. But before we do that, I have my typical admin notes. First, there will be spoilers in this episode. However, to keep this conversation accessible to all, we're splitting it up. The first half will be spoiler light. We try to keep things spoilerfree, but this is a mystery. Every element of this book feels like some type of revelation, but we will save the big conclusions, the big revelations until the second half, which will be spoilerfilled. So, choose your own adventure based on what you want to know. So, that is note number one. Note number two, at the end of the episode, we will reveal our September book. So, stay with us to find out what we're reading next. And without further ado, let's get started. Usually, I like to start with a plot setup, a plot synopsis, but I want to start somewhere else. I want to start with Patrick Roden Keef, the man, the myth, the author. Jen, you have reviewed the past three books that Patrick Roden Keefe has written. I'm putting you in the hot spot. You're new to the book club, but first question over to you. Can you tell us who is Patrick Rodenkeef?
>> Patrick Ratenkeefe is a staff writer for The New Yorker. But in addition to that, he's also the author of a number of non-fiction books. most recently Empire of Pain which is a book about the Sackler family which is the family behind Purdue Pharma which manufactured Oxycontton and of course as we know now played quite a role in the opioid epidemic. The way you just recounted that I think also gets at some of the approach of Patrick Rod and Keith. said it's about the Sackler family which is about blah blah blah blah which is and like there's a way that Patrick Browning Keefe rabbit holes correct
>> well that's exactly it you could say that the book is about the Sackler family and that's it but really it's about this bigger picture this sort of intricate system this network all of this stuff coming together in the story of this one family and he does that with his other books as well there's another book say nothing which I've also reviewed, which is at the heart of it. There's the story of a young mother who was kidnapped in front of her family in the 1970s in Belfast, but it's also the story of the troubles in Northern Ireland. So, it's the story of what happened to this woman, but also the story of the history of this place, the political history, a very fraught time, but also bringing it up to the present day and connecting it to what happened now. Yeah, it makes perfect sense that this should be the first non-fiction pick in what has so far been a fictiononly book club because Patrick Raden Keef is such a consmate storyteller and this is narrative non-fiction always at its propulsive best.
>> Sadi Jen has reviewed the past three books. How familiar with Patrick Rod and Keith are you?
>> I read and loved all of those books and I've long been a fan of his work in the New Yorker. If you see Patrick Rod and Keef spyline, you know it's going to be something you want to savor. It's an event. He's his pieces often give birth to the books. In fact, this one started as a wonderful piece
>> which I highly recommend you read whether or not you you've read the full book already.
>> I think I'm with you. I have read some but not all of his books. I've read Say Nothing, Empire of Pain, and I actually profiled him for the times when Empire of Pain came out. And then I've read this. I'm familiar with his journalism in the New Yorker, but I haven't read everything. I haven't read The Snake Head, for instance, which I really want to get around to because I know people on the desk love it. Jima, who's frequently on this podcast, talks about that's how that's one of her favorites. So, I'm not quite a Patrick Roden Keefe completionist, but I'm close. So, this is past work. That's Patrick Rod and Keefe. I want to dive into specifically this new book London Falling. Let's set the table. Can someone tell us what is this book London Falling about?
>> So, this is a story basically of the death of one British teenager, Zach Breettler, his family's investigation into the death and learning about the underworld in which he'd embroiled himself and the identities he had invented for himself. It's also a larger story of a city which is being taken over by new wealth and the oligarch class.
>> And that's a good point. But one thing I do want to add is you mention the identities he constructed in this death. I want to tease some of the details. The book starts off with this key mystery. Even before the death, we have this kid Zack Breler. He's 19. He disappears. His family is worried. A few days later, his body shows up in the temps. A few days after that, these men show up and they're like, "So sorry, he was suicidal." His family doesn't quite believe that and they're like, "That doesn't check up with what we knew of Zach." And then it comes out that Zach had been posing as the son of a Russian oligarch. So all these like odd things are happening in the very setup and then Patrick Crowen Keefe takes it from there.
>> Yes. As you say, he rabbit holes in the best possible way because quickly Zach's parents learned that he had been passing himself off as the son of an olgarch in his dealings with the outside world. He had this complete secret life they knew nothing about. And a lot of the book is about our learning as the parents do about this this double identity. One of the things that I was really struck by too is even before we really get to the parents, the prologue begins with the view from the camera on the MI6 building that captures the scene of Zack Breler jumping from this fifth floor apartment in this luxury condo. And so right away we're brought in from the outside and then we get closer and closer and closer. And I think Keas is really skillful at doing that, telling these super intricate stories and building this world. For me, I had this strange visual metaphor. Bear with me. Do you know when you're watching the start of a Disney movie and they're showing like that title card and there's like a flying star that like sweeps through this kingdom and finally lands in the castle. I feel like that is how Patrick Rod and Keith's narrative eye his perspective play is because you're right. You don't start with Zach. You start with the MI6 camera. Then you get the temps. Then you get the history of London. Then you get the idea of wealth which brings you back to this luxury tower. And then you see that Zach has jumped off. That's the prologue. Then you get the chapter 1, the start of that. And you don't get what was happening immediately. You flash back to Zach's birth. Like there's a way that Patrick Rod and Keith, even in the setup, even in the first few pages, is already letting you know we are in for a ride with his storytelling. Does that sound right? Does that sound accurate? Absolutely. That was my metaphor.
>> No, I I like that metaphor. you you give him kind of a godlike almost [laughter] power in this in this scenario. But it's true. That's what he does. It's it's a very masterful guiding hand because he he's such a master of this story.
>> So this leads me to ask, how did you feel about London falling? This is our vibe check. I want to know broadly speaking, thumbs up, thumbs down. Did you love it? Feel mixed? Hate it? Where do you land? I want to hear from Jen because you were technically the reviewer on this.
>> I really liked it. I don't know if I would say I loved it. Keith is an incredibly gifted writer, a gifted reporter, storyteller. I should say in addition to that in terms of his reporting, it's not just that he's gifted. He's really diligent, assiduous. He talks to everybody. He gets his hands on so many documents and different kinds of material so he can really reconstruct what he thinks happened. I think there was something about this story that first of all it's just expertly constructed. Mhm.
>> And so I think Satie, exactly what you said where you read the story and you just you have this constant sense that even if you don't know exactly where it's going, there's nothing about it that feels extraneous. Even though at some point we do get whole chapters where I'm reading along and I'm like, "Oh, wow. This is really riveting." And then at the end of it I'm like, "I'm not sure if I needed it." But
>> it was really well done. And then at the end of it, again, I thought he handled the material very well. But I think for me, maybe Say Nothing, I was really taken by in terms of just the scope of the story.
>> So to clarify, to drill down a little bit more, you said you really liked it, didn't love it, but you just said like only positive things. What was it that prevented you from [laughter]
>> Exactly. So, I have to say, I mean, I just think that Keith is such an excellent writer that even if it's not my favorite book of his that I've read, it's still better than a lot of other books. All of us here have written about books and you have to write about books that you really like, books that you really love, etc. when you really really love something, I think there's an element where even if it's part of your job that you want to articulate what it is that really speaks to you. I think with this book again, I just felt like I was in the hands of somebody who knew exactly what he was doing, but there was something I think because it was also like all of his books, this is a family story, but the the Brelers being a contemporary family, a family that this is the worst thing that's ever happened to them,
>> and they opened up to him and they're trying to sort of explain how they saw it from their perspective. So, we really follow them through their perspective in this book, but there is something about Zach, and maybe this is inevitable, but there's just something that just seems out of reach. We just won't know. And I guess that's maybe part of the story, right? But there was something about that that I don't know. I felt like there was another dimension to this that I wanted and I wasn't getting. I think that you're you're hitting on something which is that some of my cons I won't even call them concerns. Some of the things I wanted more of in the book are largely because I wanted to see Patrick Rad and Keith exploring things because he's such a good reporter and a good writer and I wanted to hear him talk more about the British class system. I wanted to hear him talk more about the expectations of a basically secular London Jewish family which is a very particular identity. I wanted to know a little bit more about this rabbi grandfather. You want because he is so good to hear more and and so when he focuses on other things, it's a very deliberate authoral choice of course, but it can be frustrating.
>> So Satie, I wanted to just ask you directly though based off what you just said, like you were talking about some of the things that you wanted a little bit more of. I want to ask you directly, how did you feel about this book? Thumbs up, thumbs down, feel mixed, loved it, hate it. Where did you land? Definitely a thumbs up and I not only would but have recommended this book to a lot of people, especially people in my life like my dad who don't necessarily read fiction, but who of course find it gripping. Um,
>> can I interrupt with two follow-up questions? First, you mentioned that this is a book you recommend to people who don't really read fiction. Is that to say this is generally a go-to non-fiction recommendation this year? that this is for people who don't typically read fiction but who like stories or are you saying something more nuanced about how this book appeals to readers?
>> Yeah, I think so much of what I love tends to be fiction that I always love to have a great piece of narrative non-fiction to recommend to the non-fiction readers in my life. But the great thing about Patrick Rod and Keefe is that he his work is lyrical enough and it is so well structured that I think it can appeal to both fiction and non-fiction lovers.
>> Okay. And you're kind of answering a little bit what my follow-up question was going to be, which is what is it about this book about Patrick Roden Keefe that makes this such a go-to non-fiction recommendation?
>> Well, he's a reporter first and foremost. He's a journalist and he doesn't indulge in whimsy, although he certainly uses the the writer's artistry to tell his stories. And [snorts] I I felt like the there were subjects there's enough in here. This is both the strength and the weakness that there's almost something for everyone, but there's almost a little too much and yet not enough. Now, I'm holding Keef to a really high standard because Say Nothing I is a book I really love. The piece that started this book I I loved too and I think I had very high expectations for the book and it didn't quite meet them. That said, it's great.
>> I want to try to bring two things in conversation which is your feelings about the book. A lot's going on and sometimes not enough with something that Jen said. You mentioned this in your review and I think you were alluding to it with your setup which is does it feel like he's holding anything back? Does it feel like he's not I think at one point Jen off Mike you said not going there. Can you can you tell me a little bit more about that? as he explains, I think it's at the end of the book or toward the end of the book that he was on the set of the miniseries adaptation of Say Nothing when he was introduced by the director to a guy who said that I have a story for you that this this man had some friends who went through this horrible tragedy with their son and that it was still mysterious what had actually happened to the son. And so the Brelers and Keith spent a lot of time together. He really got them to open up to talk to him. I believe I don't know if he mentions this in the book or if he mentioned this when he went on the Times Book Review podcast, but Matthew I think actually even had recorded conversations on his iPhone because he's a very analytical guy and wanted to remember these conversations that they were having in the wake of what happened to their son. And he I think the way he came to the story is he had the story entrusted to him. this the most horrible thing that happened to this family. And that's a totally legitimate, I should say, legitimate way to get a story. And I think Keefe is very responsible. He handles all of this really well. At the same time, there is something there's like a certain dimension that I felt was missing. And I I feel like Satie when you said that thing about recommending this book to people in your life who love books but maybe only non-fiction books who don't necessarily read fiction. There was something about that that really resonated with me where yeah there there was there was a dimension to this book and I mean to a certain extent Keef can't do everything in one book. I mean the book itself is already filled with lots of incident many characters lots of sort of moral quanderies so to a certain extent how far how much further could you go with it but there was something that I felt like it it wasn't quite meeting the level of what I experienced when I read say nothing for example
>> I agree and I think he's American I'm an American myself one of the things that's been great about this book is the sheer number of conversations it has spawned with with everyone who reads it because first of all it's a book that people finish once they start it which is very gratifying
>> so you can have really good conversations about it
>> and I was talking with or texting with with a British friend and he he was really saying that he didn't feel that Keith grappled sufficiently with the British class system or particularly what it is to be a British Jew from this North London Millia. [snorts] I can't speak to that, but I did know that those were things I that that there was a lot more of. Obviously, he can't you can't talk about anything British without getting into the class system, without getting into colonialism, and he touches on it, but how how deep can you go in a book like this by an American basically for an American audience?
>> You're saying how deep can you go, but then also how many things can you juggle at once? This is already such a discursive book. were bouncing all over the place. At what point does it tip into too much? I think that everyone will probably have a different opinion and he certainly seemed to have an opinion as he was constructing this book. You can tell he's very deliberate about how he places certain elements, how he jumps into certain themes or ideas or backstory. And so,
>> but he certainly does withhold judgment of Zach, I would say, on a moral level
>> and of his parents and of their parenting, which I think is absolutely appropriate. But we haven't heard MG. What do you think of this book? Two thumbs up.
>> I give it two thumbs up. I really, really loved this book quite a lot. I think I'm predisposed to loving it because I'm just a Patrick Raten key fan. And you both have mentioned Say Nothing. I love that book. and Say Nothing actually is a book that opened up a world of non-fiction to me. Growing up, I feel like I was so solidly a fiction reader. And then I started reading things like essays and memoirs, but there was a a type of narrative non-fiction, a type of history, a type of biography. Like there's a realm of non-fiction that I didn't typically read. And then
>> So this is very personal for you, this choice.
>> Exactly. Exactly. When Say Nothing came out, I had a friend who recommended it to me and they were like, "It's this really great history of the troubles told through a few key people." And I remember thinking, "That's not for me. No thank you." And this friend was like, "No, you have to read it." And I did. And it was one of those like mind exploding. I was like, I didn't know that a history could be like this. I didn't know that non-fiction could read this much like fiction. I had for whatever reason just had totally separated them in my mind and it created this excitement for non-fiction and it opened my brain. So I have been predisposed to liking Patrick Rod and Keith's books because that moment was so transformative. That said, pivoting to this book, this is a different type of story. It's a smaller scale. it while it does do that thing that Patrick Roden Keith frequently does which is focus on a family and then jump all over the place. He's not tackling a big sweeping topic like the troubles or the opioid crisis, he at the core is starting with one family, one death, one mystery,
>> but you can tell that he kind of wants to tackle bigger issues in this book. At least that's the sense that I got that he has the story of this family, but he really uses it to tell the story of what happened to London, to Britain. and and he is so good at that that I like I I always think of him as like an architect
>> of these stories that he he pieces them together in such a way that I mean they're just so well constructed which I think is really incredibly hard to do.
>> I love that architect metaphor. One metaphor that doesn't totally work but that was also in my mind was like I felt like he was like a painter. Have you ever seen like a painter mix colors? Like an oil painter. He's like, "Okay, here's the base." And I to paint the picture that I want to get the color I want. I need to add in a little more fuchsia. I need to add in a little blank. And you as they're mixing, you can see how the color develops. I feel like he did that here with this book. He's like, I want to tell the story of the Butlers. He does want to tackle London history. He does want to tackle like crime and like South Asian migration patterns and like all of this stuff, but it never feels like he wants a book about that. He's like, "Oh, I want to tell the story of the butlers and what happened to their son and to get that color just right. I need to bring in this color at this time." I feel like he's very savvy in how he brings things together. And that's what I really really loved about this. The incident that we are following, the inciting death is fascinating, but he is so deliberate and meticulous and savvy about how he gets us to the answers he eventually gets us to in a way that is entertaining, that is informative, that's unexpected, and I thought that it that's tough to do. It demonstrates so much skill.
>> Yeah. And can we also say beautifully edited? beautifully.
>> I mean, just on a professional level, I mean, all the flowers because [snorts] it is it is not easy to put these stories together. I know he's brilliant, but I'm sorry. I keep picturing Bob Ross when you talk about the mixing of colors now. I can't get it out of my head, [laughter] which is I'm kind of picturing him doing the temps and [laughter] happy little clouds. But but yeah, I think a couple of things that bothered me actually were there's a point without giving away too much where he does kind of pan out and gets into the lives of these other guys with whom Zach has become involved and because we have gotten to know the Brelers so well. I I didn't find the level of focus satisfying. We know just enough and not not quite enough about them but a little too much. I felt when he started getting into kind of the litany of crimes that various characters have committed in the middle and their resolutions and their times in jail, there was a certain sameness to to it, which did that work for Do you know what I'm talking about?
>> Yeah, I kind of disagree. I liked that part. I hear what you're saying about how the portraits of the criminals were not as robust as the portraits of the Brelers, but like how could they be when we had one group of sources who would talk and one group of sources who wouldn't or who would talk but with like heavy heavy constraints. That said, I was still fascinated by the portraits of the criminals and I think they added something to the narrative. They did something really interesting to the storytelling. and prepping for this podcast, when I was trying to think of what parts really worked for me, one of the things I wrote down was that I liked the portrait of these two criminals that Zach has fallen in with. And the reason why I like them is because number one, I think in general, these guys are on the surface and so clearly bad people and so slimy and they're so clearly lying. And you get even just through surveillance footage details about their maneuvers. you get individual backstories for both of them and that's when you do get the understanding of like South Asian migration to Uganda the way they were then exiled from Uganda ended up migrating to London
>> bringing in the contemporary New York twist
>> bringing in the contemporary New York twist I think one of the sources is My's grandfather
>> I think it's his father
>> his father and so in addition to being surprised and delighted by oh I'm learning so much for me the reason why I love those backtories of those criminal is that it brings a sense of gravity to when you then flash back to the present and you're like, "Wait a second. Zach has been hanging out with these guys.
>> The true underworld.
>> The true underworld who are these people are so desperate in their own ways for they're striving in their own ways. Similar to Zach, they just have made continually bad immoral choices. They're okay with violence." So, I liked that component. It didn't feel like a discouragement because once you get those backtories, it adds another layer of complication to our understanding of Zach. And then also this question of will these people face justice. We've you've gotten time and time again the crimes are committed and yet they're still out and about. That adds a another question to the book. that I I think that that part to me was really one of the most fascinating. um which was just how it sounds like bungled the investigation was but also sluggish like there there was sort of the sense that that the the police department in London was just so entwined with the British under or the London underworld that
>> you know there wasn't the same sort of energy that you would expect to really trying to figure out What happened to Zach?
>> Yep.
>> This kid who really did plummet to his death under very weird circumstances.
>> Yeah. It's hard to read this book and not feel outraged by
>> and I thought that was super effective.
>> I mean, one thing you think about reading a book like this is how hard it would be to be perceived the way the brothers are. even as respectful as as Keefe is, it would be a really really hard thing. I wonder if they read the book. I wonder how they feel about it. But at the same time, [snorts] I feel like they could only be satisfied with the ultimate outcome of the story he tells.
>> Wait, so we've been talking for a while about just our general thoughts about this book and all of that stuff, but I [music] think we should take a quick break and when we come back, I want to talk more about themes that stood out to us. We'll get into spoiler territory. Well, this book club is going places, but we should take a quick break first. [music] And we're back. This is the book review podcast. I'm MJ Franklin. I'm talking to my colleagues Sadie Stein and Jennifer Salai. And we are discussing London Falling. Before we go back to our conversation in the studio, I want to share some reader comments because we have up right now an article headlined book club read London Falling by Patrick Grouden Keefe with the book review. Readers from all over the world are sharing their thoughts there and I wanted to pass along a few comments that I really loved. Megan from Seattle writes, "This book was gripping and ultimately a bit terrifying as a parent. My husband and I both read it and related to the well-meaning parents. We were shaken asking ourselves how well do we ever know our kids? How much influence do we actually exert over their values and life course? So that's getting to this kind of existential haunting parenting idea in this book. Meanwhile, Donna from Kansas City writes, "To have a son you think you know but find out after an apparent suicide that he was a stranger is heartbreaking, but to learn the depths he went to in order to create a whole new persona is haunting." The author paints a brilliant backdrop to the extent to which the oligarchs in London have upended a swath of its society and the environment in which it exists. This book is a well worthwhile glimpse into the hairto for element of London society not previously on display. An excellent read, there were a few detractors. James from London writes, "The book is great on the specifics of what happened to Zach and about the extraordinary situation the Brelers found themselves in, but I take issue with the way Kee tries to make the book about something more than that, as though that weren't enough. The book's title calls to mind the Gerard Butler Beam movie, and the portrayal of London to me felt cliched and lacking in nuance. Still, others loved it, like Nancy, who wrote, "I'm a huge fiction reader, but I just find that Ke's books are so informative. I read Say Nothing. I read London Falling, and now I'm reading Empire of Pain. And what I love about Kee is the way he writes the books as if they're fiction. They totally keep my interest as to what is going to happen next. Plus, I learned so much." So, those are just a few comments. Again, there's a conversation going online, so continue the conversation. But now, back to our discussion in the studio. And we're back. Before the break, we were talking about our general thoughts. Now, I want to know what you were most interested in. And there's a lot in this book to potentially land on. This book tackles family. It's a portrait of a city. It is a portrait of technology and surveillance. It's about crime. There is this death mystery in it. There's so much happening here. I'm curious what stood out to you with this book.
>> One thing I really like is some of the backstory about the family, especially Relle's father, who has a very interesting life, who becomes a very prominent and very media savvy rabbi in London, but who has secrets of his own, which she is necessarily reluctant to reveal. They're private people, but they are pushed by this case and by their lack of satisfaction with the Matt police to commit this story to the page. I like that tension. I wanted more of it. As I said, I was also interested in some of the school stuff. This is
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Cuz this is a good point.
>> This is something we have in New York, too. There's a lot of wealth here. A lot of wealth. More than there used to be. The city has changed a lot since I was growing up. the schools have changed and there's this fixation on going to the right school and what's regarded as a second tier school and it's it's really this kind of contempt of small differences. These are all very expensive fancy schools but but there's tremendous snobbery about what's considered first rate and which is second rate and that comes up in this book too. One of the big themes is that Zach doesn't get in to this one prestigious school that his older brother attends and so then has to go to this kind of new money school which is where he encounters a lot of the kids of oligarchs and people are much richer but the school isn't considered as prestigious and kind of that's when in a sense according to one interpretation the cards are dealt for him and that I found very interesting and all too cognate living in contemporary very New York City.
>> Yeah. What did you feel about that element, Jen? I mean to a certain extent that was the interpretation I think of Rashelle at least the way it's presented in the book that she noticed a 180 change in her son when he started going to this private school that wasn't as good as the private school that he got rejected from and started hanging out I guess with these oligarchs children and started wanting to have the kind of flat cash and money that even though his parents were very well off, we should say that Relle is a journalist and Matthew the father is works in finance. I guess works in the city, right? And that I I was fascinated by that because it is presented in a way as a as almost like a a second origin story for Zach that he was brought up
>> in this from from what we can tell just like a really loving family, parents who really cared about him, cared about his well-being, cared about his mental health. And things changed when he was I mean he was quite young. I think
>> he's only 19 at by at by the end of his story. So I mean this could so easily have been a stage of a few years where a teenager kind of becomes a jerk and becomes obsessed with money and then moves on to something else. But part of the tragedy of it is we don't get to see that evolution.
>> Exactly. And there's something I I do not want to defend the British private school system, but I don't want to let Zach totally off the hook and just say it was what happened at school because I think Patrick Goden Keefe does a good job of saying here's how Zach was as a kid. He always had this thing where he while young charismatic did always seem to be like trying to one up even his own storytelling, even his own performances at family events. So there's this thing that maybe was exacerbated at private school, but I don't think private school necessarily created the crisis in which Zach is always trying to earn more money to be showboat, all of that stuff. There's there are personality stuff that we just can't get into that it's great that Patrick R and Keef didn't more pointedly say because that would be conjecture just poor speculation because as you point out Satie the tragedy is we don't know how Zach would have turned out. This could easily have been just a teenage blip in the way that teenagers are always trying to like be the best, be on top. And there's also the point where his mother says, "How do you really rebel against liberal parents?" He kind of develops this performative love of Putin and oligarchs and
>> and outrageous wealth. Kind of one of the few things he could do with permissive parents to to really shock and upset them. And and we've all seen kids do all kinds of absurd things. And the fact that he is able to convince grown-ups of of his fantasies is is part of what's really strange about the whole story.
>> Well, tell me more about this. Which grown-ups? Do you mean like his family? Do you mean the criminals?
>> Yeah, I'm I'm talking about the way he becomes involved with these kind of underworld, these shady figures. It's It is strange cuz these are middle-aged men. He even goes to school with a daughter of one of them. So, they're literally old enough to be his father. And the parents at one point do think, "Yeah, it's kind of odd that they want to hang out with a teenager." And I, as a parent, feel like I would have some questions about that. Yep.
>> You know, whatever. He's mentoring them. It's a strange situation. And and the more you learn, it doesn't get less strange.
>> Yeah, that's part of the heartbreaking thing for me, which is like Matthew and Relle clearly know something is a little bit off, but at this point, they're like, he's 18 legally. He's allowed to do this. He says that his mentors, he is showing up with all this money. He does at certain point seem to be working very hard. We don't know what he's working on, but he does seem to be finally applying himself after being lost for so long. Meanwhile, you're seeing Shamji and Sharma, and you get multiple portraits of them. At first, they're like, "Oh, we were just duped. We didn't know." And then you hear about how initially they were a little bit duped. And then you, as you're reading, you can tell they knew what was going on. They knew he was lying, but they needed him to be a figure for a purpose for their own gains. They needed him to continue the ruse so they could say, "Actually, we're doing all this because we didn't expect and we didn't know blah blah blah blah." And so that's just like a fascinating multi-layered portrait to me. Yeah, that's a great point, Sadie.
>> Yeah. So much of the book is about a about a kid kind of playing at being a grown-up and to what extent people buy it and and he of course thinks everyone he's he's totally running everything
>> and then who is in the end?
>> So that's Sadi's point. Jen, is there something that really stood out in the book to you? Yeah. And you know, I'll bring it up and I'm curious what both of you think about this, which is at various points, the Brelers learn that Zach was telling stuff to people about how depressed and overwhelmed he felt. And obviously, Shamji has his own reasons for playing this up.
>> So again, it's almost like a hall of mirrors. It's like how much of this is. But there were other people that they talked to. There's a woman that he befriended Zamira who talks about how she exchanged
>> text messages
>> with
>> Zach and he says, "Oh, I I just I I don't know what's he he seems so confused but also overwhelmed and upset." And he's revealing this to her even though he's pretending to her that he's a oligarch's child, you know. So, it's
>> And isn't he kind of flirting with her too initially?
>> Well, that was his parents think he might be involved with this grown-up woman, which they're also pretty handsoff about. It it should be said, but in the end, and she's kind of appalled when they confront her with that, like he's a he's a little boy.
>> He's a boy. Yeah. No, it's it's I guess it was just more that he was clearly suffering. At least that's how I read it at first.
>> He was clearly suffering. Felt like he couldn't. And obviously, like anybody who has a teenager knows that teenagers don't necessarily open up to their parents, but he felt he couldn't open up to his parents about what was going on or how he was feeling. He was saying stuff to these other other adults in his life. And then are we talking about spoilers yet or not yet?
>> I think yeah. So listeners, this is our pivot. We're about to dig into spoiler territory. But before we do that, are there any last things you want to say before we say goodbye to our spoiler-free friends?
>> Read the book.
>> Read the book. Read the book.
>> Read the book.
>> Okay. With that, we're about to dive into spoilers.
>> Let's dive into spoilers. Jen, take it away. Okay. So, so I should say toward the end of the book there's an inquest into what happened to Zach. And the Brelers have their theory about what happened to him, which is essentially that Zach was so terrified because Sharma and Shamji found out that he had been lying to them that when he jumped from the balcony of Sharma's apartment, it was because he was trying to escape Sharma essentially that he was in danger
>> who had a reputation for extreme violence.
>> Exactly. Yeah.
>> There's this detail where they're like, "Heat up the knives or something."
>> Oh, that's an expression, I guess, that was used in among the British.
>> Okay.
>> Or the London underworld, I think, to heat up the knives. It's really ominous.
>> Yeah. And Zach knew about this. And at this point, this is where I think the extended portrait of Shamji and Sharma is helpful because at this point, you have a sense that, okay, this is what these people are willing to do. And so Zach in his desperation is the theory is trying to flee.
>> This is Yes, exactly. This is the theory. And so Rashelle when she's talking to the inquest, she says that the way that she sees Zach's telling the fact that he told all these people about feeling, you know, feeling suicidal essentially that he was basically pleading for sympathy that it was a plea for sympathy to humanize himself. And I thought, I don't know. I don't know. It's It's just interesting to think about because I guess I wouldn't necessarily think if Zach is involved with these underworld figures that there would be any reason for him to think that they would feel sympathy for him. If he shows this this extremely vulnerable side of himself, it just adds to the puzzle, I think, for me, of who Zach was. I mean, maybe he wasn't, you know, he was still not maybe fully formed as a grown-up.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you said it just adds to the puzzle. We're still not sure how Zach really was, who he was. And that leads me to ask, now that we're in our spoiler section, how you felt about the end of the book, which is basically we don't get any answers. We get strong speculation. We get strong theories that yeah, he was trying to escape. And part of the tragedy is it seems based off of the autopsy and the wounds on his body when it was found that Zach just barely missed the temps. He just barely missed the water. He hit part of the embankment and that is what injured him enough that he drowned basically
>> and and he was a strong swimmer. They make the point and and you're left with the possibility that these are also desperately grieving parents who are are trying to come to terms with this any way they can. And and maybe this is a far-fetched theory. I mean, he leaves that door open, a crack. They they the parents respond differently. The father undertakes an almost forensic examination. He starts recording everything. That's his way of dealing with it. The mother's is maybe more emotional. The one thing you do come away with for sure I would say as I mentioned I've thought a great deal about how it would feel to be the parents who are essentially private to expose yourself in this way open your family up necessarily leaving yourselves open to criticism and also your son who comes off as a very complex and troubled kid. But I think they could only be satisfied with the fact that millions literally people are reading about this story now and to the extent they know their son's name, they think that these were bad guys, that this case was mishandled and that his death was a tragedy. And and I think what more could you want? They're not going to get him back.
>> What about you, Jen? How did you find the conclusion of the book? Did you find it satisfying just where we end up? Is there something you'll take away? I mean, I just felt so profoundly sad at the end of it, even though, again, I know we keep saying this about Keefe, which is that he's just such an expert storyteller. So, you just keep turning the pages. It's weird to talk about a book where at the center of it is ultimately a family tragedy, but because it's constructed in a way like a a a true crime novel
>> that you're you're trying to piece together what happened. And at the end of it though, the conclusion I think that Keefe comes to and he's very clear about how he came to that conclusion. you know, you feel like, okay, that that does make sense and it's profoundly sad and I still don't know who Zach was and maybe Zach didn't know who he was. The one other thing that also stuck out to me and and Keith I think does a good job with this is where they find the searches on Zach's iPad or they get the searches from the police maybe eventually it's like after the fact
>> of just things that he was looking up and it's just all the random stuff you know some porn stuff about maybe clothes like just things that teenagers would look up but none of it really adds up to a coherent view of who this kid was, but it makes sense because he was still so young.
>> Keith doesn't focus too much or or he's not heavy-handed at any rate about the role of social media in any of this, but it's sort of hanging over it, I think, a lot. This idea of creating images and the degree to which some kids are very susceptible to it.
>> That's a great point. And it's not I have a quote that I wanted to read and it's not just about social media and creating images for kids, but it's about the the fact that this is a book about a series of imposters. Patrick Raden Keef writes, "One reason that it is so difficult to know precisely what happened at Riverwalk is that Zach was by no means the only impostor in the apartment that night. Verinda Sharma was a leg breaker posing as a benevolent mentor. Akbar Shanji was a dilotant posing as an accomplished entrepreneur and Zach was just a London teenager posing as the son of an oligarch. Each was pretending to be something he wasn't and each was caught up in the glitzy mercenary aspirational culture of modern London. Quote, "It was three artists selling air." Relle said, "There's a way in which, and this is what I think is the achievement of the book and why I love it. This is such a weird strange story about one teenager dying. But Patrick Rod and Keef is thematically, I think through his research, through all the background, through his storytelling, able to tease out the shared resonance that all of them all from different backgrounds all had. And just the way he's able to connect those dots to tease out a particular image, I think is so impressive. And it is only because you have a family that cares this much that we know the story because how many millions of times is it happening every day? That's a sad point and that's a heavy point, but I also think that's a great reflective place to end this conversation on. We could talk about this book all day, but I do want to get to some book recommendations before we wrap this episode. So, let's pivot. I'm wondering what would you recommend readers pick up after they have read London falling. This could be a great many things. It could be another book about the death of a teenager and an investigation to find out what's happening. This could be just another immersive non-fiction book set in London. This could be more narrative non-fiction. I defer to you. I'm just curious. What would you recommend readers pick up next? I would say definitely read Say Nothing if you haven't and if you liked it, I second that.
>> I mean, that's a no-brainer. Um, but to go in a slightly different direction, I I thought a few times about this novella, Reunion by Fredman.
>> I don't know this one.
>> It's I don't know if it's in print right now, but it's easy to find. And I just think as a meditation on teenage boys, it could be an interesting companion piece. Without giving away too much, it's about two teenage boys in pre-war Germany, one of whom is Jewish, one of whom is from a noble family. It's about their friendship, about how the events of the world change it, and then kind of the fallout of that.
>> Interesting. I also love that like that's a fiction recommendation. this novella after reading this this non-fiction book. We love cross genres. We love cross genre recommendations. Thank you. What about you, Jen?
>> So, there's a uh non-fiction book. It's not specifically about London, but it's called Putin's People by Katherine Belton. She's an investigative journalist. I think she's based in London. It's about actually the people around Putin. So, it's a story about the Kremlin, but it's also a story about London and how London has become the hub for a lot of not just oligarchs themselves, but oligarch money
>> and how that connects to this British establishment that as as Satie was mentioning about the decline of industrial Britain that this establishment has figured out, oh, wait a second, we can actually maintain our privileges if we [snorts] yield to this new economy that's involved with high finance, shady money, all kinds of stuff. So, I mean, that book, I think, really gives an expansive sense of what's happened to London and how it connects to what's happened in Russia.
>> Interesting.
>> Yes. Jen, before we started recording earlier today, you mentioned that you had an unexpected recommendation that was you back on your non-fiction BS. Is that what this is? Is [laughter] that the
>> That's what I said. That's what I said. Although I would also say can I name one more book actually which is like another it's another non-fiction book but I think also sort of connected at least in my mind to some of the themes that are alluded to in this book which is actually by another New Yorker staff writer Rachel Lviv Strangers to Ourselves which is
>> you know I think again another excellent reporter and writer at the same magazine but she really talks about the ways in which The stories that we tell ourselves, the stories that other people tell us about who we are, shape our understanding of who we are, open up possibilities, but also maybe close down other avenues for exploration. And it was just something that I was thinking about as I was reading this book.
>> I also want to clarify when I and when you said back on your non-fiction BS, that is not a bad thing. That is back on my BS complimentary. [laughter] I have a few recommendations. This is one that we've mentioned a few times on the podcast already because it came out earlier this year. This is Days of Love and Rage by Nan Goal, also a New Yorker writer. This is a portrait of the Syrian revolution, but it follows a handful of key players in one pivotal city that really struggled against tyranny that fought for freedom that founded a democracy and then realized very quickly that it takes a lot of work to maintain that all while ISIS is growing in the region. The reason why I recommend it as a companion to London falling is because it does that Patrick Raden Keef thing where it's a huge sweeping topic told so minutely intimately through these very immersive human stories. While reading Days of Love and Rage, I was just like marveling like how did this author get this much information, but he really marshals all that research into a book that feels like reading a novel that feels like you are there on the ground. It doesn't feel like there's that distance that reportage can have. It feel you're you're there in it. And something like the Syrian revolution is such a huge topic and there's so much [snorts] culture differences from the west that I feel like it can be intimidating to learn about but that's not the case here. He brings you so deeply in. Have either of you read this one?
>> Yeah. And that's a very very good recommendation as well.
>> Thank you. And then I have two other recommendations very quickly. One is Bad Blood by John Keroo, which is an investigation into Theronos, the scam blood testing company that Elizabeth Holmes founded. And then the other is Catch and Kill by Ronan Pharaoh. Again, both bringing you very deeply, very immersively, very narratively into these big topics. I think friends that that is all the time that we have today. Sadi, Jen, thank you for joining us.
>> Thank you. We could have talked all day about this book and probably will.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. Jen, how was your first book club with us?
>> It was great. Thank you so much for having me.
>> Satie, how was our first non-fiction book club?
>> I think fantastic. I hope the first of many
>> success. This makes me very happy. Um, I also want to say a huge thank you to everyone who's read with us. Again, up online, we have an article titled book club read London Falling by Patrick Graten Keef with the book review. Continue the conversation there. And now it's time for the revelation of our September [music] book club book. Next month in September, the book review book club will be reading and discussing [music] Etna by Paul Yun. It's a war story, or rather a post-war story told from the perspective of a dog who just wants to get home. We hope you'll join us. Right now up on the New York Times, there's an article headlined book club read by Paul Yun with the book review. We will [music] be discussing the book online there and we will also chat about the book on the podcast episode that airs on Friday, September 25th. We can't wait to discuss the book with you. And until then, happy [music] reading.