Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market futures. Thank you everybody for being here. I'm sorry I'm late in those last two minutes before you go live. Something always happens, but we're here. We're live. Thank everyone for being here. Uh we got a lot to talk about, folks. We are entering into the third week of November for the equity markets, and the past two weeks have obviously been pretty choppy, I guess, is one word to describe it. Uh we're at basically where we were two weeks ago on the S&P 500 at 672. The way we got there over the past couple weeks was kind of crazy. uh you I mean in pre-markets on Friday it was just I mean there were there were some stocks that were getting back to April liber liberation day levels and it was just kind of crazy and then you had the bulls come in at 9:30 then you had a little bit more bearishness in day then we ended out kind of green kind of had the same story last week obviously we had a pretty choppy October as well so the continuation of that chop into November has been a trend and this week is going to be very important because this week we've got Nvidia earnings which is going to be you know just one of the biggest events of the entire year given we're getting into the end of the year and Nvidia is the most important company in the world. I'm going to put the green or red poll for tomorrow in the chat. Futures are already green. They actually flipped green. I posted a screenshot on Twitter like four minutes ago and it was flat and I was like, "Oh, okay. Futures are flat. That's good enough because we'll talk about crypto. Crypto has been imploding over the weekend." So, I was like, "You know what? The fact that we have some flat futures, this is what I posted a couple minutes ago." I was like, "We can we can we can handle this. If futures are going to be flat, that's not that big of a deal. And then literally three minutes after I posted, we go green. I don't know what happened. I don't know if there was a headline. I mean, I didn't see any crazy headline, but uh they flipped. Crypto kind of I mean, crypto is not green, but it's trying to develop a little bit of a green candle higher. And we'll talk about some of the stuff that could be going on with crypto. Um but yeah, we got futures that are green, which is really nice to see. So this week is going to be really important because the past two weeks have been ugly uh just in terms of the choppiness back and forth. And so you know this week's going to be important to see can we start developing a bit of a bottom around that choppiness. Tom Lee has you know kind of predicted a couple weeks ago that the first two weeks of November would be choppy and that's kind of what we're getting. And so this is the latter half of November right before Thanksgiving. You know we got a bunch of holidays coming up. And based on Fund Strap's note this morning, which we're going to take a look at, Bitcoin right there trying to get a little bit of a bounce off 92. It did hit 92,909. Ethereum hit 3003, was $3 away from going below 3,000, but did not get to those levels, 3100 right now on Ethereum. His argument is that he really does believe this end ofear chase for fund managers is going to take the S&P 5% higher, which would bring us to that 7,000 level. So, um, we'll do some analysis and see if that ends up playing out, but nonetheless, that's going to be one of the most important things that we have to take a look at. On top of that, you got a lot of stuff going on uh in the I guess bifurcation of economy argument that we've been talking about for a long time. There's a lot of different things and data points that I've been looking at over the weekend around this idea of two different economies and the health of the consumer. you had uh the professor from from Ashwath or from NYU Ashwath Delmodorian. The dude went on the the ProfG G podcast. His podcast got like 200,000 views and I think he basically scared the [ __ ] out of everybody. I mean it is an hour. I was listening it to it um on the ride home yesterday in in in my car and he was I was just I was just listening to it as I was as the as I was driving and just it's just constant bearishness from this guy saying we are absolutely in an AI bubble. It was not a question of if we're in a bubble, it's a question of how aggressive the bubble is and if the bubble is going to pop. Uh or not if it's going to pop, when it's going to pop, and to what extent it's going to pop. I mean, the guy recommended taking some of your money and putting it into collectibles. He even mentioned Pokemon cards. I told Steve about that. Steve couldn't believe it. Not saying that he is investing in Pokemon cards, but he mentioned that's an alternative asset to be curious of given the AI trade is so uh overexposed. And I mean, again, I I just think there's two different perspectives on this. either you believe that's the case and as a result you're kind of you know more scared of the AI stocks and 20 um 26 is going to be bad for the NASDAQ or you think that's not real and you think that you know the Google trading at 27 times earnings is not a bubble even if some other parts of the market might feel like they're in a bubble. So we'll explore those arguments tried to do a bit of a research this week on those or this weekend and uh we'll kind of analyze what happened. Elon also gave a keynote with Ron Baron and he talked about a bunch of different things in the world of AI. Uh Elon and Sunund went back and forth on Twitter and they said some things that I thought were relatively bullish. So, we're going to look at that. And then we have a bunch of macro charts that I want to pull up to also kind of show what we've got going on as we prepare for for 2026. As did sell a lot of his Nvidia. I mean he technically he said Nvidia was overvalued back when what Nvidia was trading at I can't I forgot the pre-split price but it was about a year and a half ago and I think Nvidia has done like a 3x since then maybe like a 1.7x roundabout I got to calculate the numbers but you know he's been screaming overvaluation for a while obviously stocks have not necessarily uh fa you know faulted in this kind of overvaluation argument but I think the sentiment in general is starting to become more a fear I put out this poll as as well that got 9,000 votes on X. And the question was, hey, what do you think for 2026? Bullish, bearish, or flat. 41% of people said bull uh bullish, but 27% of people said bearish, and 32% of people say flat. If we were to have a 20% uh 2025 return, we're at 14% right now, so we got 6% to go. That would be three years back to back to back. If we have another 2026 bull run, that would be four years in a row of 20% gains, which is not impossible. It's just hard to see. Uh but then again, do we get a bare market in the midst of this prolific bull run? I mean, it happened during that 1998, 1999 time. It ended up recovering until it topped out in 2000. But um is that possible? I think a lot of it is going to have to do with the data that we get and obviously the macroeconomic landscape. And then the biggest thing to mention before we get into the thing that happened on Friday that I think was very excited for a lot of people or very exciting for a lot of people is uh this data around the Fed. I mean, the Fed probabilities for a rate cut went down below 50%, which is just really annoying. Right now, it's at 45.8%. Everything that I've looked at, and I'm not the greatest economist in the world, but everything that I've looked at is telling me we really need to cut rates. And the idea that we would leave rates unchanged, if you look at subprime auto delinquencies, credit card delinquencies, layoff reports, and we're going to look a lot of a lot of this a lot of that stuff tonight, it signals that the Fed has absolutely lost their mind thinking that we can leave rates on like like legitimately lost their freaking mind. And it's going to be very interesting to see what happens. Now, the way this probability goes back up to 80% like it was a couple weeks ago is if we get a pretty bad labor report on I think what is it, November 21st. It's in about five days we're going to get that labor report and I think that's, you know, going to be pretty obvious to the Fed to cut rates, but that's going to be one of the things that we all are going to have to keep our eyes out on to see what's going to end up happening with rates. Having said that, the biggest story of Friday, we got six minutes until the overnight markets open was Birkshshire bought 18 million shares of the Goos. Lot to talk about here. Would love to know what people are thinking uh on this. Uh people are saying their estimated price is 243. They're getting that from a website that's just showing the reported price. None of those websites actually have the actual price. It is a $5 billion stake if you multiply 17.8 million times the current share price. I don't think his average is 243. It might be it might be a little bit lower, might be a little bit higher, but once we get the actual filings from Birkshshire, we'll be able to know exactly what price they paid. As of now, all we know is that sometime in Q3, so August and September and July, they bought Google, which is pretty crazy because Buffett and Birkshshire, the philosophy of their firm is not to touch technology companies outside of Apple, but they touched Google, which I think is very exciting. Here's a clip of Buffett from eight years ago explaining why they bought Apple, and we'll try to compare what that means to why Birchar is potentially buying Google. volatile stock. It kind of traded in this boom and bust cycle. Every time they had a new phone that came out, it would push the stock higher. If they didn't have a new release, it would drop. He said that it's still 65% of the business, but a lot of people are are maybe looking at it a little differently. And he wonders how you look at it. Is this a boom and bust cycle or is there something
>> I don't you know, I'd like to see the new release do well or you know that. But I I do not focus on the sales in the next quarter or the next year. I I focus on the they won't tell you exactly how many, but hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of millions of people who practically live their lives by it. And if you look at that little uh piece of whatever it is, you that is some of the most valuable real estate in the world. I mean, that is Fifth Fifth Avenue will never come close to that. I mean it it is you've got you've got hundreds and hundreds of millions of people with loads of buying power and able to do business uh or learn information or whatever it may be and they and it's part of their habitable living. I mean they spend hours a day and it does all kinds of things for them. So that that real estate is is worth a fortune and it's nice to have it added to as they sell new phones and of course a lot of them are replacement phones but net So, as you can see, Buffett never really, and there's plenty of other interviews that I'm talking about this, but Buffett never fully thought of Apple as a technology company. He thought of them as a consumer hardware play and that consumer hardware had mass distribution. As a result, you could build a lot of business on top of that mass distribution. And um the reason he ended up caging 20% for his career is because of Apple. In the last 10 years, they bought at a $500 billion market cap and they basically sold at around a $3 trillion market cap. They still have a decent amount of Apple, but they did sell 16% of their Apple stake in Q3 and they loaded up 2% of the portfolio in Google. So to me, the takeaway here is that I think Buffett is or I shouldn't say Buffett, Birkshshire because he's retiring is validating a bit of the AI trade. And why do I think that? Well, they have more T bills than the Federal Reserve. They have $300 billion in cash and they never touch technology outside of Apple. I mean they have missed every single technological change revolution play and then the derivative stocks that were associated with that over the past 30 years. Buying 18 million shares of one of the largest capex spenders on the planet which is going to spend about hundred billion dollars next year on data centers doesn't make sense if you think AI is a bubble. By the way, Google announced 40 billion more in data centers for Texas over the next 5 years on Friday. I mean, if you think the data center spend is stupid, if you think AI is not real, if you think the GPUs are fake, if you think there's going to be a ton of uh GPUs that are never used and all this capex spend is going to go down the gutter, you you wouldn't touch a stock like like Google. Now, Google's probably a lot more resilient to um some type of a bubble pop than like an Nvidia because obviously Nvidia gets all their revenue from chip sales. Google has a lot of other derivative businesses besides their TPUs. So, there's a lot of safety baked into Google. But nonetheless, if you think AI is fake and you think the NASDAQ's getting ready for a 20 to 30% correction, which is the chatter I've heard over the weekend, quite frankly, by a lot of different people saying they think NASDAQ's ready to go down in 2026 aggressively. I mean, why would Bergkshire put $5 billion into Google? People like, "Oh, that's only 2% of the portfol." I mean, I don't know about you, but five billion is five billion. If Google's going to go down, by the way, they're FOMOing five billion basically at the top. I mean, they probably didn't buy literally Google at the top, but like it's been 20 years, right? They're not buying Google at a hundred billion dollar valuation. So, if you think the NASDAQ's got 20 30% down to go, which Google will survive that, it's just Google's stock price will also get hit pretty bad, you would get a better return in T- bills. I mean, quite frankly, if you bought the 10-year Treasury in November of 2024 over Bitcoin, you have done better than Bitcoin, which is because Bitcoin's price action today officially went negative for the year. It's bouncing back up now, so now it's up like 1% for the year, but when it was at 93, it was negative for the year. So, why would they buy Google at anywhere near $200 to $250 if you thought there was some massive AI bubble that was getting ready to pop? I mean, it doesn't make a lot of sense to me. And I also don't think you take a $5 billion position in something that you're going to flip in the next 90 days. Like, that's just not how Birkshshire operates. If that is how they start trading, then I think they're going to in in uh inquire a new class of investors because most people that buy Birkshshire are buying into a long-term thesis. That's how Birkshar has taught a lot of their disciples on investing and also this is a holding company that sells out entire arenas of shareholders. So the amount of people that I think are going to buy Google just b I mean the amount of people that bought Google purely bec or Apple purely because of Buffett getting in I think that same effect could take place on Google and if they are getting ready to hold it for a long time then obviously that would be really important as well. All right here we go overnight markets it is 8:00 p.m. Eastern. They are now open and let's see what we've got. Futures are green. S&P 500 up 26%. That goes green 673 69 Palunteer that's up about 1% after hours 17550. Nebus that's up 3%. 8602 IRM that's up 2.8%. Regetti that's up 3%. Dwave that's up 3%. Bit mine 1.74 that's up. Tesla that's up a little bit. Rocket Lab that's up 1.19%. Robin Hood that's up 1%. Robin Hood even with crypto coming down. Robin Hood going up is uh very good. Google of course Google making a move. There you go. 292 again. You've got millions I mean one could argue tens of millions of people that follow Bergkshire religiously. They are not going to fade Google if uh Bergkshire's next big bet is Google. So I think that alone is going to justify Google you know potentially going higher. Obviously we'll see tomorrow what happens when the market opens but Google right there 293. That's up 5.6. 63%. Last time Google was touching the 290s was after that massive earnings that got disrespected a week later because we had the shutdown. But uh one could argue that they deserved to be at that since the earnings. Beyond Meat, that's up a little bit after hours. Weeble, that's up a little bit. Oaklo, that's up 2.8%. Amcor, that's up a bit. SoFi 2.19%. Big Bear AI that's up 1.82. New bank. Uh Howard Marks bought $72 million of New Bank. They also had a massive quarter and they crushed it as well. VG's up 1%. Lonard's up a little bit. That's a home builder. Uh where is Tesla? Tesla is up a half a percent 406. Did Netflix do their split? Uh well, it's up a little bit. I don't see the split on Weeble yet for Netflix, but I think the split's happening tomorrow. So then you'll see that Nebius right there up 3% again. I ren's up 1.23. Gold is green. Gold is not red. Gold's at 4,100 basically. So up about a third of a percent. So gold is doing okay. Verizon's actually down. So that's showing a little bit of risk off from the markets transitioning into risk on and kind of the whole last week was risk off. Meta right there that's up a little bit 610. Meta did fall below 600 on Friday. Oracle 22398. Oracle fell to 217 210 on Friday. Again Friday was ugly. You didn't pay attention to markets on Friday. Um then you it probably helped your mental health. But if you if you looked at your portfolio on Friday, at least during the day, it was ugly. especially in the pre-markets. But bull stepped in around 663 S&P bull stepped in. Nvidia that's up 1% 19195. We'll preview Nvidia earnings. That will be on Wednesday. We'll have a lot to talk about with Nvidia, but that will happen as well. Yes, we do have that headline from Basent. Basent said that the US is planning uh to have the trade deal finalized with China by Thanksgiving. Now, Basent says a lot of things. Sometimes they're true, sometimes they're not. That could be another reason why the market uh is happy, but we're going to have to see if that ends up happening by Thanksgiving. UNH, that's actually down. Oscar, that's up a little bit. Lemonade, that's up a little bit. Um CNC, that's down. Eleance it looks like is also down. Yeah, Eleance is up a little bit. All right, so healthcare is a little bit selective. David Ter sold 92% of his UNH. Buffett did not sell any or buy any of his UNH either. So Buffett kept it grabbed doesn't trade after hours. So we don't have pricing on that. Amazon right here that's up a little bit 32%. Amazon went from 255 all the way down to 232 on Friday. Hims 3720 that's up about half a percent. And then again Tesla for 40544. Farzot said I started position lemonade late last week thanks to the 1% IRA match on Robin Hood. Shout out to Farzot. is officially a hoodie gang member, which is awesome. They gave him a nice little incentive to take his Tesla stock and bring it over to Robin Hood. Lemonade right there, $7049. I mean, Lemonade had a great earnings. They were up 30% from earnings and so it was not too bad. For those wondering why Google is up so much, again, Birkshshire took a 18 million share stake in the company and that is why the market is uh rewarding Google right here. Coreweave, that's up 1%. This one got absolutely decimated. uh over the past two weeks. And you know, there's a lot of issues with Core Week's debt that the market's not liking, but nonetheless, that one's trying to find a bottom around that 75 level. Lily, this was on a run all of last week. Lily down just a little bit right there, 1,024. SMCI, this one also got hit last week. SMCI up a little bit, 1%. EOS, does that trade after hours? It does not. EOC was down 9% on Friday, rebounded a little bit after hours. We'll talk about the high beta momentum names, the EOSC's, the Oscars, etc. I mean, they all are pretty much taking 30 to 40% draw downs. Um, and so we'll kind of look at all of them together, but I I think, you know, at the end of the day, it's healthy. A lot of the names were getting really really up there, and those getting flushed out is not the worst thing in the world. And the ones that put up the right earnings out of those companies are going to rebound, and they're going to rebound and get a lot more momentum. But at the end of the day, they got to show some earnings. Hims right there, that one's also up a little bit. And then Amazon up.3%. Cipher does not trade overnight. Irrene is I think one of the only Bitcoin miners that trades overnight. Does Bit Farm trade overnight? No, it's pretty much just I ran. I ran right there. Iran also been getting hit from 80 to 46. That's up 2.2% after hours. Again, Iran, you know, still up 4x for the year even with this draw down. So, a lot of these names still doing one well. And then you got Nvidia right there at 192 after hours. Okay, cool. That is what we have on the overnight markets. We got a lot of headlines to get into and we'll talk about a variety of different things. Uh Nebas right there up 3.3%. Again, the S&P 500 up2, Palanteer 17487 as that is green as well. AMD is 24791. AMD actually did a pretty nice job last week. I mean after getting up to 265, then falling down to 224, rebounding to 246. I mean, if it stabilizes around 250, that would not be the worst thing in the world. So, I think AMD actually had some pretty strong price action without getting hit too bad. And yeah, Google right here, 293. I mean, look, does this thing run to 300 now that Buffett's in? Um, I don't know, but it would not surprise me. That is I I I don't think we can even I don't even think words can put into reality how serious it is for Birkshshire to stake in a company like this. Like, they're not buying some random insurance company. They're buying a company that is universally known. They're buying a company that's up 60% this year after the run. They didn't buy at 150 like, you know, or 130 last year. And they're buying a company they would never touch. You know, Munger has some interviews from back in the day where he's talking about how Google was the biggest stock they missed and how he was so regretful that they never ended up investing Google. So, the firm has always had a positive view towards Google. It's just their anti-tech bias for, you know, whatever reasons they were not a fan of in technology investing that led them to to miss it. And so for them to finally admit, wow, Google 6.2% touching 294. The fact that they're finally admitting it's time to get in is quite incredible. And I think that will be rewarded by the markets very nicely. Micron right there, that's up 3% as well. Gemini 3.0 next week as well. Yeah, you got a lot of the prediction markets saying Gemini 3.0 is going to be pretty phenomenal. I mean, you got some people speculating that Birkshshire got a little bit of an early taste of Gemini 3.0 you know, and uh they're buying it ahead of its release because they just know how powerful that model is going to be. You know, you got a lot of different AI researchers saying they think it's going to be the single best model on the planet. 2.5 ultra and the enterprise workflow adoption of that was, you know, pretty strong compared to chatbt or Gro 4. So, Gemini 3 can also be a big deal. Micron right there, that's up 3.3% and then you got the S&P 500 again up 222%. Where is Bitcoin? Are we getting a little bounce? Yes. 95 a little bit of a bounce from 92 and then Ethereum 3100 3100 on ETH. All right, cool. So, not a bad um overnight markets with all the crypto stuff that I saw over the weekend. uh it really did feel like crypto or it really did feel like the entire market was going to take a little bit of a breather and uh the fact that the market's somewhat stable and crypto is kind of trying to put in a bottom is good. So that is good to see as we get into the third week of November. All right, so let's get into it. Lot of stuff to talk about. I think we'll start off with a few headlines uh and then we'll go deeper into a variety of different things that we've got going on. First of all, I just want to play this quick clip from Tom Lee on Friday. Here's what he's thinking about the choppiness in the market and what he's expecting for the end of the month.
>> All right, let's pivot to the market itself. Uh is your confidence at all shaken in in where we are and what you thought the prospects for an endofear run could be after what we've seen this week? Well, it's never fun to see markets um wobble and then stocks that are quite popular like AI and the quantum uh and nuclear come down so hard, but it is consistent with the idea that, you know, we were up six months through October. So, the market's overbought. We expected two weeks of consolidation, which is what we're getting. And then, of course, as you know, there's hawkish Fed talk. So, there's a bit of a tantrum the market's having. But between now and year end, we still have really good seasonals. The earnings have been good. Sentiment has flipped negative, Scott, as you could tell. I mean, the AI went to negative 17.5. So, I I'd say the riskreward is still really good for equities into year end. And yeah, I think the S&P will be over 7,000 by the end of the year. You know, in fact, maybe over 7,000 by the end of the month.
>> Okay, so you got Tom Lee that's still calling for an S&P 7,000, which was about 5% away. So, I mean, it's not impossible to imagine that that could take place. This was one of the charts from their newsletter this weekend and here's what they're predicting. So 2022 S&P 500 returned negative 19%. 23 you had 24%. 2024 you had 23%. 2025 they're estimating a 21% endofear gain for the S&P 500. We have about 16% of that right now. And uh Tom is expecting another 5% of that would happen in this fourth quarter chase by end of year. The argument here that they're making is that uh fund managers are judged on their three-year performance. And if you do end up getting a bit of a run on the S&P 500, you know, if those three years end up checking out negative for certain fund managers or just like vastly underperforming against the benchmark, which which if the S&P is up 20% three years in a row, then you've got to be at least around that ballpark. That could lead to a chase. I think that is possible. I think the opposite is also something that everyone just has to be aware of which is that if the market ends up coming down the benchmark becomes less attainable because obviously markets are coming down and you know clients would be willing to listen to the apology of not being able to deliver good returns because if the entire market's losing money then you know you can't be mad at your fund manager for losing money. So if you do get any level of a draw down because of something related to the macro and we'll talk about some of the different things that we have going on next week from a macro perspective then maybe that end of your chase doesn't happen. So realistically, you're going to have to see that chase start in the next week or so. I mean, I I doubt it's going to happen towards the end of December because by then everything's priced in and markets are forward looking. So any of that forward pulling of growth that the market would have to start to allow for the chase like within the next week at least after Nvidia earnings, I think we would begin to see that thesis play out if that thesis is going to play out. But that is one of the core arguments that you have from Tom Lee. Second argument right here uh is so let's take a look at the momentum drawd down. Uh Goldman Sachs right here said on last Friday we just had the biggest one-day draw down in high beta momentum since the deepseek debacle. This is Asper Goldens trading desk. And this makes sense, right? Your Oaklo stock, your quantum, your nuclear, uh, your cryptoplay, obviously, Micro Strategy, BMR, all of these got hit pretty bad. Uh, and and and worse than your average Mac 7, right? Tesla's still holding 500 or 400. Apple's still holding around the 270s, but and Oaklo is down from 193. So, and you know, it went below 100. Now the question is, is was that the bottom on Friday on all of these high beta momentum names? Or does the market say, you know what, we really, really do not want to trust these companies that are putting up no earnings, have no fundamentals, and quite frankly are just built off hype, a lot of that hype being constituted by retail investors. Do we want to just finally take it out and say, you know what, that money's got to go to Nvidia. That money's got to go to Google now that Buffett has validated Google. Like, that money's got to go somewhere else. or does it kind of say nope that's enough for Oaklo 193 to 97 is enough and that's going to move forward and by the way it's not just the Oakloss it's the Rocket Labs of the world rocket lab was freaking $74 at one point it's at 46 I mean it's a pretty ugly dry it got to 41 on Friday so AS was at 102 at one points now is at 62 I mean a lot of these and the Rocket Lab to me is like a company with a lot of fundamentals it's not some random meme stock but none Nonetheless, it did get a bit expensive and the market took a lot of that premium away. So, the question becomes or was Friday the bottom on a lot of those names or was it not? And I think this week's going to be very important with Nvidia coming Nvidia earnings coming up and macro data being released to kind of give us an an understanding of hey, does the market actually think that these prices are sustainable even at these levels or not? And you know, obviously on a on a personal basis, you have to if you're heavy in Rock Lab, you've got to believe in Rocklab, right? if you're going to be invested in it. Same thing with a Palanteer or a Hood or a Tesla or any of these names. All of these are high momentum. Now, their draw downs compared to like the Oakloss of the world that have no earnings are different, but you've just got to ask yourself how much you believe in their multiple and and your ability to hold them for the long term when you're dealing with a high beta draw down. My gut tells me Friday was a little bit more of the flush out. And you know, if if an oak low still goes down more, again, it affects a very small part of the market. does not affect the companies that really fundamentally matter. But if it's not, then I think people just have to be prepared for a little bit more of a draw down. And quite frankly, the companies that really do have fundamentals like a Rock Lab, if you see a big dip on that, those dips get eaten up. On an Oaklo, I don't know if that dip or a quantum, I don't know if people step in, but I think on a rock lab, people do. And so, I think a lot of those are going to get compared over the coming weeks. Um, 2026, what's going to happen in 2026? Well, I found a chart this weekend, and this chart is not pretty. Let me just say that right here. Uh, it's an ugly chart, but nonetheless, it is data that we have to be aware of. Every midterm year since 1950, every single one has had an S&P 500 peakto trough decrease of average of 16%. I mean, it's kind of spooky how every freaking midterm year this ends up happening. The last one you had was in 2022, 25.4% down. Obviously, that was pretty ugly. And uh you know, we all live through that one. 2018 was 19%, 2014 was 7% and on goes the declines. The question is, does that happen in 2026? Now, the one year later return is on average 33%. So, you make up all of the return that you had lost in the previous year and then it doubles on average going into the next year. Um question is, you know, do we end up seeing that in 2026? And I think obviously one chart is not everything. There's, you know, plenty of different historical precedences that have been uh violated in 2024 and 2025. The the two-year 10-year spread has been one of the biggest ones that every economist said, "Hey, we're going to have a recession." That never happened. The SAM rule, remember Claudia S was getting all this attention. There was some big rule that after that rule is triggered, then boom, you have like this massive layoffs, unemployment. That was supposed to happen early 2024, and that didn't happen either. So, you can't use all those arguments as like the number one reason why you're going to have pain. But, nonetheless, it is something that we have to look at on a historical basis. And then I found another chart right here that kind of goes at odds with this to an extent. Um, after a shutdown, a year later, the S&P 500 is up 19 out of 22 times and up better than an average of 12.7%. So, the first chart says that in a midterm year, the S&P 500 is down 17% on average. The next chart says after a shutdown the year later, which would be 2026 because we just had the longest shutdown ever, you're up on average 12.3%. So you got two different conflicting data reports that are going to be going against each other going into 2026. And obviously there's going to be a lot more macro and AI related news that's probably going to inform this stuff. Probably policy related news as well. But nonetheless, uh you've got two different competing arguments for what the historical precedent would look like going into 2026. And I think it's going to be a lot more nuance than this, but it's definitely something that we have to keep in our minds. By the way, Google continuing to move. Wow. 296 7% on You could have even bought Google on Friday after hours and still be up 7%. Goodness gracious. Hell of a move right here. I mean, it looks like it wants 300. And quite frankly, this could lead to a little bit of a a decline in crypto and a little bit of decline in other high beta names if people just sell those and say, "I'm gonna pile into Google." 29622 right there up 7%. Oracle getting a nice move as well, 2%. The reason Oracle fell last week, by the way, and took a lot of the data center plays with it is because their credit default swaps went to the highest level in over 10 years. There was a lot of investors buying protection on Oracle's debt, which I think is a fair thing to do. New Oracle basically is going to have negative free cash flow over the next 5 years because of the amount of debt they're taking out. But, you know, it also did give up a heavy heavy amount of the I mean, it gave up pretty much all of the run it had to 350. So, one could say that, you know, might be a little bit more d-risked. And number two is that if there is an ROI from what Oracle is spending all this money on in data centers, they have a $300 billion contract with OpenAI, then their debt is going to be very secure, you know. So, I understand investors wanting to get some protection against their debt, but there also just might not be the need for that much protection if the ROI is there. So, I think that's one thing we have to watch out for Oracle. I love Google, but this is a bit too much. Well, see, the thing about these names when you get blessed by the Oracle of Omaha is do they become overvalued? I mean, I don't know. I would have to look at the multiples again from from my understanding at 270 Google was trading at a relatively reasonable 2027 Ford multiple at like 310 320. I'm not sure if that becomes as reasonable anymore, but you're definitely going to get people that get excited for that. And that's why Google right here is green. So 296 on the Googles. Tesla, are we moving on Tesla? Tesla down 401 after hours. Tesla was green. Now Tesla goes red as Google goes up. Okay. Uh macro with the administration. So what did Bent and all of the others say over the weekend? Well, they had a lot to say and a lot to try to justify what is going on in the economy, especially around affordability. I know people are probably tired of hearing that term, but nonetheless, that term is being used more and more. Uh let's get into a couple of different things. Here's the first thing Bent said to justify the reason beef prices are as high as they are.
>> But what is your take on what you just heard? He's expecting $10 uh meat.
>> Well, Maria, the Maria, the the the beef market is a very specialized market. It goes in long cycles and that this this is the perfect storm. again something we we inherited and there there's also because of the mass immigration a disease that had been we've been rid of in North America made its way up through South America you know as these migrants they brought some of their cattle with them so you part of part of the problem is we've had to shut the border to Mexican beef because of uh you know this disease called the screw worm and we're not going to let that get into our supply chain and again uh you know I don't want to focus the on one product it's very important product and we are laser focused on on this issue and
>> so his argument is expensive illegal cows are the reason why beef is surging I don't fully understand uh the extent of that argument I I'm not necessarily the uh best cattle expert. But I I think a lot of people are not really buying that argument. And you know, the big headline over the weekend outside of this was that Trump is officially going to be lowering prices on beef, coffee, bananas, and a variety of other things. Not lowering prices, lowering tariffs in hope of getting those prices to come down. Um, look, I don't really care about politics. You guys know I don't give a [ __ ] about left or right. You can believe whatever you want to believe. I just think logically if you're lowering the tariffs on items that you already tariffed, remember Brazil, we gave a 50% tariff. That's part of the reason why coffee prices are up so much because we import a lot of coffee beans from the place we just put a 50% tariff on three months ago. You're explicitly admitting that the tariffs were not a good idea in those instances. Now, you may argue that the tariffs were very strong in negotiating with China or India or South Korea or whatever, but in this instance, you're obviously making an appeal to the American people by saying, "Hey, we're lowering the tariffs so that the cost of all these foods are going to come down, which is admitting that putting on the tariffs probably increased those prices." So I think to one extent the Trump administration is defending the tariffs as you're going to see Bent say in the next clip but to the other extent they are obviously admitting that they had to decrease some of those tariffs to get these prices come down.
>> Let's say this in the strongest possible terms. I think that there are three points here is one this is one of President Trump's signature policies signature policies and traditionally this Supreme Court does not interfere with a president's signature policy. Two, this is an emergency authority which is AIPA. President Trump has successfully used that the one to as we talked about earlier, you know, on the rare earth problem, he threatened substantial tariffs on China and that made the rare earth flow. Two, uh, several numerous of the peace deals that he's negotiated, he threatened to put tariffs on the countries and that got us to the peace deal. Three, when we're talking about fentanyl, we had fentanyl tariffs. And you know, what is more of an emergency than hundreds of thousands of Americans dy dying every year? No one had been able to get the Chinese to the table with these precursor drugs. And then three, I would push this back onto the Supreme Court. I don't think this ruling is going to go against us, but if it does, what's their plan for refunds? Because how is this going to get to consumers? Are they just going to h hand the some of these importers big windfalls? What what if the exporters have given big discounts already and then you're going to give a refund on the tariff? So they'd be making it on both sides. So I don't think the Supreme Court wants to wade into a mess like that.
>> Yep. When Wendy
>> say this. So you've got Bent making some logical arguments here, which is that we wouldn't be able to get the Chinese to negotiate with us if it were not for the fentinel tariffs. And you know, based on how the Trump administration has negotiated or at least set up a negotiation for a framework for a deal with China, one could argue that yes, those tariffs were absolutely instrumental. It's just the broadbased application of those tariffs everywhere. Obviously, now that they're rolling them back on certain types of products like coffee and bananas and and beef, uh likely mean that they were a bit misguided. So, there is a bull case in the tariffs. There is now a more explicit bare case based on the Trump administration admitting that some of the tariffs that need to take off. The question becomes the Supreme Court case, which I don't know what's going to happen. Uh and we should get a result by the end of November. By the way, Nebia is right there up 5% along with Google. So, both of those making a little bit of a run in the overnight markets. The question is if the Supreme Court is actually going to think of the material implications of completely reversing all of the deals that have been uh negotiated through the tariffs because if the tariffs are legal then you know Trump can't say that he has all these deals because a lot of these countries might want to reag on the deals or do they uphold it and I don't know there is a lot of different um nuance to this. I've read a lot of different think pieces by people saying that there's no way in hell the Supreme Court upholds it. Maybe somehow the Supreme Court comes in and says that, you know, there's a constitutional way to justify it. But at the end of the day, I think the more sane case without going super uh left or right is that the tariffs have been useful in certain situations like getting the Chinese to like talk. And you know, Trump is right that in terms of certain countries that have been at war, a lot of the tariffs have been used as a way to say, "Hey, if you don't stop fighting with this country, we're just going to tariff the [ __ ] out of you." Those are meaningful ways to use it, but the broad-based application on certain goods and services obviously have not been the best. And now the administration is trying to really fight back back this affordability narrative because they know the midterms are not going to be that pretty if the affordability of the country does not improve. And speaking of affordability, that gets us into the next topic. Debt. So going up. Mortgage debt 13.7 trillion all-time high. Credit card debt 1.2 trillion all-time high. Student loans 1.65 trillion all-time high. And then auto loans 1.66 trillion all-time high. This is the reason why you think you're seeing a lot of people talk about affordability because debt is up there. And then when you take a look at this chart right here, US delinquencies are continuing to rise. 12.4% of credit card balances are seriously delinquent. Sirius is defined as 90 days plus. This is the highest since Q1 of 2011. Auto loans, we've been talking about that a lot. 90 days overdue. That's three months. It's 5% highest in 14 years. And then student loans is 9.4% 4% in terms of delinquency is the highest since the second highest since 2020. Student loans is the least surprising to me because after it being paused for five years now that people have to pay it again like you would imagine people just kind of forget that they even have those student loans. But the credit cards and auto loans are the ones that are reaching highs that we haven't seen in the past decade and that's not necessarily the best thing to see. So does that mean this we're getting into a bare market? I I don't think that's the case. Like I don't think you can just define all right bare market because consumers struggling. However, it's definitely something that complicates the bull argument and you can see with Bent and Hassid and Trump talking about affordability. They're understanding that if we don't fix the affordability problem or at least we don't have the perception of fixing the affordability problem. We're going to get our asses handed to us in the midterms and if we lose in the midterms we're not going to, you know, it's going to be a lamed up presidency. You're not going to have any ability to do anything for the next two years or for the last two years of the Trump second term. On top of that, the other reason I think affordability is becoming such a big issue is because um if the consumer problem is as big of a problem as people think it is, uh i.e. that the rich consumer is not able to spend enough on goods and services based on the wealth effect and seeing you know their Nvidia stock go up 50%. To subsidize the bottom end of the consumer which ends up keeping earnings growth stable. uh aka if you know 10 people making less than 50,000 a year can't buy a Starbucks coffee, you have one person or two people that have you know do did really well in the markets and they buy a lot of Starbucks coffee. So that subsidizes Starbucks earnings. If that goes away, aka those two rich people or two, I guess middle class people can't continue to buy the Starbucks coffee because even they're like, "Yo, enough is enough." Well, then the stock market goes with it. And if the stock market goes and the con the low-end consumer goes and you have a tariff reversal and then you have this whole affordability narrative going the opposite direction just gets ugly. Just gets ugly. So I think that's how the administration is thinking of it because they know that if Starbucks earnings go out the window because even middle class people don't have the resources to be able to continue to buy that additional cup of coffee, things get ugly. I mean this president the one thing that he cares about is the stock market. If we lose the stock market that is not the best. So, I think that's the most important thing we have to keep track of over the next coming days and a lot of that's going to be implicated through the data that we'll talk about in a second and that data is going to have to do with the labor market which hopefully gets the Fed to be more inspired to cut rates. Here's Kevin Hasset as well trying to defend what's going on with affordability.
>> The president claims that Thanksgiving costs are down 25%. I mean, does he know that's not true?
>> Well, if you look at uh Walmart and the few places that put out their prices of
>> Wait, wait, wait a minute. I I got to stop because the Walmart comparison's like not a I mean Walmart had a Thanksgiving package last year. They've got a Thanksgiving package this year. The one this year contains much less than what the one last year it took. So that's why the price is less. Look, we got a chart here. Uh last year it was 21 total products. This year it's 15. Uh total number of items in those projects was products was 29%. Now 29, now it's 22. Uh there's more generic brand stuff. So, I mean, Thanksgiving, if you're going to the store to buy groceries for Thanksgiving, it's going to be more expensive this year.
>> I really don't understand where you're going in the sense that Joe Biden gave us Joe Biden gave us 20%.
>> He's not president. Donald Trump's president.
>> No. And you're you want us to to fix the hole that Joe Biden, why does the president tell
>> the prices went up so much under Joe Biden and inflation is way down. Inflation is about half what it was in December. Uh this is something that's being fixed fast and real incomes are up after dropping about 3,000 under Joe Biden. And so sure you could fight a few things where the price is higher, but there's a whole bunch of stuff where the price is lower like gasoline. Like
>> where are we going to get the Republican plan? you understand that mortgage rates have gone way down and it's much cheaper to buy a home now than it was when Trump took office, right?
>> Yeah. So, um
>> there is a lot of this argument from the Trump administration officials on uh Biden ended up giving us, you know, a bad deal. And look, they could be right on that argument from a technical perspective. It's just at the end of the day, not a lot of people are going to care, right? I mean, at the end of the day, people are not going to want to listen to excuses. They're going to want to know when will the prices of a lot of their goods and services come down. So I think the administration knows that and because the administration knows that they are trying to do whatever they can to have a meaningful way to reduce these prices and make things more affordable. I mean Trump literally said last week we are going to make America affordable again. But I think that's going to be the next big thing that the administration is going to have to focus on which gets us into this jobs report. So we should be getting the jobs report over the next week. And this jobs report is going to be super super important. And we looked at a bunch of data last week and last week obviously the data was not good. Well, there were two things that happened last week that I think really spooked the markets even though we ended up recovering by Friday. Um, number one is that we got all this third party data saying that the jobs that we added back in October, remember uh ADP said it was 50,000. ADP came out and said actually it's negative 42,000. So they they said we lost 11,000 jobs a week in the month of October. that wasn't good to see. So, so that in of itself, you know, the one of the only third party reliable sources of private payrolls came out and said, "Yeah, things are not going as good as we thought." And then number two is that the White House came out and said, "You're not going to get the October report." So, if we're not going to get the October report and uh the jobs data was already bad, then you you've got the entire market wondering, "Wait a second. So, we don't have the data on what happened in October. We're never going to get the data on what happened with October. and now we have to wait another month to be able to see what ends up happening. Like those two things were just not good to see. Now I think there's a lot of different bullish arguments that can counteract those things and you saw that in the price action. I mean Nvidia ended the week at 191. So as ugly as you would imagine those headlines were you know Nvidia being at 190 is not really that ugly. So then the question becomes why did investors buy stocks? Well, because things got cheap and as things got cheap, people overlooked the macro concerns about the labor market and they said, "You know what? I need to buy equities." Which again, that's been kind of the vibe of this entire year, right? Like things go down, people buy the dip. That has continued to work. And as long as that continues to work, we're going to be able to take some of the hit on the labor market stuff. But it gets to a point, and I think when we get the labor market report going into next week, it likely will be negative, or at least not positive. and this Fed probability of 45%. I mean, quite frankly, the only thing that I think can save the December rate cut, which is overwhelmingly starting to look like we're not going to get it, I mean, you had one of the presidents last week, uh, Fed President Logan, who said we should be hiking. The fact that there's any chatter about hiking when auto delinquencies are at a 14-year high, I mean, like, like already mortgage rates and auto rates are starting to become unaffordable to the everyday American. the idea that we would hike that by an extra 25 bips. I mean, that that would be unfathomable. So, like the only way that that flips is if we have a pretty bad labor market report, aka bad news being good news. And the nuance has to be that the labor market can't be so bad that it messes up earnings because then stocks go down. But it can't be so good that we don't get a rate cut because if we don't get a rate cut, I I don't know if S&P 7000 is possible without getting that one rate cut. And you saw Tom Lee on Friday try to kind of spin the argument and he said it's not a spin, but basically it was a spin, right? His argument was, well, if we don't get a rate cut, that means the economy is doing okay, so technically stocks should be fine. And he's not like actually wrong on that. I mean, 2024, 2023, we had really good years and we barely had any rate cuts. So, like he is right that stocks have shown the resiliency to go higher in the midst of higher rates, but it does feel like this market is priced for another cut. And if we don't get it, I think that could be that could be a little concerning. So, that's what we're going to have to see. Michael over the weekend. Yes, Michael Bur tweeted a couple hours ago. Uh I don't know what he's launching on November 25th. He did shut down his entire fund. So that did happen uh last week. I think he's going into content creation because it looks like a blog will be launched. And I think that blog is going to be dedicated to the AI bubble. Genuinely, I think that's what's going to happen. So this is what he tweeted over the weekend. This is a uh chart of S&P 500 total capex less depreciation divided by nominal US GDP. And at the top of the chart, you see the NASDAQ 100 all-time high fourth quarter of 2025. He's basically making the comparison implicitly to the dot bubble by using this GPU depreciation argument divided by GDP. Um and then the caption is one chart to refute them all to be continued November 25th. I think he's basically going to launch a blog or some type of media service that is dedicated to talking about what's going on in the economy and you know maybe that's rooted in like his concerns around AI or what's going on. But yeah, I guess that's one thing we'll keep an eye on. But he is still hung up on this argument about um depreciation and GPUs being like the biggest accounting fraud in history. We watched the video from ticker symbol UU on Friday and it was a short clip where he talked about how Nvidia software has various updates on their chips that allow the GPUs to be um uh allows them to be effective for on average about two more years. So you would argue that companies don't have to depreciate them as aggressively which would like lead to the sort of dichotomy of earnings growth that Michael Bur was talking about because they get more of a life cycle out of them. And you know, I think we've seen this already with a lot of companies still being able to use the H100s, even if they're not fully on the Blackwell chips. Um, so that's one retort to that argument, but nonetheless, he feels pretty passionate about the idea that this GPU depreciation is horrible for earnings growth, or at least it's overstating a lot of the earnings growth. Having said that, he had this happen over the weekend. Uh, Elon responded to Sundar, CEO of Google, who just tweeted the the 40 billion of of data center spend they're allocating in Texas. He says it's mind-blowing how much money is being spent on AI compute so fast but still many orders of magnitude to go. And then Sundar says between abundant sand plenty of sun and space literally to put it in we can do it. So you got Michael Bur saying this whole GPU AI capex stuff is a full-on bubble. And then you've got Elon who wants to literally start his own chip farm as he talked about a couple weeks ago and Sundar who wants to put data centers in space. So to me when I look at you know two relatively competent CEOs of multi-t trillion dollar companies saying that we need to keep the spend because the demand that we're seeing on our products whether it's Gemini cloud YouTube Whimo Google AI Elon with FSD robotics etc is becoming so dramatic and and outstripping the amount of supply that they have in some cases 5 to one that they are thinking of entirely new creative ways to build out these data centers which are going to have a variety of issues on the US economy especially in the context of like electricity prices. So like there there are negative impacts of this but the broader trend is up when you have these types of companies spending this type of capex and that's super bullish. Nebius, Irene, all the Bitcoin miners that are transitioning to data center plays. Like if there is that much spend being allocated to the system, obviously there's going to be some third order derivative companies that are going to benefit from that spend. And you know, Buffett and Birkshshire invested in Google knowing that they're ready to spend that money. Now, the really bullish thing that happens in the next maybe 5 to 10 years is when they stop spending all this on capex and that money goes back to free cash flow. But at least I would argue for the next two to three years, if we want to be super conservative, maybe two to three years is aggressive. I don't think it is. Given the guidance we've got, you're going to see the spend and that spend should be relatively bullish. So, that's what we have in terms of what's going on with the data centers. Yes, it could be bullish. Rocket Lab as well if you need Rocket Lab to launch all those uh data centers into space. Uh Peter Teal did sell his uh Nvidia stake. So, Peter Teal's fund came out with their 13F and they did a couple of things. They they sold all their Nvidia. They sold uh 76% of their Tesla. They sold 100% of their VST, which is another data center player, but they added Apple and Microsoft. So, it's kind of weird. I mean, like everyone's like, "Oh, you bearish AI. Peter Teal just sold all of his Nvidia." I'm like, "Well, why is he buying Apple and Microsoft?" Like, Microsoft's still going to spend a crap ton on capex. You know, Apple's not, but nonetheless, you got to bet that Apple's going to meaningfully innovate next year to, you know, expect positive returns. So, Tesla, I understand. I mean, Peter Teal at the end of the day, you know, he is not really an investor that holds on to names that are super super expensive. At the end of the day, Tesla trading at 200 times earnings. Peter Teal was probably like, "Hey, I want to take some profits here." Um, Nvidia, I don't think is that expensive. If you look at their earnings growth going into the next couple years, I mean, trading at 27 times 2027 earnings is not that crazy to me, but nonetheless, you probably want to take some profits, but I don't understand why you would pile into Microsoft and Apple at the same time. And and the founder of Microsoft, I mean, I thought this was even more interesting, ended up selling 60% of his Microsoft. Bill Gates, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation sold 64% of they bought nothing in Q3. They managed $ 36 billion and they trimmed 64.9% of Microsoft. I thought that was more interesting than anything else outside of the Birkshar buying the Google um Google stake this weekend. But nonetheless, that was what Peter Teal did as well. So that's what we got with Birkshshire, Peter Teal, and some of the trades over the weekend. We do have a headline on Russia uh and tariffs. Let me pull this up right here. Trump approves Trump approves bill allowing tariffs up to 500% on Russia's trading partners. Huh. Okay. Uh I don't know if they're going to select or if they're going to use this in a broad-based way against every company that trades with Russia or country. For example, India trades a lot with Russia and we are trying to do a lot of business with India. But this does give them the power to deploy tariffs of up to 500% on other countries that do work with Russia. Now granted, like is he even allowed to do this? Like the Supreme Court's going to tell us pretty soon, is this legal or not? I guess for now it's legal until we get that decision. But there you go. You got tariffs on any partner that works with Russia as per the administration approving this bill that came out about five minutes ago. Yeah. Again, I don't think they're going to use this against India because they're trying to get good relations with India. Uh but they probably will use it against other countries that might be trading heavily with Russia and you know that might be a negotiation tactic which again I am a fan of that. I think it is a good thing to have that level of terror flexibility to to to deploy against uh adversaries in a way that allows you to do business with them um and like get the job done to move forward with a effective trading relationship. It's just the broad-based application on a lot of different goods and services that Americans pay for. That's you know what is potentially causing the fear of inflation with the Fed, which again is just so weird because you know JPAL even five weeks ago was saying that the tariffs are transitory. Like we all heard him say the tariffs are transitory, right? That's not me making it up. He said that multiple times and now the entire Fed is afraid about tariffs causing more inflation. Like this is I'm starting to realize why people hate the Fed so much. Like these guys have so much power and they say one thing and then they do the next thing and then they can't make up their mind. And this time going into this end of year uh potential rally that we could be getting on the backs of rate cuts which was 100% probability less than three weeks ago now going to less than 50%. I mean, it's obviously pissing a lot of people off and that's why you're seeing some pain in the broader equity markets. Not to mention, you're also seeing pain in the crypto markets. One of the reasons I think crypto is seeing pain is because we're not going to get juicy liquidity because the Fed might not be cutting. Here is what Michael Sailor had to say about what's going on with Bitcoin.
>> How low you think Bitcoin goes in the cycle right here? If it goes any lower, where does it go?
>> I think it's pretty stable where it is right now. I mean, most of the liquidation selling is out of the system. I think we should rally from here
>> and then where what do you think it ends? I DON'T BUT I don't believe in four year cycles any they might have had some credence in the first 12 years but I right now
>> the fouryear cycle is somehow based on the idea that 225 bitcoin a day get taken out of the supply after the next havinging that's $22 million or $20 million of buying trust me $20 million of buying the market traded hundred billion yesterday 20 million is is not even a third order issue at this point
>> yeah the dynamics in the market are much more that you know Jerome Pal thinks he wants to hold interest rates higher for longer right it's macroeconomics it's political it's structural when you know when IBIT's derivatives market went from 10 billion to 50 billion it did that in four weeks I mean so so those kind of things when JP Morgan you know offers 10 or hundred billion dollars of loans against Bitcoin that will dwarf the four-year cycle
>> it's the actions of the mega finance actors that are determining the future of Bitcoin right now and all the fundamentals are good. So my advice to anybody is first of all if you make decisions with a 12 month or less time frame you're a trader. If you're a trader you know you're a trader. I have zero advice for you. You know I'm not a trader. I'm not a good trader. Yeah. I don't purport to be. I have zero advice for you. On the other hand, if you're an entrepreneur or if you're an investor, you should have a time frame of four years or longer, four to 10 years. So, you have a bit of a breakaway from uh Sailor in this four-year cycle. Here's what uh Hunter Horesley said. He's the director of the Bit Wise ETF. He says, "Common view, people believe in four-year cycles and that 2026 will thus be a down year for Bitcoin. First order effect, people thus sell in 2025 to avoid the down market year. Second order effect, the 2025 sellers causing 2025 to be a down year, thus breaking the four-year cycle. Third order effect, 2025 is open season. Four-year cycle has been broken. I mean, [laughter] kind of makes sense because in the four-year cycle, as you can see on this chart right here, the first three years are green. If 2025 ends up going red, then technically 2026 should make up for the three years that need to be green if you had a red year in the middle of that four years. So I mean maybe it makes sense. I personally just think all the institutionalization of crypto as Sailor was saying the fact that people are or the banks are getting ready to give people loans against their crypto particularly their Bitcoin as collateral goes to show you how much an institution like JP Morgan which you know Jamie Diamond has hated crypto for the past decade is starting to legitimize the asset class because if you get a loan against an asset the bank obviously thinks the asset has enough value to let you borrow money against it and I think that's going to be a lot more exciting but nonetheless crypto performance this year has not been that strong in the face of that. Take a look at this. Speaking of 13Fs, Harvard's endowment fund, their largest position and their biggest position increase in Q3 was IBIT, the Bitcoin ETF from Black Rockck. They added $326 million to that in the Q3. Um, that's not easy to do. You know, when you're an endowment from Harvard, you know, you're supposed to be just preserving the money, buying the stuff that's basic, not getting in trouble. you know, if Google goes down by 10% and you buy Google, no one's going to blame you. The fact that they're taking IBIT as their number one position is quite incredible, especially given the fact that um you know, a lot I imagine a lot of the Harvard bit uh economic professors don't believe in Bitcoin. I remember my Rucker's economic professor, you know, in 2017 when Bitcoin made that run to like 20,000. I remember everyone in my this was macro 101. This was macro 101. um uh was talking about it because all of us were like that's the first time I I I freaking uh bought I I downloaded Coinbase because I was like dude I got to got to buy some of this [ __ ] it keeps going up and um and and we I remember us asking our professor about it and dude he absolutely [ __ ] on the idea of Bitcoin magic money fake not real you know what do you call it uh money laundering drug lords use it I don't think the broader economic consensus in the elite class has changed I mean Paul Krugman did an interview dude Paul Krugman is just I mean goodness gracious I understand why people don't really love his uh economic analysis, but he he was on a podcast recently and I tried listening to it and I was just like it's kind of hard to I mean first of all the guy hates Trump and I'm like that you can have your political beliefs but goodness like when I'm listening to an economist I don't want there to be such political bias that it becomes impossible to like get the real gist out of their argument but the guy hates Trump so that in influences a lot of what he's saying and then two he just absolutely hates crypto and that's fine you can hate crypto but it's like the the the arguments are just so old and basic there's not like anything unique Um, but yeah, nonetheless, I still think you have a lot of different people that just completely hate the ecosystem of crypto, but you got a lot of people that also think the four-year cycle is not going to be real. Bitcoin right there, 94,940, and then Ethereum 3128. Is anyone buying the crypto dip or has anyone bought it over the weekend? Ethereum hit the low 3000s, then it bounced. Bitcoin hit 92,000. I am really curious to see what the hell is going to happen when the market opens this weekend. If crypto is going to be able to get any level of liquidity, if we get a bad labor market, does that hurt crypto? Do people run to sell crypto if they see the S&P 500 fall a couple percentage points or do they keep it going? By the way, Japan, their GDP came out um this uh like what is it this two hours ago, their GDP was negative 1.8% on an annualized basis. The street was expecting negative 2.4%. So it was the first it was a it was a beat in terms of the expectation uh but they uh had their first quarter of detracting or contracting GDP for the first time in six quarters. So in about a year and a half uh that does have an impact on Bitcoin. Why? Because this lowers the Japanese yen and we all live through the yen carry trade. The yen right now touching 130 over the US dollar. Um, if that goes down and you got a lot of people that are long Bitcoin short the yen and they end up dealing with a carry trade again, guess what they're going to do? They're going to sell their Bitcoin to cover their yen short. So, you got a lot of different macro things affecting Bitcoin in general and the overall crypto trade, but I think we have to see how bad it ends up getting. Uh, Bitcoin and crypto does have their own extreme fear and greed calculator just like the equity markets do. And uh right now it is screaming extreme fear. We're going to see if that ends up being the case, but I think it's at an 18 level right now and that's why it's getting it. Now going a little bit more deeper in ter in terms of what's going on to crypto. Here's a couple of charts that I think are important to understand. Uh this appears to be a structural and mechanical downturn. Institutional outflows started mid to late October. First week in November, you saw crypto funds have 1.2 billion of outflows and the problem became excessive when you had a lot of leverage amid these outflows. Uh we've all heard about perpetual futures contracts and the ability to go up to 50 to 250x leverage on these positions. If you took out a 100x leverage position on Bitcoin, a 2% move would liquidate your position. Um in October 10th, we saw 19.8 billion get liquidated by one candlestick. That's when Trump tweeted what he said about China. So you had a decent chunk of leverage in the system that got hit. Obviously, that affected Bitcoin and Ethereum. Ethereum is down 35% since October. And then if you look at the entire crypto ecosystem, about a trillion dollars has been or sorry, 2.1 trillion has been lost since October. So my like gut assumption here, and I'm not an expert on crypto, so I'm just giving my gut assumption, is that when you have that much structural leverage get wiped out, when you have all these funds continue to um have outflows, that is a deleveraging event. That is not a bare market event. And and I think the difference right here is a bare market is you assume that you're going completely riskoff. And if you're going completely riskoff, there's the fear and greed on Bitcoin. uh then obviously these assets have a lot more to fall. If you're deleveraging, it's not really going risk off. I mean, you could even say Oracle had a bit of a deleveraging trade over the past month because people were so afraid of their debt that they issued after the um OpenAI deal that people said, you know what, I want to take my profits. I want to kind of let things chill out and I'll get back in when I think things make sense. I don't think Oracle is in a bare market. I don't think Oracle is a fraud. I don't think Oracle is going to zero. And so, it's the same thing with crypto, but nonetheless, Oracle might not be up another 40% next I mean, Oracle is still up 40% of year to date even with the draw down from 350. So, 34%. Does Bitcoin have that type of a move in 2026 if Bitcoin ends up negative? I think that's going to be the question that everyone tries to figure out. I see a lot of people here saying they bought a bit of crypto over the weekend. Some people saying they're getting ready for BMR Micro Strategy. Again, MSTR negative year to date. I mean, I really want to see if ETH can hold 3,000. That's my question because if it can't hold 3,000, you know, obviously we're going to see a lot more pain, but it bounced literally off $3,3 today. So, the fact that it even got that bounce, I thought was impressive, but tomorrow when the market opens, you're going to see a lot more trading volumes come in. Uh Elon Musk, Tesla, here's Elon saying optimists will end poverty in a more optimistic view of AI over the next decade. So and but the the reason for hand dexterity is you want to be able to do um like surgery and precision medical actions and um so imagine a world where everyone has access to the best surgeons, literally everyone. And uh Optimus will have the level of precision that is frankly superhuman. Um and will be able to do medical procedures um of very sophisticated medical procedures, any any medical procedure perhaps things that that really humans can't even do because they're too they're too difficult. Um and that will be available to anyone. You know, people often talk about eliminating poverty and providing great medical care, but they never they never actually have a solution. Um, and and money doesn't solve it because there are only so many uh there's a very limited number of of great doctors and surgeons. Uh, they don't grow on trees. Um, but now they they will get built in factories. So, I mean, you got Elon posting a more optimistic view of AI. I know we've been talking a lot about the labor market and what's going to happen in the world of AI if the labor market becomes commoditized via robots and, you know, LLMs, etc. And I think that's still a question around what happens to the labor market. But you got Elon with the optimistic view of hey we are going to eliminate the cost of goods being so high by massive massive levels of deflation because the robots or the AI at large is going to be doing all the things that we paid humans to do and as those costs significantly go down that will be a way in the mind of Elon to potentially eliminate forms of poverty. Um, time will tell. Time will tell. But obviously, you're seeing him take a more optimistic view. And you know, this optimistic view is going to be very important by a lot of the thought leaders of AI that exist in our society because you had a politician over the weekend, Ro Kana, who from California, uh, who made an argument that said, "We need to seriously think about all of the AI innovation that's going on. um and we need to potentially stop some of it if it's going to lower jobs. And you had David Friedberg come out with a super long response and basically say that you're an idiot and that there's no way that we can allow technology to stop progressing just to be able to uh save jobs, which is obviously the argument that a lot of the billionaire class and a lot of the arguments that are in the shareholder class are going to be promoting because pretty obvious AI increases margins. Replacing humans increases margins and increased margins increases shareholder returns. Uh, but you're going to have politicians that are going to come out against it. You really will. Look at this Roana. We need eliminations or regulations that prevent companies from using AI to eliminate jobs to extract greater profits. Artists that these companies need to have a say in how AI is deployed. They should share in the profits and there should be a tax on mass displacement. I think it is inevitable that there will be a politician that rises to power, whether it's a Democrat or Republican, off the idea of protecting people's jobs by regulating the crap out of the AI companies or at least taxing the crap out of them to make sure that what if Amazon saves, you know, $300 billion over 10 years by replacing two million workers with robots that some of that 300 billion comes to the government and gets redistributed in some way. But it just seems inevitable. It's it's it's if you're going to have mass unemployment, which again it's a big question on how societyy's going to deal with it. Now, the optimistic argument is, you know, costs are going to get so low that even if you don't have the best high paying job, it doesn't matter. That's Elon's perspective. The other perspective is there's going to be a lot of new jobs that are going to pop up and so all those new jobs are what's going to give people meaning and purpose to life. No one knows how it's going to play out, but nonetheless, it is going to be a debate. And I think, you know, for most of us, the only thing you can do is own some stock in those companies that are going to be engaging in that because at the end of the day, in the midst of that debate, their share prices likely go higher on increased earnings, and that's what investors are going to care about the most. So, that's what we got. That's what we got in the context of the labor market. Tier, thank you for the $20 super chat. Worst case scenario for 2026, the Fed is too late. Recession, two, earnings down, crypto winter. Three, LM performance diminishes. Four, tariffs revoked or reimbured. Five, Trump and GOP implodes. Social socialism rises. And six, geopolitics deterior rates. Yeah, I couldn't have said it better than myself. I think those are six legitimate concerns for 2026. And again, we're going to talk a lot more about 2026 as we head into the end of the year. Um, I think it makes a lot of sense for people to have hedges. I mean, pick whatever stock you want to hedge against, but especially if you have a, you know, if you have a huge Nvidia position, I think it makes sense to have an Nvidia hedge. simple as buying puts on Nvidia. Um, if you have a huge, you know, leveraged position against the market being long and you're up 300% over the past couple years, it I don't think it hurts you to buy some puts on the spy just in case things don't go as well. I think I I I don't think the plan the way I'm thinking of it right now for 2026 and again all six of these things are very reasonable to happen and you know that could create like like a bare market scenario. I don't think the argument is to get out of the markets. I think that's too extreme and that's what Ashwath We'll talk about Bill Aman. I see you guys talking about him. Bill Aman had a hell of a tweet this weekend. We'll talk about that. But um I I I I I think Ashwath on the the Profod basically scared everybody for an hour and a half and said you should just get the hell out of markets because we're in a bubble. And I think that's too extreme. I think that's a bit too arrogant and that's undermining the potential of not knowing what you don't know. these companies might end up continuing to outperform like they have over the past couple years because AI is as serious as it is and it's as important as it is. But that doesn't mean to say labor market can't fall off a cliff. Um the uh tariff implication of that being reversed could have you know issues in the market. Inflation potentially flare up again and the Fed might not end up cutting for the next nine months. I mean like there's a lot of different arguments for why I think having a hedge in 2026 makes sense. And I didn't say this for the past couple years because I didn't think making a h I didn't think having a hedge in 23, 24, 25 made a lot of sense because there was just so much momentum to the upside and the earnings growth was so strong and companies were still I mean you don't need a hedge when Robin Hood's at $8. You need to be buying calls when Robin Hood's at 8. You need like you need to be leveraging up and taking advantage of that bull market and a lot of us did. But now that Robin Hood's $130 billion market cap, I mean does Robin Hood go to $250 next year? And it's very hard to see that like and if it does I'm happy but if it doesn't I think having a hedge is not the uh the worst idea in the world. I mean literally the title of this podcast and I'll link it in the chat for anyone who wants to hear it is there's no place to hide in stocks. I mean, I'm I'm listening to this as I'm driving back home yesterday and I'm like, goodness, this guy is just like straight up I mean, anyone who's listening to this that does not have their own original form of thinking, if you just like think, "Oh, NYU professor, this guy's smart. I need to listen to him." You're probably selling everything you have on Monday. I mean, that's how intense the discussion was from a bearish perspective. And so, I think a hedge is reasonable. I don't think getting out of the markets makes the most sense, but you know, we'll get a lot of data over the next coming weeks and we'll try to understand a lot more to see what happens. That's what we got. That's what we got in the future show. I'll answer some questions and we'll talk about this Bill Aman thing. That was absolutely hilarious. My response to it kind of went viral as well. Even though, dude, as soon as I saw his post, I was like, I know exactly what to say and I knew his post would go viral, so I had to respond to it. But, uh, that's pretty much it. I think the game plan for this week is what data do we get from the BLS? Uh can market stabilize and can we not violate the lows that we had last week 663 on the S&P 500? What happens to Google as the S&P 500 now is going to get a bit of a surge to or potentially get a bit of a surge if Google holds on to this momentum and if you know potentially Google touches 300 Google right here up 6% again 6% on a $3.3 trillion company is a very big move. So that's going to have a big move across the entire market if that holds itself. And then number four, Nvidia earnings. I'll be live with Jose 3:30 p.m. Eastern on Wednesday. That is going to be a massive, massive quarter. Honestly, as someone who made Nvidia one of my top three positions this year, I have zero anxiety going into this earnings because I think they're going to absolutely demolish the quarter. Like, I really don't think this is going to be a quarter where people need to be scared. I'm more concerned about the labor market data because, yeah, I think could Nvidia, you know, end the year at around 210, 220? I think that's possible. I think it's probably going to be there around that 195 205 range and that's bullish you know more conservatively probably in the 180s to 190 range but none of it matters if we are starting to see a deterioration in the labor market so I think Nvidia will be fine every equity analyst report I've read has said Nvidia is going to have a you know blowout quarter and even without China they're going to increase guidance and you're seeing it through Jensen with the $500 billion fivequarter opportunity they talked about at GCC question becomes macro data and the labor market stuff is going to be very very important So, that's what we got going into this uh this quarter. Um, we are not doing a 24-hour stream. Not today. Eventually, dude, eventually we'll do a 24-hour stream. We just got I just got to figure out how to plan how to execute a 24-hour stream. Like, I want to have guests over. I want to make it fun. And uh yeah, right now I got to think about how we do that. But hopefully before the end of the year. Hopefully before the end of the year. Okay. So, what the heck did All right. So, now we're now that's done with the future show. We'll stay on for like another 20 minutes and discuss some of the other fun stuff we got going on. But this tweet, I mean, you guys have tweeted like a billion or said it a billion times in the comments. This tweet was one of the best tweets I've ever seen. So, for those that didn't see the news, Bill Aman, wealthy billionaire hedge fund manager, I hear from many young men that they find it difficult to meet young women in a public setting. In other words, the online culture has destroyed the ability to spontaneously meet strangers. As such, I thought I would share a few words that I used in my youth to meet someone that I found compelling. I would ask, "May I meet you?" before engaging further in a conversation. I almost never got a no. It inevitably enabled the opportunity for a further conversation. I met a lot of really interesting people this way. I think the combination of proper grammar and politeness was the was the key to its effectiveness. You might give it a try. And yes, I think it should work for women seeking men as well as samesex interactions. Just two cents from an older happily married guy concerned about our next generation's happiness and population replacement rates. Look, I don't know if you go up to a girl at a bar and say, "May I meet you?" if that's your ticket to interacting with her a little more, a little more. Maybe it is. Maybe it is. Maybe that's actually effective. But the amount of tweets over the weekend that have been going viral, and Bill Aman's loving this. I mean, he retweeted this. I mean, this was hilarious. You have all these people tweeting out their uh Hinge conversation there. Like there's this guy spamming may I meet you to a ton of different girls and some of the girls actually know about Bill Aman. So they're like oh you're a Bill Aman fan. Like it's actually the funniest [ __ ] ever. And I mean maybe it works. Now what did I post under it? I posted um you know I just I just show them uh my Palenter and hood position and then it's pretty easy from there. That's that's what I said. I don't actually do this. people actually thought it was serious, but it was obviously a joke. Like I don't whip out my portfolio and be like, "Hey, look at like no, that doesn't happen." But like [laughter and gasps] I thought it was kind of funny and like so that you know that was that was my response to it. But no, I just thought it was hilarious, dude. May I meet you? Like really? Like it's the funniest thing ever. And then you have this guy. I mean, look at these videos over the weekend from from him testing this idea.
>> Attention ladies of New York City. May I meet you? Bill Aman just tweeted that simply uttering those words would result in women approaching me, especially on moving trains like this. Should there be a line that forms, please line up single file. Once again, may I meet you?
>> It's hilarious, dude. Like, it's actually freaking hilarious.
>> Hi, excuse me. May I meet you?
>> May I meet you
>> later?
>> Bill,
>> she said later. I'm gonna just pause it because the music might end up copyrighting the stream, but she said later. And he's like, "Okay, I'll meet you later." And he just stands there for 20 seconds. I mean, this [ __ ] is hilarious, dude. May I meet you? That is that is your And then he tweeted this just now. He said, "Feedback from the field, a Stanford underground. I tried may I meet you at a bar last night and it worked wonders. I have a date this Friday. might be the thing that works. It might be the thing that works. So, by the way, Bill Aman sold about 10% of his Google position uh as well. He was one of the only super investors that bought Google heavy back in the 90s. So, um yeah, he did sell a little bit of his Google, but Buffett and Bergkshire ended up buying. [sighs] So, may I meet you, that is the new meme. if you see that around uh over the next coming weeks just notes from Bill Aman and I think it's hilarious and maybe it ends up working for a lot of people but you know he is speaking to something that we are having a broader issue in society which is this idea of of of very less social interaction I mean if you look at the charts on the first of all the most obvious chart on this is is population collapse I mean even it's not in just in Japan and the United States as well like just not having as many people interact with each other anymore for I mean it got to the point where Scott Galloway who I don't agree with him on everything but uh he has been talking about this loneliness epidemic a decent amount and his argument was you should you should uh um you should be okay with ruining your liver and and getting drunk in order to meet somebody and have social interaction because that is what that is what you need to actually you know not be lonely. Here's what he said over the weekend.
>> Thing I love that you said in the book to to men, drink more because safety has, you know, this is one of the problems I have with certain people who make everything about safety. Safety is important. You can't overdo drinking. It is also, as you point out, a lubricant to get to that place where you are talking to other people and socializing. It's not to excess, but yes, it's social. Drinking a little bit, maybe sometimes a little too much when you're adolescent is probably better than sitting in that basement. [applause]
>> The second worst thing to happen to young people is remote work. Uh one in three relationships begin at work. This is where you find friends, mentors, and mates, and especially young men need the guardrails of a workplace. But in my view, the worst thing that's happened to young people is the anti-alcohol movement. I've had Hubberman on who I'm a big fan of and ate on and my point is that the risks to your 25-year-old liver are risk are are dwarfed by the risk of so social isolation in some. Think of all the amazing relationships you've had in your life and be honest. Did alcohol play a role in some. Get out, drink more, and make a series of bad decisions that might pay off.
>> Yes. [applause] [music]
>> I don't know if I fully agree with that. I don't think you have to be drunk to uh meet people. Yeah, mocktails do the job. Mocktails do the job. From personal experience, I can tell. But um his broader argument is just social isolation is a big deal. And so that's why you have Bill Aman tweeting about this stuff because, you know, a lot of the older folks are recognizing how hard it is for younger people to meet and as a result, you know, they are uh encouraging people to just go up and and and talk more with each other, which I think is not horrible advice. I don't know if you have to be drunk to do that, but nonetheless, that's one of the arguments that's taking place. By the way, speaking of uh people meeting up and social interaction, I am working on the New York City meetup and uh I should have an update for you guys in about two weeks and we will be officially starting to promote it. I think first week of December. And we're aiming for, don't hold me to this date. Don't hold me to it, but we're aiming for January 20 5th. It'll be a Sunday, January 25th. So, LA meetup will happen. We're going to do the LA meetup. Singapore meetup's going to happen, but we're doing New York first starting off in January. And I think it's going to be really cool. And there's going to be a lot of different ideas we have, and I'm working with a team to actually finalize it and make it real. There will be a ticket. So, you will have to pay a ticket. The reason for the ticket is number one, we're renting out a venue. And venues on average are about 10 to 12,000. So, that's the first thing. Number two, we are hiring a [ __ ] ton of security. So, that's another reason why we have to charge for a ticket because we are making sure that this is as safe as an event as it can become. And number three, you're going to get food. So, there will be a ticket. I think the max price of the ticket is going to be $100. So, it's not going to be something too intense, but this is not $100 where there's like a 40% profit margin here. This is actual expenses that we are now incurring on starting these meetups. And the reason for these expenses, again, when I started this back in January, it was like calling up a local bar and like saying, "Hey, can a bunch of people come over?" And they have like no idea what they're like, "Sure, if they're going to buy drinks." It was very informal. And after Miami, there's like 350 people there. I was like, "Okay, we got to formalize this a lot more if we're going to, you know, have that many people." So, there will be a ticket price, but I do think the ticket will be well worth it. And this is not a ticket that leads to a ton of profit for me as an individual. Now, maybe in the future, you know, if we start selling out like 5,000 people arenas and we do live shows, like that's going to be a lot more profitable if that ever does happen. But right now, we're going to be running this basically at cost and food, security, and venue are our biggest three costs. Um, and it's expensive. You know, with the team I've been working with, we looked at a lot of We think we have New York confirmed. It's a really nice spot. I don't want to say the name the location yet, but it's going to be like 15 grand just to have like six, seven hours of the place and we're trying to negotiate another two hours, right? So, like this stuff's expensive at the end of the day if you're booking venues, but it's worth it for the experience. Just I think if you've been to the meetup over the past five meetups we've done, it really is worth it. So, we're going to try to make it a a good deal for everybody. So, it should be fun. But New York definitely in January. Um I don't know what February looks like. I want to say LA in February, but we haven't done that much thinking of the second meetup. But definitely LA is going to happen. We did the Bay Area last time, so we got to do SoCal. And then did I say 67 again somehow? Did I really say 67 again sometimes? Uh and then and then Singapore is the international one and then obviously the UK. Those are like really really important venues that we want to do, but we're trying to just get through the first one. And this is a new team I'm working with. So, you know, we have a really good vibes. We've been having meetings every Saturday. And like I'm and like again I told you about this this girl who started her own management agency and I met her through one of the guys in Miami and like you know she it looks like she's going to be coming on full-time to work with me. But um dude she's just an animal like like the fact that she freaking she like she has a venue. I mean she had to she had to run through a lot of different venues to like find the one spot. But like the fact that she found it and she's like they are ready to go. We just need a deposit. I'm like wow. because like I know how hard it was to search for venues when I was doing the meetups by myself and I got lucky a a good chunk of times. The Boston one was the hardest one to plan. New York ended up being relatively lucky after the second bar because the first bar was too small, but then we all walked to the second bar and like it we literally just winged it. Uh and then California I got lucky because I knew the bar owner. But it's not easy getting a venue and quite frankly you just got to be able to pay up to like book these spots. But you know, if you can formalize it, then it can be done in a decent way. [laughter] I will I will meet you all at these meetups. She's not a dentist. She's not a freaking dentist. Dude, may I meet you is going to be the catchphrase of 2026. I really do think that like the amount of times people are just going to say that randomly. Neb's right there up 5%. Google up 6.5.
>> The meetups everyone's gonna say everyone's going to be saying, "May I meet you? It'll be hilarious. Yeah. See, look. Are you going to call these meetups a meetups or may I admit you? It's hilarious. But I'm excited for them. I'm excited for them. I think it'll be fun. I think $100 is relatively cheap. Again, we're doing them at cost. There's really not a margin here. Um, and I think we're going to cap it at 300 people because I So, you know, the the cost to throw on the event is around about 30,000. 300 times 100. So, also I think above 300 like Miami just became really intense. So, I think 300 is going to be the most. But, uh, if people are thinking of making a trip to New York, if you're flying in or you want to make a weekend out of it, January 25th, that is the tenative date. Do not buy your ticket yet until I give the official date, which will probably happen early December, but I think it'll be fun. Now look, if we end up uh getting into a bare market, you know, this is one of the questions I was I was talking about with with um with the team that's planning this is like, do we still think there is demand for a meetup in a bare market? And I think there is, right? Like even if the markets are down, I think that sense of community is still really important regardless, right? So like, yeah, the sentiment is not going to be as optimistic if we're in a bare market, but the necessity for community and being able to still talk with people about investing, I think, is still very real. In fact, you might need uh more people or more levels of community in a bare market. So, I hope 2026 is not bearish, but even if it goes bearish, I think the meetup still should have demand just because all of us still want to meet in the midst of markets going up or down. People will buy more drinks. Yes, exactly. Exactly. But yeah, uh New York should be fun, should be exciting, and I think it'll be cool. The May I meet up 2026. Dude, I need to use this May I meet you line. Like this thing is hilarious. Like it's absolutely incredible. I was like I was I was literally reading I I read I think I I read the tweet that Bill Aman had two minutes after he posted it. It popped up and immediately I was like I have to comment under this. I was like this tweet is going to go viral. Like you just know sometimes as a content creator that a tweet's going to hit. This tweet has 16 million views. Boy is it hitting. Especially because one side of the aisle is like this is so stupid. You go up to a girl and say, "May I meet you?" she's going to laugh at you. And the other side of it, it's like, well, maybe maybe it's just like cringe enough to work. Like maybe it's just like instead of, hey, can I buy you a drink? It's like, hey, may I meet you? Like it's so like it it almost gets a sort of a a humorous reaction that it ends up turning into a conversation and then boom, you get into it. So, I think I think that was relatively hilarious. Nvidia is the only one that has earnings this week. I mean there are some other companies but Nvidia is the main one. We have well actually no you have more. So you have uh Home Depot by Tuesday. Tomorrow you have Xpang that Chinese company uh with robots and cars. And then on the 19th you have Nvidia and PaloAlto after hours. In the morning you have Lowe's, TJX, Target uh and then William Sonoma. And then Thursday you have Walmart before the market open and then um then you have Weeble into into it after hours. So, Nvidia is obviously the big one, but you do have some some other earnings. Siege, thanks for the super chat. I've got I've got to be hammer drunk just to share my pickup lines with you. Maybe at the next meet up. Oh my gosh, Siege, I hope to see you in New York if you can make it. It'll be fun. I'm going to try to get some of the mods out there as well. So, a lot of the mods you guys know in the chat, like Doug and Tess and all these folks, I'm going to try to see if we can budget getting them out because again, I said in Miami, it was just so awesome having them there. And like Matt Money, like just having people that you guys know in the hopefully we can get Steve to come. If Steve comes, if Steve shows up to this event, oh my god, I don't know if we're going to have enough uh ticket supply once I say Steve's coming. But, uh, I'm going to try to get those people out to the event as well and make sure that they're there because, you know, it's just more fun when you have a lot more of the community there. So, that will be the goal for the New York meetup and we're going to see if we can make it happen. Test will be at the D-Wave conference. Wow, they're doing a conference in January. Okay. All right. Testament might not make this one, but uh we have like 10 15 mods, so we'll try to see if at least like four or five of them can come to each meetup and we can get people there. Get a milk sponsor. Yeah, we got to get Ronnie Brook Farms to sponsor this [ __ ] Dude, I can just imagine Steve and like 50 people like crowding him just like wanting to talk to like that. Steve will be like the star of the show. Absolutely will be the star of the show. Like I know everyone's just going to want to beat him. Nebius needs to pump to 100 so I can sell and buy your T. Yeah, dude. I I really don't want to charge for this, but after like actually talking with the team of people, there's no way I can get away with not charging. I mean, the first five meetups we didn't charge anything, but when you're renting out a venue like and you want security and like you know, I think security is a very important thing just to make sure that everything's good and you know, you have things that in case anything were to happen, you have people there. Like that's those are expenses that are just like necessary. And so it's hard to eat the bill on like 30 grand, but you know, if 300 people pay 100 bucks, I don't think it's the biggest thing in the world. And you know, it gives us the scale to be able to do this across the world. So I think it will be I think it'll be fun. M, how old are you? I am 28 years old. Um, not being able to buy Netflix on Robin Hood right now. Must be getting ready for the split. Yeah, the split happens tomorrow. So, more likely than not, you're not going to be able to to buy this one. [laughter] [gasps] Oh my goodness, dude. We need We should get a cow. Yeah, Netflix is unavailable to trade on Robin. We need a cow. We need like a like a inflatable cow to be there if Steve comes. It'll be hilarious. Yeah, we need instead of a bar, we need a dairy counter. Exactly. Exactly. Yes, Chris, of course, will be my The problem with Chris is that it's he's in Georgia, right? And he works. So, I'm gonna try to get Chris out there. It'd be fun. Chris has not been to a meetup yet. He's um he was supposed to go to the Miami one, but then he had a wedding that he had to go to. So, it'd be very fun if we can get Chris and all the boys out there. We did Toronto last year. We'll see if we can do it again. Uh Toronto was fun. I enjoyed it. But uh you know now that we now look again Toronto I did in a guy's basement in a luxury apartment building like through connections from the chat like we like absolutely like winging it for those meetups the first five ones we did and they all went great but I'm like legit we were like buying pizza near this the near his apartment for food for people you know it's just like fullon like bottoms up like just you know winging it and uh Now I think institutionalizing and formalizing the process just makes so much more sense especially if you know if you if you want to do it in a more profound way. So I think it'll be fun but it'll be exciting to uh to get on this venture for next year. Mid do your neighbors hate you because they hear you talking for a camera for seven hours a day? I don't think so. I I think I think the walls are relatively soundproof. You know, I've never gotten a complaint for ringing the bell or or talking. Um, so no, I don't think they they care. Maybe they do, but they just live with it. That's what we got to do every morning and afternoon. This is what we do. Steve had an absolute crazy rant against Apple today. I mean, you know, quite frankly, for anyone who's watched the old debates with Steve and I over the past like year, I mean, I've been making the argument that Apple is kind of ridiculous in terms of their innovation. And I think something he saw over the weekend really got him pissed off. I think uh Teavis showed him the uh the thing we talked about on Friday and it it's forced him to write a freaking article about how mad he is. He saw this the iPhone pocket basically a a fanny pack for your iPhone. He just went scorched earth on Apple and it's like look but by the way during this entire debate that we've been having for the past year Apple has not done horrible like Apple's not obviously done as well as like Nvidia or something but it's not done horrible. So if you own the stock you've been okay but just like the anger of investors that this is what they're doing. By the way Tim Cook's about to step down. The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that it looks like he's getting ready to step down early 2026. But this [ __ ] come on bro. Like really? They're charging $229 for this [ __ ] And Steve said if I ever wear this in front of him, he's going to like throw my iPhone away. So obviously I need to buy one of these and wear it next time I see him. You got to do it for the jokes. But it is weird, dude. That That's It's a sock. It's a sock for your iPhone. He finally admitted today, too, that the Vision Pro is a failure. I got a lot of [ __ ] in 2023. As soon as it came out, I was like, "That shit's a failure." I was like, "Nope, it's not going to work." I know I'm biased because I don't like the AI glasses argument. Yes, I know I wear glasses. That doesn't mean I have to love the whole concept of AI glasses. I really don't think that thing is going to work out for Meta Apple. I think all of that [ __ ] is just not real. I don't think people are going to wear AI glasses and like communicate with seeing stuff on their screen. I just don't think it's going to happen. And I remember the narrative in 2023 was that's the next thing. And I was like, "No, it can't be the next thing, dude. It just can't. No one's going to wear that [ __ ] on their face. like it's just like for extended everyone who's bought it. It's like it's collecting dust now. I was even thinking of buying it, dude. I was thinking of spending 3500, but I was like, dude, am I ever going to really use this? And it's like, no. Yeah. On Finance Junkies, me and Carlos got into so many debates about this. And Carlos ended up buying it. And I remember two weeks later, I saw it in the back of his screen. I was like, Carlos, have you used it in the past two weeks? He was like, no. But I was like, come on, bro. Like, it's a dud. We know it's a Doug.
>> Vitali says he still uses his. I mean, maybe he does. Now, for gaming, I think there's a use case, right? That for the Quest. I mean, I know Vital's kids love using it for their games as well. When I went over to his house, his kids like were just obsessed with that thing. But I think if you're not a kid and you're not using for gaming, there's no use case. So, I really don't know if it's going to be like the next big thing. Now, granted, if anyone can make it a thing, I think it would be Apple. I don't think it's meta, quite frankly. But it's going to be up to Tim Cook's successor to figure that out. So, I think that's what we got going on. Do we have any other headlines? I don't think we have anything else too crazy. I'm just hoping, dude, I'm just like the amount of emotions we all have to deal with last week. It was just so annoying back and forth. So much [ __ ] that the markets put us through. And you know, it's the [ __ ] you have to deal with. But I really do hope this end of year rally is possible. The one saving grace is first of all, Nvidia is going to have good earnings. So I'm not afraid about Nvidia. It's the labor market data being bad which will end up being good for the rate cut. And that potentially is going to be the uh hay in the needle stack because what that's going to do is that's going to say, okay, labor market's not good. So, we can cut rates, which is good for equity prices, but then if the labor market ends up becoming not that bad in 26, which I'm just hoping for. I don't know if that's going to be the case. Then then you're going to have equity prices stabilize. You're going to have rate cuts that are going to be more bullish. JPAL's going to leave in May. You're going to have a lot more rate cuts then. And if we have some level of healthy GDP growth, then I think 2026 will be okay. The other freaking thing we have to deal with is this stupid shutdown is going to happen again on January 30th, which is another reason I'm thinking like having some hedges going into 2026 is not crazy because that first month, first of all, people already sell stuff in January historically because um people don't want to take profits in December because then it ends up being shown on their taxes for the next year. So you have that as a natural sell-off that'll happen and then if the shutdown nonsense happens again and you know we can't agree on healthcare in this country. I mean who knows if it lasts more than 40 days. So I think there are two very obvious things in January that could be bearish but hopefully that doesn't stop the uh the end of your run if there is one. Yes, it is hay in the needle sack. You guys have been uh served corporate propaganda over years carrying needle in the haystack. First of all, it's harder to find just think of it logically, guys. Like just like like like 2 plus two equals four, right? It is harder to find a hay a piece of hay in a needle stack versus a needle in a hay stack. So theoretically, like the metaphor makes sense and I don't understand why people think that the metaphor doesn't make sense. I don't know what to tell you guys. That's what it is. It would be simple to see a piece of hay in a stack of needles. [gasps] Oh my gosh. Mathematically, he's right. Yes, exactly. What did you guys vote for? Red or green tomorrow? What did you guys vote? Do you guys hear the sirens, bro? There are so many police every day. Like, you know, there was I'm not making an excuse for myself, but one time I was about to go live and it was like 8:45 or No, it was 3:45. It was market close and I waited till 3:47 because the sirens were going off for 2 minutes and I knew that you wouldn't even be able to like really hear me speak and so I ended up taking the shots for being late, but like the sirens are ridiculous here. Sometimes I feel like I'm living in New York sometimes. Um, what did you guys say? Uh 68% green. Okay. 60. They're looking for Tom Lee. Oh my gosh. 68% green. Dude, I like it. Look, at the end of the day, this is like this is the game, right? In content creation in the finance space. Ultimately, you put out your thoughts, your ideas, and hopefully you're more right than wrong, right? And that's how you develop an audience over the long term. Um, and if you don't really necessarily take positions or like like have opinions, then you can you can still be good at presenting ideas. Uh, but at the end of the day, I think you have to have an opinion, right? Otherwise, like what's the point of like like you got to have some level of perspective on the markets. And unfortunately, BMR is down 50%. And a lot of people bought that thing around 50 to 60. Now, my adjusted cost basis is $35 on that thing. my actual cost basis is like 42. So that that my first entry was 49 but my like significant entry was 40 to 42 and that's how I got the average to get down. So then the question then becomes like you know how down are the people that ended up buying it at that 160 crazy run that it had. There were tons of people that bought it that day then 70 then 80 and then obviously it stayed at 1560 for a long time. I didn't sell any of 50 to 60. I was very happy with the position and you know then the position ended up just completely getting hit. So the question now becomes like does it even recover by the end of the year? And this whole, you know, 9,000 Ethereum by end of year, I mean, if it happens, I'll be very happy, but it seems very unlikely to happen. I mean, even getting this thing back up to 4,000 is going to be a challenge. And so, undoubtedly, you're going to have people that are super pissed off at Tom because this is his stock. This is his uh thing that he's been talking about for a long time. And you know, it is what it is. Now, as a public figure, you have to be able to live with those shots and you have to be able to deal with the pain because that's how you make a name for yourself, right? A lot of people laughed at Tom Lee when he said, "Buy Bitcoin at 5,000." But in the short term, you know, ETH long term, I think, will be good. In the short term, it's ugly. And in the short term, the internet's nasty, dude. the amount of nasty comments I've seen against Tom, like it is what it and you know, and a lot of people, you know, they they tend to blame someone else when they make a purchase and that purchase ends up going against them. And they just need someone to blame. And I'm the same as well, you know, like it's always like nice to take shots at someone and they're they're the reason you made a mistake, not yourself. But at the end of the day, like if I do it, it's more in in a in a humorous way. At the end of the day, everyone needs to take responsibility on the things they buy, whether they go up or down. But Tom Lee has a cult. You know, there there's an absolute cult around that guy. So when he says something, people will do it. And unfortunately, a lot of people bought BMR without having any idea what they were buying into for the long term. And quite frankly, even if they did have an idea, a stock getting chopped 50% in, you know, in half by in in a freaking two months, it'll hurt anybody and it'll make them upset. So time will tell to see what happens with Bitmine. I think long term ETH will be fine, but obviously shortterm it's ugly and you know if the Fed doesn't cut rates, it's not going to help ETH or Bitcoin. And those are two things that we definitely need to see play out to help the broader argument. Thailand third quarter GDP is up 1.2%. Okay, that's not too bad. Japan's was red or Japan's was contracting GDP, but Thailand being up is not horrible. Why are institutions still buying? That's a good question. In fact, I forgot to show that chart. I wanted to show that right here. So, thank you for that. Um, also, let me show you this chart right here. Gold is up 55% this year. Bitcoin is up 1%. We haven't seen this since 2013. So, quite incredible to see the inverse between gold and uh and Bitcoin. Now, in terms of institutions buying, I think the reason they're buying is because well, two things. Number one, I think there's that kind of end of your chase that Tom's been talking about. uh as fund managers have to like be able to perform. But number two is because at the end of the day, they want exposure to the market and you know when you get Meta trading at 20 times earnings, you're going to get people that manage money that say, "Hey, it's time to to buy." So take a look at this. Institutional investors bought US equities in 60% of S&P 500 declines of at least negative 1% this year. This marks the first time since 2019 that institutional investors percentage has exceeded 50 points. Uh they have been dip buyers in five out of the last 18 years. This is one of those five years. Retail investors bought the dip each week this year after the S&P 500 declined over 1% every single week. This is the sixth consecutive year with their percentage above 50. Hedge funds have not exceeded this mark since 2019. So hedge funds have been selling. In fact, retail were net sellers two weeks ago. institutional investors, which some institutional investors are, a hedge fund can be an institution, but obviously hedge funds are more actively trading and managing and hedging. Institutional investors kind of have more of a strategic long-term strategy, right? They might go short, they might hedge, but they're, you know, generally more long. Uh they are they're the ones that are buying. So I think it's not crazy that you know this this rally has has room to happen towards the end of the year but you need those broader institutional investors to continue believing that the market deserves the premium that you're paying. Look at the end of the day we're paying 23 times for the S&P 500. I mean historically it's 17 to 18 times. So the question is does the the amount of earnings expansion and AI and margin all that stuff does that justify paying more for the S&P 500 and when you really think of it like by first principles I think the answer is yes because you know from a first principles perspective if the ROI on all of that is real and we've seen that with earnings growth it's not like that's fake by the way I wanted to play one clip for you guys as well from another fund manager called Gavin Baker if we're seeing that you can't necessarily say it's fake the question is to what extent does that increase in 26 and 226 is still estimating double digit earnings growth which we would have for two years in a row if we actually end up doing that for 26. Uh that to me is why you pay a higher premium but you know the market has to ultimately think of that as well. I don't know why Soft Bank's up 37%. They were up on Friday after hours. I don't know why this thing is up 37%. Like I have no clue but yeah it is up the Soft Bank did sell their entire Nvidia ST. Ask Peter Teal also sold his Nvidia for those that are asking. He bought Apple and Microsoft sold Nvidia and so does Soft. Someone said amid have you ever shorted something you loved? I've never shorted a stock that I own. I do think in 2026 like I have a big Nvidia position. Buying puts on Nvidia is not crazy and that doesn't mean you're bearish Nvidia. That means you want to literally do what a put is supposed to do is buy insurance for your position. So, I'm actively thinking of whether it's through covered calls or puts kind of how to hedge to some of the downside paid in 2026. But look, I think if you have a lot of money in a position, it's worth investing because like, you know, if you have a million- dollar position and you take a $50,000 put position, like instead of that million, you know, getting hit badly, it'll still get hit. And given hopefully your average is reasonable enough, you're not going to be losing uh actual money. You'll just be losing paper gains. But if that could be hedged to an extent to offset some of the losses, not all the losses unless you know you you develop the trade in a certain type of way, then I don't think that's horrible. Especially after uh three years of a just pureon run, right? All these stocks are not 2023 dirt cheap anymore. They run for three years, all of them. And so if they were to take a breather in 26, I wouldn't surprise anybody. So I think happens in puts there is is not that crazy especially on some of the more you know aggressive volatile names. Suchin what's up? I see you in the chat bro. Suchin uh your boy Tanner uh he bought PayPal. You guys know Suchin is developing a a pretty large PayPal position as well. Tanner on Friday he was on the show on the close and he said that he's buying PayPal. I don't think it's crazy, dude. 62 bucks. They're buying back 10% of the company. Like, I haven't made a decision if I want to buy some. But I mean, you're talking about something that's safe in 26 now. Maybe PayPal's not safe. Maybe it's going to be crap in 26. But it's down 30% on the year. Like, is it really going to go down to 40 bucks next? Like, at the end of the day, someone's got to step in, right? So, I don't hate the trade. I do not hate the trade for PayPal. And you know if it gets anywhere near that 55 level, I think it becomes very attractive. But question also is the opportunity cost. If we have a full-on bull run in 26 and then which by the way, there's a lot of people doubting that bull run in 26, which is also good because if that many people are doubting it, you know, maybe you have a lot more walls of worry that allows us to run. I mean, again, the amount of freaking bubble conversation I heard over the weekend, it even shocked me, dude. Like I know people were talking about bubble, but like this is like becoming a legit. You're talking about news channels that don't even focus on stocks. They focus on politics and they're talking about the bubble. Like it's almost an inevitable thing that we are in an AI bubble. And then, you know, Steve had a great post on X last night. I I'll link it right here. I recommend people reading it. You know, Steve is pretty rational and he looks at the numbers and when you go through all the numbers that he laid out in this post, it's like, where the hell do we see a bubble? Like, what are we talking about right there? It seems hard to say that it's a bubble. Here's another argument why it's not a bubble. Here, here's Gavin Baker, who was one of the investors back in um the do- bubble. He now manages a fund. He was early Nvidia, early Tesla. Uh here is his argument on why we might not easily be in a bubble. Daily earnings, Nvidia is at more like 40 times. So, valuations are very differently. Very different. Most important however Cisco peaked at 150 or 180 times trailing earnings. Nvidia is at more like 40 times. So valuations are very differently very different. Most important however is that the year 2000 internet bubble or telecom bubble was defined by something called dark fiber. Um and [clears throat] if you're a veteran of of the year 2000 you'll know what that was. But dark fiber was literally fiber that was laid down in the ground and not lit up. Fiber is useless unless you have the optics and switches and routers uh that you need on either side. Um you so I vividly remember, you know, companies like Level 3 or Global Crossing or WorldCom would come in and they say, "We laid 200,000 miles of dark fiber this quarter. This is so amazing. The internet's going to be so big. Um you know, we can't wait to light these up." At the peak of the bubble, 97% of the fiber that had been laid in America was dark. Contrast that with today. There are no dark GPUs. All you have to do is read any technical paper and that one of the biggest problems in a trading run is that GPUs are melting. And there's
>> this was a really compelling point to me because every person you listen to, every earnings we see, there's not enough GPUs. I mean, Nvidia is literally pressuring TSMC to increase the wafer uh capacity by 50% because their month- over-month demand is exceeding the amount of supply that they have. So, I mean, there is a reasonable argument to say the.com bubble with all this dark fiber never ended up being used, which is what inevitably caused a lot more companies to crash. And I know there's more nuance to it, but that was a big part of it. In this part of a technological revolution, every GPU companies can get their hands on, they are using, which means there is a reason for why they're buying them in the first place. A very simple way to kind of cut to the heart of all of this, it is the return on invested capital of the biggest spenders on GPUs who are all public. And those companies since they ramped up capex have seen call it a 10point increase in their ROIC's. So, thus far, the ROI on all the spending has been really positive. It's a really it's an interesting and open debate about whether or not it will continue to be positive with the quantum of spend we're going to have on Blackwell. I personally think it will, but there's no debate that thus far the ROI on AI has been really positive and valuation wise. We're just not in a bubble.
>> I couldn't agree more. You got a lot of people that disagree, but um I do think those arguments make sense. Figma's down 55% from its all-time high. How is that a bubble, right? [laughter] You got a lot of the like like Figma is a great company and you know, I think if you know, they fall another 10%, they actually become a lot more compelling valuation wise. They're actually trading at 20 billion right now, which is what Adobe tried to buy them out for a couple years. But like Figma down 55%. That doesn't scream bubble to me. Oaklo from 193 to 95. I mean, I think Oakland is still pretty expensive, but it's not like it's at 193 crazy $40 billion company with no revenue. So, I I just think the bubble argument is I don't know. Obviously, we could all be wrong and this could all be some gigantic Ponzi scheme that we're entering into, but it doesn't feel like that given the ROIC argument he talks about. The the biggest indicator of what could inevitably be some collapse of a bubble, and I keep going back to this because I mean I think we cannot be ignorant to this, is open AI. If OpenAI isn't good for the 1.4 trillion that they've contracted for, I think a lot of these stocks are going to get hit pretty bad. And again, I love everyone who's in AMD, but the only reason AMD is up from 150, it has nothing to do with the earnings. It's the open AI deal. I mean, look at that chart when they announced the OpenAI deal and look at it before. If Sam Alman doesn't say we're going to give Lisa Sue a hundred billion and then get 10% of the company at a $600 price which implies a trillion dollars, I don't think you have that stock really make a move. Now the investor day even without the opening eye news was really bullish and I think opening I pro or AMD stock is probably up higher from like 150 at the lows but I don't know if it's pushing 250 and the the comparable here is Oracle. Oracle freaking was 220 open deal 350. The problem is Oracle then said, "Hey, 40 billion of debt. Are we willing to buy?" And the market was like, "We are selling this stock so quick because we have no intentions to stick around for some uh bond defaults that are going to happen." AMD did not say we're going to issue 40 billion of debt after their stock price went up a hundred billion dollars in market cap. And so the markets, you know, have been relatively calm. And obviously AMD is growing faster than Oracle. And you know, you could say that they're more critical layer of the chip infrastructure, given they're actually selling the chips, not just selling the compute layer, which theoretically could be done by other players outside of Oracle. Um, and that's why AMD kept its gains, but at its core, it's because of that OpenAI deal. Broadcom had a $50 billion deal, or I think it was a like a five to seven gigawatt deal with OpenAI a couple weeks ago as well. So, I think the biggest risk is OpenAI isn't good for the money, which means OpenAI doesn't end up growing. And that's why I think it's very important for all of us to keep an eye on OpenAI. Now look, if OpenAI ends up failing, does that mean the LLM AI thing is over? No, because there will be other companies that that take the role of that. But that hundred billion that Lisa Sue was supposed to collect, that goes away. 300 billion Larry Ellison was supposed to collect, that goes away. 70 billion Broadcom was supposed to collect, that goes away. And so I do think that OpenAI is going to be one of the most important companies of really the next couple decades. And it's nice to see Brad Gersonner and Jensen and a lot of these people cosign OpenAI. You know, I would hope that Gersonner is not co-signing a bubble or Jensen, you know, um there's a lot of very very very smart private investors that are in OpenAI. I mean, like you would imagine that that company is going to be able to grow, but that to me is the the larger risk, not like that there's not an actual use case for AI. So, that's going to be important. Lisa Sue said to expect deals as big as the opening ideal on analyst date. Now, see, that's also important. I remember that Lisa Sue said that. It's good you're bringing up that quote because if Lisa Sue and Nvidia and Broadcom can get like a deal like that with Anthropic for example or even with Google, I mean then you you continue to valid I think we've already validated the amount of capex spend that's happening. Again, I showed that chart of Elon and Sundar going back and forth like it's very real the way the smartest people in the world are talking about it. But if they can consign even more of those deals worth hundreds of billions of dollars for compute, first of all, super bullish for the Nebuses, Iran, all those data center players because there's going to be so many trillions in the system that are inevitably going to flow to the core weaves of the world even if they have to take on a lot of debt. But number two, it will validate that it's not just open AI that's spending these crazy trillions of dollars on compute. It's also anthropic. It's also meta with Llama. It's also Google with Gemini. I'd say it's also with maybe the Chinese companies, even if it's not in Nvidia and AMD, but in their own way to be able to to generate the infrastructure ne that's necessary for the amount of capex spend that we need. So more and more of these deals I think are going to be very important. The other stat I saw over the weekend was that uh GDP GDP spend as a percentage GDP as a percentage of capex over the past three years, two and a half years, 50%. [laughter] meaning if we didn't have this capex boom on AI, the US would be in a recession by now because we just we would have negative quarters of GDP growth. Now that's not controversial to say because obviously every time we have this massive stock market run, massive GDP run, you have a huge level of industrial uh investment and with capex you have data centers, electricity, construction, buildings, all this stuff like it creates jobs and there's a lot of different good things that happens because of it. But if we didn't have that over the past three years, there would be no real economic story other than maybe like 0.5% GDP growth quarter over quarter. So AI has been everything. As long as that continues, then that's going to be really important. When is the Singapore meet up? Likely in July. Likely in July. Again, I will give you guys more details over the coming months. Um New York, January 25th. Don't hold me to it. I will let you know officially in December. Uh likely the first week of December, but yeah, we are aiming for January 25th. It's it's going to be like a brunch. It's going to be it's a really cool spot. So, you you there will be food included. It'll be like a brunch, but it'll be it's it's a really dope location. Like like you can see the entire Time Square from the view, and it's like it's a really it's a dope dope spot. So once we finalize the location, uh I will put out all the details. Are we gonna do Chicago, baby? I got to figure it out, dude. I know for sure London, Singapore, LA, and New York. Those like we have to do those four because I promise those four. But the other ones we got to figure out. Hopefully we can do Chicago. It's going to be once a month. We're going to try to do once a month. So 12 for the year. Yes, there will be mimosas at brunch. It'll be fun. It'll be going and so I'll get it finalized and let you guys know in a couple weeks, but um yeah, we're making a website for it. All this stuff. We're just trying to really formalize it because dude, I was managing this through Google forms. It wasn't I don't know how I managed them. My there were people on the like the the like two days before that didn't get the location. I was like, how did you not get the location? I was like and it was probably my fault because I didn't send it to them. So, we just we really need some structure in this, but I think it'll be fun. May, why do you want to do NYC in the winter? Well, first of all, I want the first meetup. I want it to be easy to do, and the easiest thing to do is, you know, where I'm closest to. So, New York is what I'm closest to. Um, number two, it's New York in the winter. Dude, New York in the winter is great. New York in the winter is beautiful. Wait, Doug, you and Matt got to come see. Matt, I think Matt said he'd never seen um uh Christmas in New York. Like Christmas in New York is special. Got the tree going up. You got the lights. So, that's why we got to do that. It does get cold though. It does get cold. It's It's not a design agency. It's like a man. It's It's not even an agency, dude. It's It's a girl who is leaving an agency that she worked at for 10 years, a talent agency. and I met her based on someone that I met in Miami that I became good friends with and um he's had a lot of experience in in event planning for the past 40 years. So, um you know, he has a lot of hookups to security and all this stuff. So, like I think it's a really good group of people. We're just trying to finalize everything. And you know, her work ethic is crazy, dude. Like the [ __ ] she's done in the past two weeks, it's like goodness, bro. It's a lot of work. She's not even I haven't even paid her yet. Like, we haven't even signed a contract. So fact that she's working so hard is is quite incredible. But yeah, should be doing New York and uh it'll be January. All right. Yes. Well, Desi, we'll do Miami again for sure. It'll be a fun one. We'll definitely have to do Miami again. Hopefully. Uh oh. Well, we I mean hopefully we Yeah, we should try to do Miami in like March so we don't have to freaking uh freaking do it when it's super hot in August this time. It'll be fun. All right, cool. So, I think that's it. Um I'll see you guys in the morning. Um yeah, I hope this week is good and bullish. And we got Nvidia earnings. You got Trump tweeting about Epstein again. It's a long ass tweet. I'm not reading this. I'm literally looking at on my screen. It's like looks like it's like 15 sentences, but basically he's saying uh Epstein is a trap and uh don't trust the Democrats. That's what I'm getting from all these big words. So, that's what you got. Um the Epstein stuff, I mean, we'll see how that plays out. There's going to be a vote, I think, next week or this week on releasing the Epstein files. So, I mean, I don't know how that's going to work, but that might also be something that we're going to have to keep an eye on. Oh, yes. Let's spam Steve. Okay, we got to spam him. All right, so what do we spam Steve with? It's got to be something good. Aids Grinder bio. May I meet you? See, I hate you guys. I absolutely hate you guys. I gotta try this May I meet you thing, though. I'm kind of liking it. Kind of cool. Like, we got to try it. There's been a lot of girls though who have like commented on it and they're like if any guy ever says this to me and I'm like but I think I think there's something uh unique about may I meet you. There's something about it, dude. Like imagine you find your wife by saying may I meet you. Some guy tweeted at Billman. They were like uh I said can I meet you and I got rejected. He was like dude you have to say may not can. I was like, "He's right." Desi says, "I kind of like it, dude." Just like imagine going up to I think I think I think you have to have a certain level of confidence in general when you go up to a stranger, whether you're a girl or a guy. Um, but then if you if you if you have that level of confidence and then you hit it with a may I meet you? I don't know, dude. I think Aman's on to something. I think Aman is on to something. All right. What do we What do we spam Steve with? What are they talking about? stream. When you add all of this up, I am telling everybody the amount of product that is going to be on the market in the future is going to be significantly less.
>> Okay, so they're talking about Pokemon. Do we do the uh the Apple Oh, may I meet you? Oh, that might be it. Or Okay, he's really pissed off about Apple. He's really pissed off about Apple. Apple. Apple to the moon. Apple 300. Guys, May I Meet You I feel like is It's fun, but it's not as fun as pissing him off about Apple. What about [sighs] Apple's cheap? Is that enough? Apple's cheap. What do we think, bro? What do we think? We need a good one. Apple ch too cheap. I think I think Apple 350 or Apple 300. Apple with a uh with a I think just this. Oh, would rather buy Apple. Oh, no, no, no. Let's do that. Apple Pokemon with the greater than sign. Apple Pokemon. That's it. That's it. All right. That's the one. Apple Pokemon. Let's do it. That's the one. That'll get him good. That will get him good. There it is. That's the one. That's the one. That's what we got to do. All right. [laughter] Let's see if he actually reacts to it quick enough. Sports cards. I think it's TCG. Not necessarily comic books, but these things I think are going to have a lot of staying power. What I am seeing at the conventions and the shows is just a ton of liquidity and the numbers just work.
>> I mean, it's everything. I know. I love it.
>> Look at the chat. And you know, this is all a myth. This is all a dude because I went on a freaking Apple rant.
>> There he is. [laughter]
>> No. Um, that's so funny.
>> Oh my god. with the stupid [ __ ] [laughter] pocket for the [ __ ] iPhone. It annoys the [ __ ] out of me, [snorts]
>> dude. That's so
>> He's gonna buy one, too. I know he's going to buy one.
>> Of course I am.
>> Hey, hey, I'm gonna I'm gonna make a very angry right now. I have never owned an iPhone in my life.
>> That won't make him angry.
>> Oh, I've actually never owned an iPhone, man. I I' I've had a I I've had Android since the beginning, basically. Yeah, same with my wife. My wife has an Android. I have an iPhone.
>> But yeah, man. Like all those those different like
>> Apple over Pokemon, baby. I'm seeing Steve next week for dinner, so I think I got to get this uh this freaking this fanny pack or whatever. All right, guys. That's it. Thank you everybody for being here. Alexis, thank you for becoming a channel member. Appreciate you being here, man. And thank you all for continuing uh to be here every single day. We'll be back tomorrow morning. Substack's going to be um posting a lot more. I have a lot of ideas for Substack and so uh I'll have a post out tomorrow. Not the deep dives, but kind of a deep dive on like an economic topic, not just the company. Uh the company deep dives. I think we'll be back next week. But uh we'll be having a lot more content on Substack this week. been planning a lot of stuff, been compiling a lot of data, and hopefully we'll be able to get some other perspectives out there as we get into the end of the year. So, that's it. Thank you. Also, I mean, I'm just just personal update, dude. I am uh I'm really killing it at the gym. Ju like I am really getting my vibe back in the gym. I've worked out four out of the past seven days. I'm starting to like running again. If you guys were watching in 2023, I would burn a thousand calories on the treadmill like easy, like within less than an hour. Not back to that level yet, but when I was running yesterday, like it felt good. Like I wasn't like like like dude like even to burn 200 calories, run like a mile and a half a couple weeks ago is just like huffing and puffing. I can't get there. Yesterday I was like [ __ ] dude running two miles was like nothing. Like literally nothing. And so I'm feeling really good just like health-wise. And uh I'm already seeing a reduction in weight which is good. Down about four pounds. A lot of that's water weight but like you know just getting the weight off. I think is very very important because like I should not be weighing what I weigh right now and I think by end of year and I think quite frankly I'm going to be losing a lot more weight rather easily because there's so much excess weight like it's just it's just naturally you know when you're when you're that much bigger as you start working out like and you have a caloric deficit starts to come down and you know when you see progress it just motivates you to keep going. So very very excited for that. Uh, I do think for anyone who has, you know, end of year goals instead of waiting until 2020. I know it's super easy to be like, well, I'll focus on that in 226. And I was thinking of that, too. But like, dude, I've been saying that all year. And it's like, you just got to [ __ ] get to it. Got to just get to it. And I've been eating good, too. I've been eating really good, dude. Like very good. Like no [ __ ] no fast food, nothing like that. Making my own food. If I don't make my own food, it's something organic. So, like I feel better, eating better, drinking way more water, and working out. So, I think it's really good to have all that as we, you know, focus on growing our net worths. That stuff is like really, really important because it's been two years, dude. It's been two years I've been letting my body go and and I've justified it through like I'm working hard building a brand, which like, sure, but at some point, you gotta gotta lock in. You got to lock in. So, all right, let's go. uh keep spamming Steve and uh piss him off. Dude, someone just said apple's better than oatmeal. Oh my gosh, dude. Now we can just do apple better than Apple greater than anything. Apple greater than anything. All right, thank you everybody. Love you all. I'll see you guys on the market open tomorrow. Bye everybody. Have a good one.