Trump in the United States has recently opened his mouth
Said that the United States should collect protection fees from Taiwan
triggered a heated discussion in Taiwanese society
<font color=#FDFF00FF>Trump said in an exclusive interview with Bloomberg Businessweek</font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>The United States protects Taiwan</font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>But Taiwan took away the US chip industry</font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>Trump said Taiwan should not pay protection money to the United States</font>
The United States’ practice of collecting protection fees
In fact, it happened many times in history
The book I’m going to face today is “The Hidden Empire”
Let’s talk about the imperial history of the United States
The author of this book is Daniel Immerwahr, a historian at Northwestern University in the United States.
The author proposes a historical view
To know how the United States became a world power
Don’t just look at what’s happening in the United States
Pay more attention to what is happening in the U.S. overseas colonies
Today we will introduce this video
How the United States built a maritime empire
Why did we voluntarily abandon our colonies after World War II?
How to build a hidden empire in contemporary times
When did the United States start building an empire?
During the industrial revolution in the 19th century
The United States grows a lot of cotton
Replace food crops with single cash crops
However, over-exploitation of agricultural land has led to depletion of soil fertility
We didn't have artificial fertilizers like we have now
in order to maintain soil fertility
European countries must use the guano of a seabird as fertilizer
But this kind of guano is only found in South America
At that time, a British company monopolized the entire Peruvian guano industry.
You can raise prices at will
Provoked protests by U.S. Congressmen
At that time, U.S. President Millard Fillmore said:
The government has the responsibility to help businessmen obtain guano at reasonable prices
Since there is no guano in the United States
So why not expand America's borders?
Let foreign resources become domestic
So American capitalists raised funds to form the American Guano Company
Looking for bird poop on a Pacific island
The U.S. government sent the navy to accompany the
Ensure that excavation operations are not interfered with by other countries
The Guano Islands Act was passed in 1856
It stipulates that U.S. citizens only need to find bird droppings on uninhabited islands.
The president can rule that the island belongs to the United States
By 1863, the United States had annexed 59 small islands.
American poet Whitman also wrote a poem
Praising the United States, saying "the Pacific will be ours"
Mine! Mine!
But digging up guano was a bad job in the 19th century.
The smell of bird droppings can cause lung damage
produce respiratory disease
Halfway through moving the manure
You will also be hit by bird droppings falling from the sky
......
As a result, companies cannot find Americans to do the job.
So at that time, they all lied to black people and Chinese people to pick up excrement.
Lie to lure them onboard by claiming superior benefits.
This caused a black riot
5 white guards killed
After returning to the United States
This matter went to the Supreme Court
Everett J. Waring, a lawyer who defended black workers at the time, said
These black people committed no crime
because pacific islands
Not within U.S. jurisdiction
If you say these islands are US territory
Then why aren't there any government officials on it?
If U.S. law applies to these islands
When workers are treated this way, it is the employer who is breaking the law.
Unexpectedly, then-President Benjamin Harrison sided with labor.
It sets a precedent
The legal borders of the United States are not limited to the North American continent
also extends to the ocean
these pacific islands
It became the basis for the United States to build its overseas empire.
By the end of the 19th century
The United States expands further outward
Because at that time, the European powers had divided up the entire world.
So the United States actually has no place left to colonize.
Alfred Mahan, a naval captain at the time, published a book "The Influence of Sea Power on History"
Advocate: The land has been occupied by empires
But the ocean is open
Successful maritime states in history
Not just occupying land
It is also necessary to capture relay stations between lands
To keep the route open
This book became a hit in Europe
Queen Victoria invites the author to dinner
The Japanese Naval Academy uses this book as a textbook
That inspired them to occupy Taiwan
The United States was also influenced by this book at the time
Decided to launch a war to expand the empire's territory
Attack Spanish colonies
Cuba, Puerto Rico, Philippines
Why choose Spain?
Because Spain's overseas empire was declining at that time
Popular uprisings in the colonies
Have been fighting Spain for decades
Therefore, the joining of the United States actually brought the final fatal blow.
U.S. Promises Colony to Filipinos Says
Just join forces with the United States
Let you be independent after the war
But after the war
The Spanish governor said: I am only willing to surrender to the white people
So when the surrender treaty was signed
Spain only negotiates with Americans
Let the United States buy the Philippines for $20 million
But the Filipinos were kept out of the city
no right to speak
The fruits of the colonial people's uprising were harvested by the United States
This makes Filipinos very angry
At that time, the Philippines had issued a Declaration of Independence, drafted a constitution, and issued currency.
President Aguinaldo was elected
Now they are saying that they will be sold to the United States
So President Aguinaldo declared war on the United States
Initiate the US-Philippine War
Lead the Filipinos in guerrilla warfare
Hope to use delaying tactics
Wait until the 1900 U.S. presidential election
Make the public feel disgusted with the imperial behavior of the United States
This will help the Philippines become independent
Results of the 1900 presidential election
indeed dominated by imperial issues
This is the first time in American history
Problems with overseas colonies
will decide which political party wins
As a result, Republican William McKinley won with 52% of the vote.
After winning the election, he appointed General MacArthur’s father as commander-in-chief to deal with the Philippines.
But Filipinos are strong-willed in their desire for independence
Refusing to yield
Old MacArthur then ordered
People who do not surrender to the United States
All slaughter for 10+
Taking away 1/6 of Luzon’s population
More than 1 million people died
Although the United States successfully occupied the Philippines
But after news of the massacre came back to the United States,
Major generals and generals in the war were prosecuted
Also began to let the people of the United States
ambivalence arises
After the United States captured Spanish colonies and Guano Islands
began to cause concern among native Americans.
During the pioneering period of the American West,
The new land that the United States got was the result of white people settling there
Therefore, after the expansion of the United States territory
To increase the living space for white people
But now the new land occupied overseas
The people living there are not white people.
But Asians, Blacks, Aboriginals
This means that the more the United States expands abroad,
The proportion of white people in the population will be smaller
By the 1900s
America's overseas empire
7,000 islands have been acquired
Home to 8.5 million non-white residents
More than 10% of the U.S. population
This posed a challenge to the white supremacy prevalent at the time
Many Americans opposed imperial expansion
Not because of sympathy for the colonized
But the United States is a white country
Do not want to see their country "tarnished" by other races
Like during the Mexican-American War of 1846
The United States considered occupying all of Mexico
Politician John Calhoun objected at the time:
"We never thought about bringing non-white people into the Union."
So in the end the United States had no choice but to annex sparsely populated northern Mexico
The south, which has a large population, was not included.
Today's Mexico
Also in 1860
The Dominican Republic is rich in sugar and coffee
Once welcomed the United States to buy the entire country
At the time, Massachusetts Congressman Charles Sumner said:
"The island of San Domingo, situated in tropical waters, and occupied by another race
, of another color, can never become a permanent possession
of the United States.”
In 1867, the United States and Russia purchased Alaska.
At that time, Americans complained that
We don't want to be a country like the Eskimos
In short
America’s imperial expansion wants land
But don't want people of color in these lands
So after taking over the Spanish colonies
There has been a heated debate in the United States
The United States wants to uphold three positions
republicanism, imperialism, white supremacy
But in the end they found that they could only take two kinds of
One must be given up
The first option is to maintain republicanism
against imperialism
For example, Mark Twain originally supported empire
Hope that "the American eagle will roar loudly over the Pacific"
But after seeing the massacre of the Philippines by the United States
turned to anti-imperialism
It’s just that the anti-imperial manuscripts he wrote at that time could not be published.
It was not until the 1960s that these manuscripts were made public
The second option is to sacrifice republican principles
maintain empire expansion
But this requires finding a way to rationalize "Why can't non-whites self-govern democratically?"
So there were a lot of discussions about white supremacy at that time.
For example, after the United States conquered the Philippines, it said
Asians do not have the self-control to engage in democracy like white people
The mission of American Christians is to educate them
It's the white man's burden
Finally, the third option is to abandon white supremacy
Let the people of the empire enjoy the republic
Equal treatment for people of color in U.S. overseas territories
Make overseas colonies a state
Puerto Ricans, Filipinos want to go down this road
None of the results were successful
People in the territory have always been discriminated against and treated differently
Later, only Hawaii and Alaska successfully became states.
The U.S. Supreme Court explained
The overseas territories of the United States are not subject to the human rights protections of the Constitution
Because the Constitution only applies to the states
Not applicable to territories
So the Philippines was ruled by the United States for 47 years
Never obtained U.S. citizenship
During the First World War, the trend of national self-determination
President Wilson made Puerto Ricans U.S. citizens
but without full citizenship rights
They still don't have the right to vote
There is no way to elect a president of the United States
You don’t have these rights unless you immigrate to the United States.
<font color=#FDFF00FF>I want to once again call to the attention my colleagues
here in congress</font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>that there
are still American citizens today who do not have equal voting rights,</font> <font color=#FDFF00FF>that there are still American citizens today who do not have equal voting rights,</font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>these are citizens of Americans island territories </font> <font color=#FDFF00FF>these are citizens of Americans island territories </font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>
the US Virgin islands, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the northern Marianas.</font> <font color=#FDFF00FF> the US Virgin islands, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the northern Marianas.</font >
<font color=#FDFF00FF>Yes. American citizens living in US island territories do not get to vote for president.</font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>Yes. American citizens living in US island territories do not get to vote for president. </font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>That's the kind of unsettling fact that deep
down you probably knew</font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>but chose not
to think about.</font>
To this day, 4 million people in the United States still live in the territories
being treated like a second class citizen
American science advanced by leaps and bounds in the 20th century
Make the United States a superpower
But the progress of the empire
In fact, many people who were sacrificed were hidden
None of these things happened in the United States
But in overseas territories
Early 20th Century
The American colonies were plagued by hookworm disease
In the 1930s
Dr. Cornelius P. Rhoads, Rockefeller Foundation
Go to Puerto Rico to treat locals
Dr. Rhodes during treatment
Confess in the letter
"The local overpopulation is the main cause of the disease.
I tried my best to kill eight people
and transplanted cancer cells into several people to
further eliminate them."
An American doctor actually killed a Puerto Rican out of racial hatred
The scandal sparked a local revolt
The then nationalist leader Albisu organized the Nationalist Party
Want to lead Puerto Rico to independence
As a result, Albisu was arrested by the FBI
Accused of subverting the U.S. government
10 years in Atlanta jail
Dr. Rhodes is fine
He also became the president of New York Memorial Hospital.
during world war ii
Become the team leader responsible for chemical gas testing
At that time, the United States wanted to be one step ahead of Germany in developing chemical weapons.
Need to find cheap lives
Conduct poison gas testing on a small island offshore Panama
As a result, Dr. Rhodes transported many Puerto Ricans to be used as guinea pigs.
Many people later developed cancer
After World War II
Dr. Lord received Medal of Honor
For developing chemical weapons
He also used medical knowledge gained from human experiments
Develop drugs to treat cancer
invented a technique called chemotherapy
This landed him on the cover of Time magazine in 1949
The chemotherapy we did today
Hidden behind this period of imperial history
In the memory of Puerto Ricans, Rod is a great villain
But in the United States, the scientific community
He is regarded as a great scientist
The American Cancer Society awards the Rhodes Memorial Award annually
20 years after the award was given
Only a Puerto Rican scientist came forward to expose what Rhodes had done.
Surprise the American Cancer Society
The name of the award was changed in 2009
In addition to chemotherapy
The contraceptive pill we use today
It was also experimented in Puerto Rico
In the 1950s
After the American father of birth control pills, Gregory Pincus, developed the birth control pill
The first problem is not knowing how to conduct clinical trials
Because birth control was illegal in many states in the United States at the time
But Puerto Rico is an exception
The government wants to implement birth control
Because the prevailing eugenics theory at that time believed that
The government should plan to eliminate the population of inferior races
So in 1956, Gregory Pincus went to the local area to conduct experiments
Threatens Puerto Rican medical students saying they won't get grades if they don't participate in experiments
And they conducted the experiment without telling them about the side effects.
Many girls experienced discomfort during the test
Gregory Pincus said that Puerto Rican women are too sensitive
<font color=#FDFF00FF>They used us for experiments</font>
<font color=#FDFF00FF>But we don’t know what they are doing</font>
After years of testing
The birth control pill was successfully launched in 1960
Later, many contraceptive products
They are all clinically tested in Puerto Rico first.
Like some of the big labels we know today
have sponsored projects in Puerto Rico.
According to the statistics
One-third of Puerto Rican women are sterilized
During the sterilization program
It just so happened that Albizu had been released from prison and returned to Puerto Rico.
He thinks birth control pill trials
It's a conspiracy by the United States to make Puerto Ricans extinct.
Once again led the locals to revolt
Two Puerto Rican nationalists at the time
To Washington to assassinate President Truman.
Almost succeeded
When caught and tried in court
They say it's to get Americans to take notice
what happened in puerto rico
Because Americans don’t know at all
Puerto Rico is a U.S. territory
I thought it was something from another country
That’s why the author said
America is a hidden empire
The United States has a way of making its citizens think that their country is not an empire.
pass the harm on to the colonial people
Hiding the cost of technological progress
People can't see the hidden history
And only see the high-tech level of the United States
I think this is all the result of the hard work of American scientists themselves.
After Japan's defeat in World War II
U.S. Congress receives petition to make Japan the 49th U.S. state
There are also many local newspapers that support Philippines becoming a state
At this time, the United States had enough power to annex many countries
But I didn’t expect that the United States made the opposite decision.
Let the Philippines, the largest colony, become independent
Even urged other European countries to abandon their colonies
Why did the United States, the most powerful country in the world, suddenly give up on building an empire?
This turn is incredible
The author believes that it can be explained from several angles
First, after World War II
Colonial people revolted on a large scale
Change the direction of the entire international public opinion
turn to support the colonized
General Marshall of the United States
Originally hoped to maintain U.S. troops overseas
But saw 20,000 American soldiers
March in Manila, demand home
These American service members witnessed anti-imperial movements in Asia
Realize that you are actually helping the oppressor
Decided to switch sides
Ally with Democratic Alliance of the Philippines
Demand that the U.S. government allow Filipinos self-government
Similar protests have also occurred in Hawaii, South Korea, Guam, and Myanmar
3,000 soldiers on hunger strike in Guam
American soldiers in Burma wrote to President Truman:
"We don't want to shoot these Southeast Asian people who are pursuing freedom anymore."
Because the scale of the fight against the epidemic is too great
The U.S. government had no choice but to withdraw its troops
At that time, the whole of Asia was watching how the United States would treat the Philippines.
It is to abide by the original promise of making the Philippines independent.
Or will it betray its promise and make the United States the laughingstock of the world?
So finally in 1946 the United States allowed the Philippines to become independent.
Again in 1959
Elevate Alaska and Hawaii to become the 49th and 50th states
President Truman said:
"If they are not allowed to become states and join the United States,
We cannot show the world that the United States is a democratic and self-governing country."
This was a big decision at the time
Because in Alaska and Hawaii, white people are not the majority of the population.
It is tantamount to allowing non-whites to enter the American political system on an equal footing.
Hawaii elects Kuang Youliang, the first Chinese congressman in U.S. history
It was also one of the few states at that time that allowed interracial marriage and multi-ethnic co-prosperity.
For example, Obama’s parents got married and gave birth to him in Hawaii.
The second reason why the United States gave up its empire was
The United States' technological development has advanced by leaps and bounds, and it no longer needs to rely on colonies.
during World War II
Japan occupied Southeast Asia, which exported rubber
Caused rubber shortage in European and American countries
Without rubber there would be no way to make tires, pipes, wires
America realizes it's in big trouble
So the U.S. government heavily funded the development of synthetic rubber
Successfully made rubber that can be synthesized from petroleum
This invention allowed the United States to obtain rubber without colonizing Southeast Asia.
except rubber
The United States has also invented various substitutes for raw materials
Among them, plastics have the greatest impact on modern people’s lives.
Synthetic fabrics, contact lenses, and leather all use plastic
At that time, French philosopher Roland Barthes sarcastically said
Now the whole world can be made plastic
Physicist Feynman said
The time will come when scientists know how to synthesize everything
Almost anything the United States needs can be made with chemical compounds
No longer need to rely on foreign raw materials
It is equivalent to freedom from the limitations of natural resources.
There is no need to fight for colonies like those countries in Europe
Chemical synthesis satisfies the empire's thirst
But there is an exception here
is to make these synthetics
Still need oil as a raw material
That's why after World War II
Many countries have broken away from colonization and become independent
But Middle Eastern countries began to be targeted by the United States.
When President Nixon was in office
He even seriously considered seizing Arab oil fields.
<font color=#FFFE00FF>We could not
allow the Soviet union to intervene unilaterally there.</font>
<font color=#FFFE00FF>Because if they had, we would have been forced to intervene
.</font>
The last reason why the United States gave up its empire is
It is the United States that exports American standards to the world
Globalization replaced empire
during World War I
The United States encountered problems when it entered the European battlefield
The United States uses the imperial system
But Europe uses the metric system
Different standards of weights and measures
Leading to the production of firearms, magazines, and arms equipment in the United States
They are all incompatible with British designed sizes.
Americans can't even borrow bullets from the Allies
So during World War II
Allied Powers Establish Standards Unification Committee
The agreement is to make it according to American sizes.
Because the core materials at that time were all made in the United States.
After World War II, Europe suffered heavy losses and industrial shutdowns.
On the contrary, American industry developed rapidly
Accounts for 60% of global economic output
The more items are made in America
Internationally accepted standards are gradually moving closer to those in the United States
slowly
American standards further influence various industries around the world
For example, the aviation industry in various countries all speak English in the air.
Traffic signs and traffic lights are American style
The standards for academic journals are also set by the United States.
By exporting these American standards
It is tantamount to letting international trade operate according to the American way.
So the United States does not need to colonize other countries
Globalization can achieve the same impact
One of the most obvious evidences is
Americans don’t need to learn another language
But people from other countries in the world must learn English
In fact, before 1930
International conferences use French as the official language
It's Americans who have to learn other languages
People like Wilson and Roosevelt were proficient in German
After World War II
Many countries colonized by Britain and the United States are disgusted with English
Gandhi once said that India's reliance on English is a symbol of slavery.
Quezon, the founding father of the Philippines, said
Making English the official language blocks the opportunity for local languages ​​to take root
After Mao Zedong came to power in China
They even launched the Cultural Revolution and banned the teaching of English
There was an anti-English wave throughout the Third World after the war.
So why is learning English a trend in countries all over the world now?
Because after World War II
Elites from all over the world flock to U.S. universities to study
These people are all highly intellectuals
After graduation, he returned to his mother country to spread English
The U.S. government heavily funds various overseas English teaching and radio stations
For example, Taiwan's ICRT was formerly the U.S. Army Radio
But the United States does not force other countries to learn English
It’s because the United States has become a strong culture
The latest academic publications and scientific research are written in English
The language of various software programs is also English
The latest technology products are all from the United States
76% of Nobel Prize winners speak English
People from non-English speaking countries
If you want to catch up with the United States
You must know English
Nowadays, anyone who does not know English is equal to being uncompetitive.
Not keeping up with the global perspective
So now the United States does not need to colonize other countries
People all over the world will learn English by themselves
This allows Americans to do business around the world
No need to worry about language barriers
Hollywood movies, books, and advertisements can be easily exported abroad
Allow the United States to further maintain English hegemony
Finally, the author wants to challenge the previous statement
Has the United States really given up its empire?
of course not
This statement is too naive
The United States is now just using military bases to build an empire
As early as 1958
U.S. Navy officer Stuart B. Barber suggested that the U.S. government
Anti-colonial wave sweeps through the Third World
It is difficult for Western powers to continue colonizing these countries.
The United States and its continued occupation
It's better to build a military base on a sparsely populated island.
Because the population is sparse
Even if it is occupied by the US military
Nationals living on the main islands don’t care too much either.
Therefore, the United States has reached agreements with many countries
The United States provides protection and assistance funds in exchange for the right to garrison troops
Like after the independence of the Philippines
The U.S. military base remains
Until the 1990s
Anti-American sentiment rises in the Philippines
The last US military base was removed
In recent years, due to China’s threats in the South China Sea
Philippine President Marcos Jr. allows new US military bases
US military bases can also be used to test nuclear weapons
after world war ii
US uses Marshall Islands to test atomic bomb
Forced relocation of local indigenous people
As a result, the scope of radiation fallout from nuclear weapons testing was too large
Affected fishing boats in Japan
There was a panic in Japan at that time
Sparked the first wave of anti-nuclear movement in Japan after the war
(*Japan’s data is 32 million people)
20 million people across the country signed a petition to ban the use of atomic bombs
The U.S. military occupied Japan after the war until 1952
But even if the occupation ends
There are still 200,000 US troops stationed in Japan
Although Okinawa has returned to Japan today,
But the US military base is still in Okinawa
Let the local people think
Okinawa is basically an American colony
The U.S. military has a large number of local sexual assault and crime records
Caused large-scale demonstrations and protests by local residents
From 1945 to 2016
At least 400 sexual crimes were recorded among U.S. troops stationed in Japan
The number of cases will surge by 2.5 times by 2023
Comes to more than 1,000
Then why doesn’t the Japanese government say no to the United States?
Because of the presence of the US military
Let Japan get a large number of orders
Huge profit
The United States deploys the first island chain after the war
But it is too far to send arms from the United States to Asia
It would be more cost-effective to manufacture in Japan
So the relationship between the US military and Japan
In fact, it’s more like employers and workers
If a worker refuses the boss’s request
It's like interrupting your own livelihood
The United States is fighting more wars in Asia
The more orders Japan can receive
From the Korean War to the Vietnam War
Japan’s economy grew 55 times
It can be said that Japan’s post-war economic take-off
is highly dependent on U.S. military bases
U.S. troops drink Kirin beer
Use Nikon camera
Riding a Honda motorcycle
These are all made in Japan
Japan traded political independence for postwar economic prosperity
So Japan’s attitude towards the United States
Always love and hate
On the one hand, local residents are disgusted with the US military base.
But on the other hand
The Japanese also know that they rely on the presence of the US military
Only then can we have today’s economic prosperity
until today
The United States also has 800 overseas military bases
America can become the world power it is today
It is these inconspicuous islands that rely on
No need for the United States to colonize any country
Geopolitical order can also be maintained through bases
In today's video, we introduce why the United States can dominate the world
America’s overseas empire originated from seizing guano resources
But when the United States began to occupy non-white territories
Imperial ambivalence is beginning to appear again in the United States
Unwilling to allow non-whites overseas equal citizenship
Technological inventions made the United States the most powerful country after World War II
But behind many technological inventions
What people cannot see are the colonial people who were sacrificed
The United States claims to be the world’s policeman
But wherever this policeman goes
You see people everywhere are protesting
Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Okinawa, Philippines
It wasn’t until the United States’ own soldiers came out to protest
The United States is gradually turning away from its empire
Because of technological globalization, English hegemony, and US military bases
The United States no longer needs colonization
You can also maintain your own power
Build a hidden empire behind the scenes