(Music) Xie Baoqing, Xie Baoqing, why did you make Li Yunlong angry? These days, the famous Chinese restaurant "Lian Suo Dian" "Xi Bei" and "Luo Yonghao" have been fighting over the issue of "Yuzhi Cai" Luo Yonghao said that all the dishes in Xi Bei are "Yuzhi Cai" Xi Bei's boss Jia Guolong firmly opposed and said that he would sue Luo Yonghao The new rise of Chinese cuisine has been a topic of great attention for Chinese people for the past two years And food security is always a worry that is hard to get rid of in the hearts of Chinese people In addition to the gossip effect of the people arguing This is the hottest topic in China in the past few days 我先非常快速的講一下事情的經過9月10號下午,羅永浩發了一個微博說下飛機跟同事吃了一頓西貝發現幾乎全都是玉子菜還那麼貴實在是太噁心了本來也沒多大波瀾但隔天西貝創始人賈國龍回應說按國家規定我們沒有一道是玉子菜而且百分之百不是玉子菜 and then said that he would sue Luo Yonghao and then announced the bill of Luo Yonghao and announced that from the next day on all stores nationwide will be online Luo Yonghao's menu Luo Yonghao came in and replied OK, come on It must be a high technology to be able to make the dishes that are now being cooked and reheated and then posted 15 Weibo posts within a short time including collecting evidence online Then the West Bank let the media to broadcast live in their kitchen It's okay if it doesn't open But it was all over the Internet saying that they had never seen their own live broadcast Everyone found that most of the ingredients in the kitchen in the West Bank were taken from the frozen packaging bag Take it out and heat it up. After the west sun, the real material is the real material. The result is directly overturned. Sea bass is kept for 78 months. There are sheep's legs that are from September, 24 years old. Even broccoli is served with ice tea. You call this fresh. The ingredients are sent by the central kitchen. No need to use a fire. All are heated by an electric stove. What's in this? Lamb meat Are your pumpkins frozen? Yes But I don't understand why they are frozen I don't know how to consider pumpkin But this kind of pumpkin Should be good for taste Or for craftsmanship I can't say this 18 months July 24th If this is sent from the central kitchen Why are the prices different? 那也是公司才买到别人速冻的那种东西这个就是我们的一些原料大家发现西北冷冻的烤羊排保质期18个月儿童套餐里的西兰花也是冷冻的保质期两年于是网上又多了一个新的梗西北的儿童餐年龄比儿童还要大总之这一轮口水战下来西北全面溃败有些门店的流量骤减七成 事情經過基本就是這樣好 關於玉之菜本身的討論我們暫時放一邊後面再來詳細探討但不管你支持誰不管你對玉之菜是什麼態度和看法從商業角度上來講賈國龍確實是犯下了非常嚴重的錯誤 Although Luo Yonghao is a very influential person, he is also famous for his love for public communication with people. But he is also a consumer. He ate a meal that he was not happy with and posted a micro blog to make a fuss. It's not impossible. Even if you think that Luo Yonghao's motivation is not good, but if the West does not respond, it is very possible that it is also spread in Luo Yonghao's own fan group. 畢竟是不是預制菜吧也不是個多大的事這並不是說羅永浩吃完以後食物中毒了血鉛超標了吃出大糞了這不是個食品安全的底線問題原本真沒啥事的可是隔天西北老闆賈活龍偏要回應回應也就算了還要起訴人家 羅永浩本身就是個流量代名詞再加上民人吵架、打官司這些八卦元素那能不火嗎?所以這件事其實是被賈國龍硬生生給推上熱搜的我認為對於羅永浩的吐槽微博西北唯一正確的做法就是不予理會 先不说对手是吵架王罗永浩而是在目前这个阶段关于自己的菜是不是预制菜的讨论对于任何餐饮企业来说都是不利的讨论的越多对企业就越不利因为究竟什么才是预制菜其实现在没有一个明确的界定公众对预制菜的认知和法律上的界定是完全不同的关于预制菜的法律界定和公众认知我们后面再讨论 所以這裡的問題其實就是大老闆不瞭解老百姓的情緒消費者在跟你談口味和價格你去跟消費者爭論法律定義所以你先甭管自己是不是玉子菜首先就是不要讓事情擴大 這是第一點第二點我們說你要跟人開戰你不要在自己的國土上打呀換句話說你要開戰你先看看誰要付出的成本和代價比較高如果你要付出的成本遠遠比對方高你就不應該打 罗永浩是搞互联网的玩流量的设闹越大他就越开心但你是开门做生意的呀这就好比两个人相约打一架结果你把人家请到你家里来打你家里还一堆古董瓷器什么的就算你最后把人打趴下了但这过程中必定要打碎几个古董你根本得不偿失 所以我說不用理會就算一定要理會用一個公司的官方號說幾句官話很遺憾羅老師您不滿意我們內部會研究如何改進菜品口味希望下次還有機會服務您結束了老羅繼續去找下個目標懟結果賈國榮不僅回應還要起訴對方我去吃個飯說不好吃然後店家起訴我有這麼做生意的嗎 這就來到第三個錯誤賈國龍不僅威脅要起訴客戶還把客戶的菜單給公佈出來了我知道有人覺得羅永浩是故意挑事動機我們不知道我們也不做猜測但他去吃飯就是客戶他既沒拍照也沒錄視頻就是發了一段文字你把人家菜單公佈出來無論如何就是理虧起碼會有更多人可以拿這件事來指責你 最後一個錯誤就是跟人家整論自己的價格貴不貴賈國隆在今年五月份的時候跟虎秀的一次訪談當中就已經說過這句話他說然後這一輪又再次激動的說西貝真不貴我看到的時候真的是為賈總著急啊 這裡我想講一下其實我本人對西北是非常熟悉的我在上海的那些年前前後後在西北吃了起碼有四五十次應該是有的有一陣子經常吃也衝了幾千塊的會員我記得一開始的時候我對西北是非常驚艷的那個時候還很早我估計可能是 09年、10年左右在那個時候,西北是少有的開放廚房就是他們廚房跟用餐區是用玻璃隔開的當然現在這樣做的很多了但是在十幾年前還是比較罕見的第二就是覺得很多菜品都挺好吃的羊肉串、牛大骨、油麵魚魚、涼皮黃米涼糕等等都挺好吃整體就給人一種非常乾淨的感覺還有就是服務是真的好 But it was around 18 or 19 years later I also felt that the price has become more expensive But to be honest, I still go there occasionally Just feel clean, rich and the taste is guaranteed But the point I want to talk about is here It's very subjective whether something is expensive or not For example, I think the environment is clean and tidy, the service is good, and people are willing to pay for it. But not everyone thinks so. Some people think that as long as it is stir-fried, there must be a pot, and they are more willing to eat small restaurants on the street. The environment is poor, the boss is a little fierce, it doesn't matter. This is not right. Because people's evaluation of expensive or cheap is related to their own values and financial interests. For example, some people think Shake Shack hamburger is worth eating Some people think it's worth spending 80 or 90 RMB to eat a hamburger set from a fast food restaurant It's a brain-washed idea Moreover, if we compare the price of western and other western dishes The western price is indeed higher than others According to the investigation results of Hu Xiu The price of western food is 85.03 RMB And other western dishes with a size of 20 or more The price of the joint restaurant is only between 24 to 55 RMB Of course, different restaurants have different prices Xibei has not fallen so far It can be seen that there are conditions for it to be cheap But for ordinary people People just think that you have a steamed bun for 21 yuan 43 yuan for fried eggs with sesame oil Very expensive In fact, among those who are angry at the western back, there must be many people who have never been to the western back and are not prepared to go So he doesn't really care if you are a pre-ordered dish He just thinks you sell expensive and hope you are unlucky This is a question that is unsolved So those brands that are more expensive than the same industry How do they do when they are in front of others and question their own price?  當一樣東西因為品牌也好服務也好帶來溢價的時候肯定是大部分人都覺得你貴的但沒關係啊你西北能做那麼多年生意還那麼好就代表你們針對的客戶群體是認可你們的產品和價格的對吧那就行了你又不是沙利亞為什麼一定要所有人都覺得你便宜呢 So you just need to be rich and successful If you make it big, it's like giving your original client a reason to not choose you But that's enough Jia Guolong and Ying Shiba are just an incident that is limited to the Luo Yonghao fan group Ying Shiba has made it a national issue, which is what the Chinese are all curious about 從人性上來講大部分人都是喜歡看別人倒楣的所以90%從來沒去西北吃過飯的人也一起來罵你數據也力幹見盈從賈國榮跟羅永浩槓上之後的三天9月10號和11號每天營業額減少100萬12號單日損失200到300萬元 In fact, from this mistake in the West, we can also see the difference between Chinese and American services. What kind of soil we say will produce what kind of fruit? The public policy of Chinese enterprises is very similar to that of the Chinese government. It's more like a parent's thinking. Treat people and consumers as children who don't know anything. Children complain that the first reaction of parents is What do you know? You dare to say I'm not good? Then you just have to find a way to shut your mouth It's easy for the CCP to shut your mouth Give you a title or find you a tea in the police station And as a private company, that is a lawsuit You haven't seen these years As long as a slightly famous media dare to say Huawei, BRD, Xiaomi, etc. Half bad words That's to send a lawyer's letter to tell you The first reaction of the West is also a lawsuit The lawsuit of these companies is the same as their government Basically, it's going to be your mouth But the US service industry is not the parents' thinking But the service staff's thinking The customer said the steak was fried too much The US companies said nothing Sorry, I'll make you a new one And give you a dessert Whether the steak is really not done well or the customer deliberately made trouble First, be stable and then check the problem If you do have a problem, then improve internally If there is no problem, you can win the trust of the customer If you don't believe it, try it Whenever you go to Starbucks or McDonald's Say your food has any problems You say there are worms in the coffee You say the meat is not defrosted You see if they need you to open the package and check 正眼都不需要看你的食物一眼必定立刻道歉重新做一份搞不好還要送你兩張優惠券其實美國企業這種做法也是賭消費者的嘴但它是讓你心裡很舒服的心甘情願的不願意說它下次再來 美國企業都懂的負面消息一旦發酵股價和市值都會立刻受到影響不管誰對誰錯都是企業輸所以必須第一時間滅貨才是對股東負責任的做法所以對待消費者首要的就是化解矛盾 I will talk about it later In fact, the public relations issues faced by the West don't need to be raised to the height of the Starbucks and McDonald's The public relations with a slightly higher level understand Just ignore it The news will pass in two days But the way Jia Guolong handled it highlighted a more fundamental problem of Chinese companies compared to Western companies That is, the people below can't hold the boss 中国企业,尤其是这种老板既是创始人又是CEO还在每天亲自监督日常工作的企业基本都是一言堂要知道能够从零开始把一家企业做成行业巨头的企业家当然有些有时代和运气的因素但他们大多都有特立独行的个性这类中国老板普遍都不愿意示弱,拒绝道歉 再加上他們因為自己成功的經驗所以對下面人的態度基本都是你能比我更陡?比如兩個月前也有另一個讓公關界驚掉下巴的案例T檢中心艾康國賓老闆的雷人言論 There is a lawyer in Beijing named Zhang Xiaolin He said that From 2013 to 2023 He has regular check-ups in Aikang every year But he has been diagnosed with kidney cancer and kidney transplant recently The doctor told him that his kidney cancer has been in the hospital for 3-5 years The transplant was not found in time 事情曝光后,爱康国民创始人兼董事长张立刚跟贾国龙一样第一时间不是化解矛盾,稀释凝人而是召开媒体说明会,宣布起诉张晓麟你想想,一个人已经身患绝症了你的第一个反应是起诉他,让他的生活雪上加霜不管你是不是有理,你觉得公众会站在哪一边? After saying that he will sue Zhang Xiaolin, Zhang Ligang said a lot in the press conference What public has no clear boundary on physical examination and treatment Causing public to have many misunderstandings about physical examination This is the same as the legal definition of Jia Guolong to argue about Yuzhi Cai It is meaningless to appease public emotions Some media summarized the big part of Li's speech Aikang's president said Don't expect to find out the disease with hundreds of dollars Aikang's president is done Aikang's president said The media is cutting off the branch In order to avoid the accusation of Aikang, I explain that the original words of Zhang Ligang are When you expect that a few hundred yuan medical examination can help you find out what disease and to check the single disease cost tens of thousands of dollars Do you think this situation exists? 媒体是不是断章取义大家可以自己判断总之就是对于消费者的控诉张立刚的操作不仅完全不符合西方企业第一时间通过稳定消费者情绪来灭火的做法反而是火上缴油有多大搞多大给公众的感觉就是圣气凌人电大欺客 我就想請問張總就算最後你官司打贏了到時媒體發個新聞附上一張圖是已經全身插滿管子骨瘦如柴眼眼一息的張女士標題是愛康國賓痛打絕症患者你真的贏了嗎 Similarly, I don't believe that a big company's PR department doesn't understand this. But there is no way. The people below can't hold the Chinese boss. So I often say that there are many Chinese companies that look like they have accepted the modernized corporate management model. But the bones are still the very traditional class relationship. It's hard for the people above to accept the opinions of the subordinates. You can see the difference between the name of domestic and foreign companies and the name of the boss. In the West, no matter how many layers are separated, even if the chairman is seen in front of the stage, it is also Peter, John, Jennifer, directly called. But Chinese companies are still what kind of people, what kind of people, what kind of place, what place. This kind of preparation concept is deeply embedded in Chinese culture. 你看中文油管上這兩年最火的兩個中國人一個是什麼局一個是什麼大爺其實我也挺火的但我不是中國人不然我就給自己取名周總恆梅了因為有這種深層次的文化因素在下面的人真的很難拉得住頭鐵的中國老闆所以他們犯下錯誤的可能性就更高 但这假国龙比张立刚还更加投帖事情发展到第四天几倍眼看就要不行了不知道什么原因14号晚上罗永浩突然发微博说这件事到此为止耽误了很多正事希望国家尽快出台预制菜相关的法规 I guess there are mutual friends who persuaded Luo Yonghao In fact, this is really good news for Xibei Luo Yonghao's words are like a step down for Xibei At this time, many media also released that Jia Guorong posted a friend circle like this It seems to be resolved Xibei knows its mistakes and can change them, making the brand better and better But after a while, the circle of friends still had the second half Jack said, "Luo Yonghao is a black mouth and a black society" "Too bad" Now Luo Yonghao is completely angry Because the Internet News Agency recently issued a statement to correct the black mouth So this accusation is extremely serious Luo Yonghao must not accept this setting Accepted as if he could not be on the Internet I am really shook by the development Jia Guolong is really reckless sorry to his employees and investors This is like two people fighting You are completely beaten down After winning, he came to shake hands Say a few polite words Admit it When you jump up and give people a glimpse Say you are excited Haven't you seen the situation clearly? The audience almost turned a blind eye to you. If you keep fighting, you will enter the ICO. You are not blind to give you the step. I hope everyone understands that I am not talking about Luo Yonghao. I am just analyzing this matter from a business perspective. It's because I used to be a loyal customer of eBay. So I feel sorry for them. Jack said, "This is a matter of right and wrong. We must understand who is right and who is wrong. This is the value I have always held." Yes, we can appreciate Jack's dignity. We can understand him as an founder. When our own baby is attacked, we are anxious. But as an enterprise manager, you have other responsibilities. You have to consider the interests of shareholders. You have to be responsible for 20,000 employees. 更何況,這件事其實並沒有上升到是非對錯和價值觀的層面更多的是一個名詞定義、食品科學常識和消費者知情權的爭議最後,我還想給賈國榮一個建議 I think after this incident, if Xibei can survive, he should not continue to be the CEO of Xibei. Invite a professional manager to manage daily operations, he can be the chairman after he retired. Many Chinese entrepreneurs do not understand one reason. The creation and the management of a business need two different people, need two different abilities. 举个例子,我们都知道谷歌的创始人是拉里佩奇和谢尔盖布林谷歌创立后三年,正如日中天,马上就要上市之前2001年他们宣布退位,聘用一个资深职业经理人埃里克·施密特来担任CEO两位创始人则专注在产品研发上当时拉里佩奇在向媒体解释说我们可以是很好的创始人,不代表我们就能够成为很好的大企业CEO In the next two years, Smith has developed Google from a company of 200 people to more than 1,000 people. In the previous era, the characteristic of Jia Guorong who dares to fight and fight may be very suitable for starting a business. But from this matter, I think he has already been disconnected from society. His knowledge and the current society are seriously incompatible. It's time to hand the management of the company to the next generation of professional business managers. 好了 講完商業現在我們來講講民生問題賈國龍為什麼敢說自己沒有任何一道玉子菜還要起訴羅永浩因為確實根據目前中國的相關法律定義西北這些菜品不算是玉子菜 In March 2024, the market supervision bureau, the United Education Department, and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and other departments jointly issued a notice to strengthen the security supervision of pre-made dishes. The content means that the central kitchen model widely applied by the joint-operated food and drink companies, which is pre-made side dishes, semi-finished products, finished dishes, and delivery to the free store, does not belong to pre-made dishes. talk about the standard of Japanese food, such as vegetarian food, rice, rice with a lid, steamed bread, meat, bread, burger, sandwiches, pizza, etc. All do not belong to Japanese food, so the Japanese say that western food is not Japanese food. Yes, but this standard does not seem to fit the current public's perception of Japanese food. 但我認為啊其實現在國內輿論環境確實也有些妖魔化玉子菜了以至於有些人似乎認為只要不是從洗都沒洗過的生肉生菜從零開始烹飪就是玉子菜只要不是現殺現炒的或者說只要你是需要提前解凍的就是玉子菜 这显然是不对的如果说餐厅只要用动品肉类和海鲜就是玉子菜那基本没有什么餐厅能够存活大家平常吃饭的价格也要立刻大幅涨价我认为真正的玉子菜就是那种现在很多只做外卖的小桌坊用的其实全都煮好了放到一个袋子里打开直接加热几分钟就能出餐的才是玉子菜 For example, like this Now some restaurants use a lot of pre-made dishes But the quality may not be easy to distinguish This is a braised pork with pork This big bag is 40 yuan Can make several Pour a pot of heat in the pan Add some ancholed bag Spray some water A little light soy sauce No need to give anything else Just heat up the juice You can put it on the plate 再充分一打 这品相你能分辨出他是玉子菜吗 食材成本一共10元 卖58 接着这个菜就更简单了 起锅烧油 放点鲜艳艳的青红椒酥下去炒一下 再把这个大袋装的鱼香肉丝袋子打开 倒一份下去 这一大袋也就是16块钱 可以做四五份 也是什么调料都不用给 在锅里翻炒加热一下就可以起锅装盘呢 看着这新鲜的青红椒丝你能一眼看出它是玉制菜吗食材成本4元卖32一盘接着这个广东经典粤菜脆皮乳干用的是这种玉制半成品直接下入油锅小火慢炸炸至外表通通脆皮的手捞出改个刀放入白油发酵的盘中即刻上菜食材成本25卖68这跟中央厨房把海鲜和肉类预处理洗好切好再冷冻起来备用完全不是一回事 但即便是玉制菜只要是通过现代化、规范化、卫生条件符合食品生产标准的中央厨房和工厂制作出来的玉制菜未必就比厚厨现炒的那些小管子来得不健康和不安全比如很多中国学校的城堡食堂里你说那些都是生肉生菜现做的那又如何呢?变质的、发收的、中毒的、吃出蟑螂和老鼠头的能比玉制菜健康吗? I think most ordinary people should accept Chinese cuisine. Only the Chinese cuisine mode is possible to provide relatively delicious and hygienic Chinese cuisine at a relatively low price. Cut the fresh vegetables and fry them, of course, but the cost is too high and the management is too difficult. You see many small towns Small couples visit It's delicious But have you ever seen their hygiene conditions in the kitchen? I bet you've seen it You'd rather eat modernized The Japanese cuisine made in the central kitchen And the couple They work hard all day Serve a few dozen people at most They can survive Because the small towns are cheap And almost without tax This is in the big city And the scale of restaurant management It's impossible 當然,我相信大部分群眾都是明白這個道理的所以很多人在說這不是一個預制菜還是不是預制菜的問題而是知情權的問題,是價格的問題第一,是不是預制菜應該讓消費者知道第二,是預制菜的話價格應該跟預制菜匹配 罗永浩也说了他不反对玉子菜而是希望国家出台规定餐厅应该明确在菜单上指出哪些是御处理哪些是现炒的这些要求是合理的在我看来很多人觉得玉子菜也没问题问题是要诚实因为西北确实在自己的宣传当中用了很多词语是让人家觉得他们是新鲜的手工的所以才卖这个价格这一点才是让很多人不爽的原因 但是我也想提醒大家一个点从直觉上来讲贴个标签告知消费者看起来是很简单的事但这其实牵扯到很多政策和产业的博弈并不是那么简单的 I will give an example about the food that should be changed should it be labeled? There are a lot of business in the country But you see the developed countries like the US, Canada, Australia and Singapore actually there is no forced change of the food As long as the change of the food does not lead to the obvious nutritional, nutritional or immune changes there is no need to label Why? One of the reasons is that the label has a hint effect. For example, if you put the label of the pre-made dish on this dish, consumers will easily take it as a warning. They will think whether this dish is unhealthy or not. Even scientifically speaking, it is not certain. 所以假如说玉制菜是未来的一个趋势那么政府和餐饮界就会希望先让群众从心理上接受玉制菜不代表不健康但从本次事件的相关评论区来看这还有非常遥远的距离 Second, the question of technology and cost. For example, there is a dish called winter melon ribs soup. The ribs may be cut in advance in the central kitchen, and packed in vacuum. Winter melon is cut on the day, the ginger may be cut in the central kitchen. The wolfberry and red dates are dried and prepared. The chopped green onion is cut in advance. How to make this soup? You said that each ingredient is marked separately What is what Then our menu will be covered with words and the words will be messed up The menu will be remade Which one is the pre-made Which one is the pre-treated by the central kitchen Which one is fresh These are all costs You may say Food safety is more than a day All costs are worth it Really? These costs will be transferred to the consumer Not everyone will feel it is worth it Don't get me wrong, I don't support the standardization of the budget. In general, I support the right of consumers to execute. The problem is, whether you are willing to admit it or not, almost every thing in this society is related to cost and efficiency. Resources are limited, so things are easy to be returned. So we ask colleagues who standardize budget, should we also think about in the current situation of food security in China should we really spend our limited time, energy and cost on the food we want to eat or not? About three months ago I made a program about food security in China within less than a week of preparing that program it happened 假奶粉 中药造假 灌水猪肉粽子吃出创可贴学校食堂绞肉机发现全是活蛆等等等当然后面还有幼儿园小朋友集体签中读的诗所以食品安全问题不解决其实预制不预制没什么区别毕竟如果你的猪肉都是淋巴肉就是给你现炒现做又有什么意义呢 So here I have to ask a question Why is there no controversy about whether it is a Japanese dish or not? Although Japanese dishes are a new concept for Chinese But in developed countries it is not Japan, the US Japanese dish industry is very mature You go to the US supermarket, the Japanese dish in the refrigerator is full Many upper class people usually eat this In addition to the high-end restaurants that ordinary people rarely go to Of course, the American chain restaurants are also in the central kitchen With frozen meat and seafood Then we should think about a problem Which developed country requires all restaurants to mark "pure" food? Foreigners are the most important information rights It's not so demanding As far as I know, the criticism of "pure" food Now only the Chinese people are arguing and paying attention to this matter Why is this? In my opinion, it is because Chinese people understand Chinese people Because the trust between Chinese people and Chinese people The trust between Chinese people and enterprises is too weak The less trust-based society, the more people believe in what they can see and touch 我看得到這塊肉我看到這盤還沒煮過的菜OK那我就比較放心而玉芝菜從本質上來講是因為提前準備好了我看不到這個原材料我看不到製作過程我就覺得這裡面有更大的可能藏有毛泥 Let me give you another example You will find that in small towns in China or some poor places there are many civilized signs in public toilets right? such as "one small step forward, one big step civilized" and "remind you to flush" etc. But if you go to big cities or high-end places you don't need these signs in the toilets 我想說明什麼呢需要標識是源自於不信任但只要社會依然存在大量的不誠信的商家只要監管機制和執法有漏洞只要官商勾結依然嚴重其實你再多的標識都沒用 毕竟既然奶粉都可以是假的为什么标识不能是假的呢好 那我今天就分享到这里我是老周横眉冷对直言不讳我们下期再见