Anytime we have thought we have had enough compute, we can slow down. Always negatively surprises like we should not have slowed down. Demand far outstrips compute supply today. So, anything we can bring online we consume immediately. Our biggest worry is that still. At the scale at which we are trying to get compute and build compute, the physical world does not move that fast. We do believe that the world of recursion is not that far where AI will design the systems it needs to train and run the next generation of AI including chips.
>> Hi, I'm Matt Turk. Welcome to the Matt Podcast. My guest today is Sachin Katti who holds what might be the most fascinating and relevant title in tech right now, Head of Industrial Compute at OpenAI. Sachin has an incredible background. He was a professor at Stanford, a multi-time founder, and most recently the CTO at Intel. Now, he's leading what many are calling the largest infrastructure build out in the human history. In this episode, we step away from the model layer and dive deep into compute and the physical reality of the AI boom. We talk about the staggering scale of the data centers being built. We get into the weeds on liquid-cooled supercomputers, power grid constraints, the potential of nuclear energy, and OpenAI's move into custom silicon with jalapeno. We also discuss the broader start strategy and the slightly sober reality that AI is now beginning to help design its own chips. It is a fantastic look behind the curtain at what it actually takes to power the future of intelligence. Please enjoy my conversation with Sachin Katti.
>> All right, Sachin, welcome. Uh excited to do this. Uh we are recording this on the sidelines of the Race conference in Paris. Uh so, thank you for braving the the heat.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh it's another heatwave here.
>> Thank you. Great to be here. Great to be here.
>> To start, some people describe what's currently happening in the world of compute data centers as the largest infrastructure build out in history, bigger than uh the highway, uh bigger than the railroads. And I'm I'm curious one, if you agree, and and two, what it feels like on from the inside. Like what's How do you view what you're currently building at OpenAI?
>> Yeah, it definitely feels like one of the largest things humanity has ever built, effectively. Definitely bigger than many of the things that I've heard of. I'm not old enough to have experienced the highway buildout. But no, it's feels exactly like what it sounds I'm in the in the belly of the beast, so to speak. Every day is we are making we are making decisions. We are compute that historically from my previous role, for example, at Intel, we'd probably take months to make given the magnitude of the those decisions. But the demand is so insatiable that and it is growing so rapidly that we have to move very quickly. So it's an it's an intense time, but it's probably the most exciting thing an engineer would want to be part of.
>> Yeah, and I read somewhere that OpenAI was planning on spending about 50 billion compute this year. Is that Is that still the rough number directionally?
>> It actually that sounds about right. Yeah, and the whole industry itself was going to be 700 billion in compute spend this year as well. So like insane insane numbers. It seems.
>> Yeah, and it's probably continuing to grow, right? And a lot of build happening. So a lot of that is also going to translate to compute usage from people like us in a year or two.
>> Is the right way to think about this that for OpenAI it's it's a bit of a new world, right? There's obviously not quite a a because obviously the all AI research is going you know full speed ahead but like building a whole new business within the the the company. Is that Is that fair? Is that how people think about it? Because obviously building models is one thing, building data centers is a whole different world.
>> Yeah, I mean I think OpenAI has always has had a fundamental belief that computers are the foundation of everything, right? Computers are the foundation for intelligence. And the way we keep continuing to scale intelligence and distribute intelligence is by having compute. And so that has never been different. That has never always been the belief. I think what's becoming clear is to build the kind of compute we need and and at the scale we have to not just rely on getting compute from our partners. We increasingly have to take a much more active role in building and getting that compute that we need. So it does absolutely feel like a new muscle that we're building in the company.
>> And maybe to anchor the the conversation from from from the beginning, it would actually be very helpful to talk about what a data center is in reality. So I think like everybody knows that data centers are being built but you know going to one's head like I'm not sure that everybody could say well what is actually being built because we've been building data centers over the industry for cloud for for decades at this point. So what is fundamentally different and new about the data centers that we're building for AI today?
>> I think the biggest probably is is a scale, right? So we are essentially building large supercomputers as we think about AI. And as we build intelligence and deliver intelligence and models become more capable, we use it for more more and more complex tasks. We need more and more bigger computers effectively. And so I think the way we visualize data centers is giant factories, right? That are turning uh electrons into tokens. Uh that's a popular phrase nowadays. But that it's it actually has a lot of a ring of truth to it. So, how do we take power? How do we take those electrons and actually use it to power chips that effectively are delivering intelligence? Uh but the way I visualize it is large football fields, uh liquid cooled because these chips run really hot. Uh the temperatures on these chips are very very high. And so you have to cool them with liquids. You can't cool them with air. So, a lot of liquid cooled uh basically refrigerators effectively uh that are sitting in the alongside the building.
>> And you know, on that a big wall where it's uh the the the cooling happens at the data center level or does it happen at the chip level? Or both?
>> Both. Right. So, you need to cool the data halls, but you also need to need to cool the chips individually because it's not going to be enough to do one or the other. And uh you also have to cool the things that connect chips, right? And so that's why you need cooling pretty much everywhere uh nowadays. Even the cables that are the transformers that distribute the power become too hot. So, they also need to be cooled. So, everything that processes energy produces heat.
>> And is cooling technology uh that's being used uh something that's uh well understood and is just getting deployed or is there like fundamental new things happening in cooling right now?
>> I think liquid cooling has been around for some time uh but has never been deployed at this scale. And so, the innovation is more around how to make it reliable, how to make it uh cheaper, uh more scalable, right? So, there's a lot of innovation around that. There's also a lot of new innovation, new kinds of liquids, new kinds of materials that can absorb heat better. Uh because anything that can improve the efficiency of heat transfer uh is very important for data centers.
>> Mhm.
>> So, we can then run the chips hotter.
>> Mhm.
>> Right? And there is a direct correlation between running a chip hotter and how powerful the computer is. So, the hotter the chip, the more memory bandwidth you get, the more flops you get. And so, there's more there's a strong payoff.
>> Mhm.
>> If you can cool well, that also means you can produce more intelligence.
>> All right. So, gigantic factories, lots of cooling. Um the other part that uh seems to me very critical to any discussion is uh power and energy. Uh so, how do how does that work starting at a a high level? Uh you do you connect to the grid? Do you have your own power generation?
>> It I think the early days we all connected to the grid. Uh and we still all would want to connect to the grid. Uh at this point we are beginning to hit uh and we are investing in generation infrastructure for the grid, transmission infrastructure for the grid. So, whenever we build a data center anywhere, we make it a hard commitment that we are not taking power away from the grid. In fact, we are investing in the grid to generate new power uh so that we can consume it uh for data centers.
>> You know, what does that mean practically?
>> You have a grid somewhere. Uh it produce it has a certain generation and distribution capability, certain number of megawatts. Uh obviously, a data center shows up. If there are spare capacity, then of course the data center can use it. But if there isn't spare capacity, then we have to add new gas or solar or hydro generation infrastructure.
>> To the grid.
>> So, we are investing and funding that build-out.
>> Mhm.
>> And then you have to build transmission lines, invest in transformers, substations to distribute that power.
>> Mhm.
>> So, wherever we're are data centers, we are funding uh the development of all of that infrastructure. And so, that's one of the things that uh that we do want to emphasize, which is this is infrastructure that would otherwise not have been funded hm if not for these data centers. And one of the side benefits of this big data center build-out is the grid infrastructure of America and the whole world, for that matter, is getting upgraded very quickly. And so, that's the power piece. So, whenever we can do that, we do that, and we consume power from the grid, but it's also being good citizens of the grid because we are improving the infrastructure for everyone.
>> Yeah.
>> Not just for data centers, but also for households. Uh in some places, we are beginning to hit the limits of how much grid power we can build and consume. And so, there everyone's looking at behind the meter. We are also doing some behind the meter generation, where we would have on-site uh power generation and distribution capability that did not come from the grid, but in fact, the data center becomes effectively self-sufficient
>> Yeah.
>> in terms of power.
>> It does gas turbines?
>> Well, what what is it? Today, it's gas turbines, especially in the US. Uh because that's the most dense, transportable form of energy, and also the one uh that is uh quite uh you know, widely available in the US. Uh but there, we are talking about the sub-mention.
>> Do you think that the nuclear conversation is uh interesting? Maybe we're recording this in France, which has a bunch of uh you know, nuclear nuclear uh power generation. Nuclear systems have come back to the discussion in the US, as well. Is that something that you think about? Do you think it's interesting?
>> Absolutely. It can't come soon enough.
>> Okay.
>> Uh I think it is the densest form of energy we can all produce and consume. Uh and it's also clean. So, I think definitely uh would be a good source of massive scalable energy for data centers. Obviously, outside of France uh the rest of the world has a lot of catching up to do and building this infrastructure, but I think it's going to be a very important role in the data center world.
>> Okay, so that's a great introduction on on on data centers. The other The other interesting bits of news that you guys recently had is jalapeno.
>> Mhm.
>> Um so now in for OpenAI in addition to being the application business, consumer and enterprise, and then being in the model AI research business, and then the computing data center business, it seems that OpenAI is in the uh chip business, if that's fair. So like completely full stack, but I'm I'm I'm curious and we'll we'll go into some details about jalapeno later later, but I just want to like overall strategy, where where does that fit?
>> As we begin to as so uh pretty big fraction of the world's population, AI usage is exploding. Uh inference is obviously becoming a big fraction of our workload, and it's consuming a lot of compute. And one of the other realizations is because we know what is the workload exactly, what is the model we want to run. Uh we can co-design the hardware to be super efficient and that are in those models, right? And so the the strategic thesis behind jalapeno is how do we take advantage of knowing what the end workload is, what the model itself is, and design chips uh that are very efficient in serving those models. So it really allows us to drive the efficiency advantage, drive more tokens per watt. So the key metric that jalapeno is optimizing is maximizing the number of tokens you can produce per watt. This And because the world is constrained by power today, so the more tokens you can produce for the same number of amount of power, it's better for everyone. So we look at it as a very critical ingredient in scaling how we deliver intelligence to the world.
>> Great. So we'll come back to Open AI in in in a second, but you mentioned you just mentioned inference and uh you know, there's such an interesting evolution as well. Without commenting on necessarily what's going on at Open AI specifically, is inference equally being much bigger than training these days in terms of like usage of computers as as as are we shifted from you know, being those very heavy pre-training runs as the major use case for compute to now just inference being the majority?
>> No, inference is big, perhaps even the majority on compute. And and I think one of the I we don't like to make a distinction between training and inference because a lot of training is now inference. So when we train a new model, we are generating synthetic data for example. That's inference. When we train a new model, we are doing post-training and that's inference. When you train a model, you're doing test time compute. That's all inference. So when we say training, a lot of the compute actually is inference even in that phase of the the work. So inference is a fundamental building block.
>> Yeah. Obviously I cannot resist asking the inevitable question around the potential risk of overbuilding given the lag between demand and usage and how long it takes to build a data center. And you mentioned somewhere that you were deliberately very paranoid about the problems ahead in the next three years. We're planning on that the surprises ahead, which seems like a very healthy approach. So, how do you how do you think about that? Is there any way to mitigate that or is just like I'm going to be playing do you have any belief that this is the future and you know, we're just all just going to go go go?
>> We have deep conviction in scaling, right? And history has borne us out. So, effectively our revenue, for example, has tracked it. We triple compute and we triple revenue. And we believe that I mean, that continues to be true. Demand far outstrips compute supply today. So, anything we can bring online we consume immediately. So, there's no compute that is going waste as for us at least. So, I think that conviction has not changed whatsoever. And if anything, we are seeing that scaling laws on research and training continue to hold and potentially the pace at which we are doing research is accelerating, right? Because of AI itself. So, AI is doing a lot of AI research now. And so, one of the subtle implications of that is is previously our researchers used to run experiments and they needed compute to run experiments. But the number of experiments they could run was limited by the number of human researchers they have, which is a scarce resource in the world. Right? There's not a lot of people who can do AI research. Now is AI itself can do AI research, the number of experiments we can draw next tools. And therefore, the amount of compute you need for research also explodes. So, we don't see a world where we will have unlimited compute for the foreseeable future, right? When I was referring to surprises, my worry is more on the downside of we are not able to actually build all the compute that you want. And and this is where is the other if the other way for us. Right? And because that is consistently in the case we anytime we have thought we have having less compute, we can slow down. Always negatively surprises like, oh we should not have slowed down. Right? And and so our biggest worry is that still. And at the scale at which we are planning to get compute and build compute, uh the physical world does not move that fast. Right? Physical supply chains, factories don't move that fast or cannot add capacity that fast. So for us the surprise is more on that direction than the other direction.
>> That's fascinating. You alluded to communities a minute ago and obviously that's a that's a key debate. So curious about your perspective on a on a on a spectrum where um you know, on the one hand one extreme you'd say, well, uh the AI industry and computer industry has a PR problem and there's no problem it's just that the the problem is that we cannot explain it well enough to at the other extreme actually those communities have a point. Uh what do you think the reality is?
>> I think anytime there's new technology which is as ex- as revolutionary as this technology is, uh there is always disruption that's going to happen. Uh but you know, that we have we have learned this over history that uh this always leads to better outcomes for society, right? And so how do we draw a line from where we are today to that outcome, right? And uh explain to the world why this is the trajectory we all need to be on. I mean, it's our responsibility to do that. Uh on the communities front there's a little bit of a local versus global issue, right? Uh the communities, I think data centers are even today a net positive to every community. It is we are building these data centers in rural areas of America for example, right? Where there's nothing else that is being built. I'm just kidding. So we show up in rural Texas. We build a data center that produces new property taxes into the community. That funds schools, that funds hospitals. We show up and we invest in new grid infrastructure. Which otherwise would never have happened. Because there's no demand. So there's a modernized grid that that area can enjoy. Basically we produce jobs. Nice. And and and so I think one of the things we are investing a lot in is explaining the local benefits every time we build a data center somewhere. And making sure that it is well understood the kind of upside that this has. And data centers, once they are built, are essentially very clean citizens. Right? They don't produce any gases or toxic chemicals or anything. Right? They're self-contained. They just produce intelligence.
>> Yeah. Typical question that comes up is water. Um and I think that's been debunked quite a bit by by research, but well it's maybe give us just color on um my outlook on the the water question.
>> We use liquid cooled and the liquid is recycled. So we do actually the water consumption of a data center is shockingly small relative to household water consumption. Uh so I think as you put it, it's been debunked. It's uh it's a misperception that data centers consume a lot of water. Uh if anything, they consume so little water for what they do. Uh and all of that water is recycled. So we don't net consume new water once we get to a particular point. The water just gets recycled as it is liquid cooled.
>> Yeah. So all those stories about like brown water is that just don't make sense because the water um at the data center up it's in like a contained circuit.
>> It's a closed loop. Yes, it's a closed loop. It's a closed loop.
>> And by the way, you mentioned Texas in rural areas. Since we talked about data centers at the beginning of this conversation, why do OpenAI and other companies pick rural areas? Like how do you select a site for a data center?
>> Uh so many factors. So one is of course land, like plentiful land. Uh number two would be uh permitting, like can we build these things? And we want to build these things such that they are uh not affecting any neighborhoods, right? So land that is somewhat removed is the ideal candidate. Of course, access to power, right? So a strong grid, strong gas availability. All of those are important factors. And then four is labor, right? So how quickly can you build these things? So availability of labor, construction labor, qualified electricians, plumbers, all this stuff comes into play. So all of those factors go into every single site selection decision. Um and I know we obviously Texas is a popular because it fits a lot of these criteria, but it's not the only state. I mean, we have data centers all around the country in LA plus.
>> Mhm. Okay, great. We're going to go into all of this in in in more detail, but um let's talk about you a little bit and and and your journey. So you're the the head of industrial compute at OpenAI, uh which by the way to the beginning of this conversation to the title industrial compute is is so, I mean, such a perfect title, right? For the moment we're in. Um but uh what what does that mean? What what what is the role um and how is this all effort organized within OpenAI to the extent you can talk about it?
>> Yeah, I I think think of it as uh my role and our team's role rather Uh how do we bring compute online at industrial scale. Right? That's effectively what we're doing. Uh that's the entire life cycle. So, how do we find the ingredients that are going to compute, land, power, shelves, chips, heat. How do we finance them? Right? So, because these are massive dollars. And so, how do we make sure that we finance the uh grid infrastructure? How do you finance the construction of the infrastructure? How do you finance the chips? Uh then it's about how do you operationalize all of this? So, how do you actually make sure these things happen on time? They stay up. How do you operationalize all of this infrastructure? So, it's that entire life cycle. And then, of course, uh how do you actually use the compute? So, big part of my role is uh capacity allocation inside of an ear.
>> Mhm.
>> So, it is always a scarce resource.
>> You sound very You're a very popular guy.
>> not very popular. Uh there is always someone who is unhappy with whatever decisions you make. Uh but, yeah, we actually our team provides the input to make the capacity allocation decisions.
>> Mhm.
>> So, we surface what are the different choice points and what are the what if questions on different allocation choices that we have. So, capacity planning and then, of course, using that to forecast how much capacity we need where. Because it's not just more compute, it's also where, what kind, what shape, what chip, uh what workload you want to run there. So, all of those are this team figures out kind of what should be the forecasting and planning. And that informs that closes the loop. And so, that informs of where do I go find the next chunk of land and power and chips to put in there.
>> And uh again, without going into it, I think uh confidential although I guess when you guys go public, all of this will you soon will all of this will be public, but like is that thousands of people at this stage? And like is that a is is that a like multiple different teams? Or do you guys got to like ask yours, a bunch of things in works, or is a bunch of contractors?
>> Uh it's a portfolio approach, right? So, we are never going to be in a world where we outsource everything or we let everything outsource, right? It's always going to be a mix because that's the that's the reason that's the reasonable thing to do, right? So, you don't want to put your eggs in all all in one basket. So, we will have hyperscalers providing probably providing a big chunk of a compute, a majority of a compute. Uh we will have new clouds uh parts of our portfolio. Uh we will be partnering with design build firms that can build the compute that we need. And of course, we may build some of it ourselves. And and so, we're always going to have a portfolio approach because at the scale which we need uh we will need to tap into all sources of compute. We can't just rely on one particular mechanism.
>> And uh your background before all of this uh so, you're both a uh professor at Stanford and an entrepreneur or founder or mostly an academic like just walk us through your journey.
>> A bit of all of the above. Uh so, but yes, uh I'm at my heart, I'm an academic. So, I've been a I'm professor at Stanford since 2010. Uh recently
>> What do you focus on there?
>> Uh I was a faculty in computer science and electrical engineering.
>> With a like a particular interest?
>> Uh yeah, my area of research was networking and optical fiber networks both mobile wireless networks and the like. So, there's only networks actually.
>> Okay.
>> Uh but three, four years ago, I while I was at Stanford, I did a couple of startups. Uh the last startup got acquired by VMware. Uh and that's how got to know Pat. Uh, Pat became Intel's CEO and he That's how I ended up at Intel. Uh, most recently before coming to Open AI, I was Intel's CTO. And uh, and so I've kind of seen all the different things, academia, startups, corporate uh, in Intel. And then of course, a mix of all of the above in Open AI because they have a research lab, uh, startup, and a fast-growing company all mixed into one by Open AI.
>> Yes. Is that what you Why you said What What did you say yes to the job when the job came uh, come up?
>> Uh, it's actually what I just said. That makes this so unique. Uh, and it's hard to find anywhere, right? Because you always have to choose, but having a world-class research environment coupled with the hardest technical problems. So, I mean, we're building the largest computer in the world. And so, there are a lot of new problems that we would need to solve. But also a fast-growing business. So, this makes us I I'd like problems that sit at the intersection of business, technology, and strategies. And so, this is like very unique time in history and a unique role. Uh, so which is very attractive, obviously.
>> Uh, very cool. All right. So, going into a bit more specifics about um, Open AI's compute strategy. Uh, so maybe let's summarize what you guys currently have. So, I think there's some Microsoft uh, you did this big uh, $20 deal with uh, Cerebras. There's a bunch of things going on. There's Stargate. Maybe just give us the lay of the land of what you currently have and then we'll talk about what you what you're building next.
>> Uh, we have compute from effectively many sources. So, Microsoft obviously is a big partner, important partner. Uh, we also have compute at the amounts from AWS, ION, and Google. So, we have compute from all of the hyperscalers, effectively. Um we also have compute from CoreWeave, for example, so a new cloud. And then, of course, compute uh that chip partners are supplying now, like Cerebras, in the top directly for any 26 compute for us. So, I think that's the mix roughly today. Um oh, as we go forward, uh obviously, we'll be building on all of these relationships. Uh but, also looking at more options where we design the compute, the data center itself ourselves, or potentially even build a data center ourselves.
>> Yeah.
>> So, all of those uh are ways of scaling the amount of compute that we have.
>> Mhm.
>> Um so, I think coming back to my earlier answer, it's the answer always will probably be try, but it's all of the above. I'm with you.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Uh no, no, that that's that's helpful. Uh and uh you know, obviously, diversification makes all the sense in the world, given the uh scarcity. Um and then, uh it seems that Stargate has evolved. So, from uh the what was going to be a joint venture with Oracle and uh SoftBank, um to what now seems like it seems like it's more like an umbrella term for the compute strategy these days. Is that Is that a fair way to describe it, or
>> Yeah. Yeah, I think uh we look at Stargate as our compute strategy.
>> Yeah.
>> And it uh is varying degrees of uh us designing or building the compute ourselves. Uh for example, with uh with Oracle close partnership, uh we help them uh design, we help them uh with how we do operate AI compute, which is effectively new kind of compute uh for us. Uh we work with SoftBank Energy, which is public. Uh we basically have co-designed the warm shell with them and they're executing on that warm shells and we will be kind of figuring out how to operate our chips in these data centers, ourselves, using our new chips. So, Stargate to us is that umbrella strategy for across all of these different things. And think of it as an evolution that we continuously be on because it's never going to be tomorrow we wake up wake up and do only one kind of we are building it.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, I've been Stargate to us is a continuous way of learning how to scale compute and we adding on more and more capability.
>> And as part of that there there are data centers being built right now in like Abilene, Texas and so maybe walk us through that. What what is currently being built for for people to have a so situational awareness?
>> Uh, we obviously have a big partnership with Oracle. That's the Abilene data center. Uh, that's where for example we are training our newest models. So, very excited about that. That's a very big uh, GB black belt cluster for for our needs.
>> Yeah. So, that's that's up and running.
>> It's up and running. It's being used for training the last two models more at your Um, so it's super trip.
>> Yeah.
>> A lot and you're seeing the results. Like you're seeing how quickly the models are becoming more capable.
>> Yeah.
>> It's because of these kinds of compute.
>> Yeah. Are there data centers that are currently being built that are Yes. That are the right Yeah.
>> Yes. So, Oracle is building a number of data centers all of which are public so across Michigan and Texas and other places. So, these are coming online in the next couple of years as they get built and being put whatever chips on that time training rather than but these are really meant to be uh very big clusters uh that Amel is new both uh training, but also product inference kind of compete.
>> Right. With the way those deals are structured, the Oracle is the prime building those uh and
>> Oracle of the cloud.
>> Is it
>> And we're consuming company
>> so you're the core tenant from both the Interesting. How does the for the stuff that you're building, how does the financing strategy work? You know, obviously you you you all raised what was it? The 122 billion was it the number um recently, so there's no uh shortage of cash, although, you know, um given all those expenses, I don't know, but um uh you know, the core resource of the world are famous for uh being very strategic users of debts. Um is that part of the financing strategy as well? How do you How do you all think about it?
>> I mean, uh with all of these compute uh that we have today, uh we have amazing partners who actually are channeling that for us. So, Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Oracle are we are off the off-take. So, we are the tenants, as you put it. So, we commit to consuming that compute, to buying that compute, whether it's online
>> Also, across the board, like everything um you're um cuz you you you're building stuff as well.
>> So, you're building you the partners are building
>> Partners somebody.
>> And you're always the across the board the the tenants, not the owner at the
>> Correct.
>> Okay. So, therefore, uh financing is outsourced to your partners. Okay. We talked about the jalapeno, let this let let's go into a bit more detail there um cuz in particular, it seems that you guys went incredibly quickly. And is that anything that I I read somewhere in 9 months from design to tape out? So, maybe maybe walk us through that and what was the reason it went so quick?
>> Yes, it was incredibly quick. 9 months is very very fast, probably the fastest I've seen in my career. I think several reasons. One is uh it it's a team, it's a strong team. Uh they have many many of many of the team have designed TPU chips at Google in the past. So, very well experienced team. We have a great partner in Broadcom. That have a very strong track record of delivering get skills ASICs. So, I think a strong partnership with Broadcom and and making this happen. Three, I think perhaps Open AI unique fund. Uh in most chip companies or when you design chips, you don't know what you're designing it for. Because you are a vendor, the customer who you eventually runs the workload is someone different. Uh there's a unique advantage here of us knowing what the future models might look like and therefore being able to short circuit a lot of the decisions you need to make design decisions you need to make on the chip side. So, that that's super helpful. And finally, increasingly AI itself helping design and optimize the chip. That is usually the one that takes the longest time because human you're basically limited by how many human human much human time is there to process all this data and run the experiments and we can do a lot of those iterations much faster.
>> With AI?
>> Using AI.
>> Yeah. So, AI is building its own chips now.
>> Yes. I think that world is not very far. I mean, AI right now is assisting in chip design. But we do believe that the world of recursion is not that far where AI will design the systems it needs to train and run the next generation of AI.
>> And including chips.
>> Including chips.
>> Including chips. You also released a a weeks ago uh MRC, which is a networking protocol. Uh walk us through through that. What is it and why is it a big deal?
>> It's a new uh networking uh protocol routing technology, if you will. Uh uh uh to scale these really large cluster fabrics. So, imagine you have uh 100,000 GPUs. Uh They need to be connected together. And uh when you're doing large training runs, uh they're constantly communicating with each other because these models are so large that the processing of the models is happening over the entire 100,000 GPU cluster, for example. And you can imagine imagine the number of links and switches and NIC cards that need to be there to connect all of these chips together. At this scale, failures are common. Right? Happens all the time. Uh you can't really even enumerate all the ways things could fail. So, the strategy behind MRC is how do you design algorithms and protocols that can gracefully um mask all these failures and make sure that the training workload does not get impacted. Right? It just The network is an abstracted system that the training job does not ever worry. It's always going to be there. It's always going to find a path even if a link fails. So, it is all about reliability. It is all about availability. So, how do we design protocols that can tame the complexity of such a such a big cluster and make sure that we don't get stopped because of failures, which are very common in the system. So, MRC is like a multi-path spraying protocol where you can spray packets over multiple paths. So, between any two chips, there are many many routes to get there, kind of like between any two points in the city there are many routes. So, instead of picking just one route, we will we will send traffic across all of them, and whichever one succeeds, you take that. Right? And so, that way even if any one of them fails, it's not a showstopper. So, that's kind of the basic intuition behind it. It's obviously a lot more sophisticated than that. But, doing this at scale and that speed is hard, and so that's why it's quite innovative.
>> What are the bottlenecks that you experience these days? So, since like the nature of the bottleneck keeps changing in the computer industry, um uh obviously people talk a lot about memory these days. Is that Is that one of them? Or what what else?
>> I think they're bottlenecks everywhere, to be honest, to the supply chain. Uh so, I don't think there's any one, right? Uh we have bottlenecks in the data center building itself, around permitting, around availability of gas turbines, transformers. Those industries capped historically have not added much capacity over the last decade or so ago, and they've suddenly experienced a demand shock.
>> Yeah.
>> And it takes years before you have capacity to produce more turbines and transformers. So, we're trying to play catch-up.
>> And to the job thing that you that you mentioned earlier, is there like a shortage of like electricians and and and my technical people trade people that know how to build those things as well? Is there a human
>> Absolutely.
>> Yeah.
>> Absolutely. So,
>> That's why we should all do uh as AI replaces uh knowledge workers become electricians.
>> No, I think there is a definitely a shortage of electricians, plumbers, all kinds of trades, you name it. So, anything we can do to train more folks to be able to do those They're a very well-paying jobs uh that a lot of us all of the hyperscalers, all of the labs would actively hiring for if you had the like qualifications, so I think that is definitely a bottleneck. I think they're becoming an increasingly bottleneck because we're all trying to build more and more and we have unlimited number of things these capabilities.
>> Right. Let's talk for a minute about the the business side of things. Another thing you launched recently is guaranteeing capacity for customers to lock in compute. Um That which is interesting, right? It almost feels like OpenAI is also becoming a utility company providing computing to others. Uh uh what's the story behind that and the the strategy?
>> Yeah, so guaranteed capacity is guaranteed tokens. Right? So, we are effectively saying we will guarantee you a certain dollars worth of tokens of intelligence. I I mean, it makes sense, right? So, in a world where compute is a shortage, therefore tokens are always going to be at a premium. And there's a shortage of tokens that we can produce even the limited compute that we have. And as this becomes a fundamental input to the enterprise, right? So, enterprises are going to need intelligence, more and more of it to run. Right? And so, this is a way of enterprises gaining assurance that the tokens of intelligence that they need will be there for them. And so, they they don't have to take business risk. Right? And so, I I I think it's uh it's good business hygiene. If you have a critical supply resource and every enterprise, intelligence is kind of the most important supply item, issue it. Uh it makes little sense to make sure you secure that supply. And so, that's that's the demand we're trying to fulfill.
>> Yeah.
>> I know it's a new concept, like what does it mean to have guaranteed capacity for the intelligence? But I think that's what intelligence is becoming. It is becoming a supply unit for every digital enterprise.
>> Right. So, maybe to end on a fun one, uh, and you can answer either with your open eye hat on or not, uh, data centers in space. Is that Is that, uh, is that exciting? Is that science fiction? Is that, uh, needed? Is it something that people like to talk about just because it's cool? Or where where where do you land?
>> For for the geek in me and the engineer in me, it's definitely exciting. It's, uh, one of those things that can be super cool to see a constellation of satellites producing compute. Uh, I actually think it is, uh, it will become feasible, right? As engineering problems we solve. Uh, but they can be solved, uh, with enough time and investment. Uh, whether it is needed, uh, I think there is room for orbital compute. Uh, I don't think it's going to solve all the compute needs, but it's uh, definitely going to be a complement in the arsenal. I think what we are waiting for is when does the economics of the launching satellite change? And when does the economics of the hardware change? Because we need to get to a point where it's cheap to launch the hardware. And if something fails, it's cheap to throw it away. You I mean, you can't go up and fix it. Uh, unlike on the ground. Uh, and so I think that inflection point hopefully happens soon and at that point time it becomes viable.
>> Correct. So, Chirag has been a wonderful. Thank you so much for spending time with us. We appreciate it.
>> Thank you. It's been great to have have this chat.
>> Cool. Hi, it's Matt Turk again. Thanks for listening to this episode of the Mad Podcast. If you enjoyed it, we'd be very grateful if you would consider subscribing if you haven't already or leaving a positive review or comment on whichever platform you're watching this or listening to this episode from. This really helps us build a podcast and get great guests. Thanks and see you on the next episode.