Hello everyone, I'm Anthony
Welcome to my channel
In the first two videos
We discussed NTR fantasies
And the psychological state behind it
I believe everyone will find
Our analysis
This is not limited to this particular case
More through this case
To reveal a universal spiritual structure
As we said in the last video
When we analyze a certain sexual fantasy in depth
us
We can also learn from the various subcultures that emerge
See similar background
So
Today we are going to talk about another online subculture
That is, effeminate culture
Or women's clothing culture
This also shows the spiritual world of people
Especially at the unconscious level
A rather delicate and complex mechanism
This video
Let’s try to analyze the logic behind this.
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
and consultation topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
Before we dive into the analysis
First, a clear definition is needed
What exactly is the sissy culture we are discussing today?
The word itself is complex
Because it blurs traditional gender boundaries
"Nanny" refers to those who are biologically male.
But in appearance and posture, they are highly feminine
Even individuals who are more consistent with female stereotypes
They often use exquisite makeup
Highly feminine clothing and specific body language
To highlight the cute and sexy characteristics
Such as fair skin
Slender waist and cute expression
Sexy poses, white or black stockings, etc.
Therefore, although I am playing a woman
But the women they want to watch and play
It's better to say it's more
Is a perfect female symbol that meets men's desires
He and real women
Not much
It's a highly edited image of a woman.
He filters out the complexity of real women
Only retain and enlarge
Function as an object of male desire
It's like an actress in a porn movie.
The actresses she plays are not real women.
It's the same principle
The groups covered by the male-girl culture
Although the identities are diverse
But they are undoubtedly men.
We can roughly divide it into three categories
First of all, a minority
Men who use sissy as a public social identity
For example, some anchors and internet celebrities
This group is of course very small.
The second is the private fantasist or actor
That is to say, having a fantasy of wearing women's clothing
Or only in private spaces or small circles
Men who practice cross-dressing
The number of people in this group
Of course it's much bigger than the first one.
The third is anonymous consumers
This is also the largest group
They use the Internet and other channels
Watching and consuming images related to male sissies
Video and cultural products
and obtain sexual satisfaction from it
We will not delve into the first group for now.
This is not only because their proportion is very small
It's because of turning fantasy into reality
and as a public social identity
Their behavior motivations are often mixed with economic
Career development and other practical factors
I mainly want to analyze the latter two groups of people
That is, a person who secretly desires to be a woman.
and anonymous consumers
Because they don't express their desires or fantasies
Put it into action
Instead, it can better reflect the purity of fantasy
Why in psychoanalysis
Analyzing pure fantasy
Is it more meaningful than analyzing the actual actions?
Because fantasy is the most primitive thing in a person's heart
The most direct blueprint
Action
It is always the result of a compromise between this blueprint and reality.
result
A person in fantasy
Infinite access to the core of his unconscious desires
He can break all taboos without restraint
Anyway, there is no price or cost
But when he was about to put his fantasy into action
We must consider the various limitations of reality
For example, does his appearance allow
Does his financial situation support it?
Will the social environment punish him?
What consequences will the gaze of others bring?
All these realistic factors
Will force him to modify and delete
Even distorting your most primitive fantasy
These compromises and noise
It will block the most genuine expression of his inner desires
Therefore, by analyzing the purest
A fantasy blueprint untainted by reality
We can see more clearly what drives everything.
The most fundamental desire structure and psychological problems
Then the masculine culture
What kind of psychological symptoms does it reflect?
We are on station b
You can see a lot of male girls
Or videos with keywords like "cross-dressing guy"
I think these videos can be roughly divided into two categories
Category 1
This is a video that simply introduces and records women's clothing life
For example, the title of this video is
"Boys insist on wearing women's clothes for a year
what happens?"
"Guide to using high heels" and so on
This type of video
Satisfies the male audience's voyeurism and curiosity
He just provided a superficial information.
The audience will not leave
Just a pure observer
The second type of video is a situational drama video.
For example, a title like "When I called my brothers to go out and surf the Internet
And I wear women's clothing
what happens?"
“How will your roommates react when you dress like a woman?”
Or "If your roommate goes home and thinks about boys, don't even think about sleeping."
Or "I was approached while wearing women's clothing to get takeout" etc.
This type of video not only records the details of the life of the man and the woman
and
Make it easy for the audience to empathize
A character in the scene
Such as a passerby, roommate, stranger, etc.
Why
Which of the second scripts is more worthy of analysis?
Because it reveals that the audience is in this fantasy
is indispensable
Role
Life record videos
It may be misunderstood as a person's self-entertainment
The situational video
This reveals the key point of the male girl's fantasy
It's never the actor's own self-admiration
The efforts of the parties
Such as makeup, clothing, performance
All for the sake of being the male other
Like roommates, brothers, good buddies
Desire of male passers-by, etc.
The establishment of fantasy is inseparable from the gaze of others
This type of subject matter also has several core dramatic elements
First, the pleasure of the story
Often comes from a broken
A powerful moment
This moment
It means that the other person suddenly discovered the true gender of the man-girl.
And the place where the man appeared
It is often in male dormitories and internet cafe rooms.
Or social occasions among brothers and sisters
These are highly masculine
There is almost no room for real women
And when they discover the existence of male girls
The man will immediately fall into a dominated relationship
Become the passive one, waiting to be dealt with
Tempting object
Because he's not a real woman after all.
This makes it easier for other men to approach him.
It will not be considered an offense against women
It is legal contact between men
Why this kind of plot?
Get used to setting
What if a girl suddenly appears in the boys' dormitory or other places?
Because the real audience and target of this drama
It's never women or society as a whole.
The male group itself
Places such as the men's dormitory
It is the soil for constructing and confirming masculinity
Here
Men talk about women, games, sports, etc.
To strengthen each other's masculine identity
There are no real women here
But it is full of
Imagination and desire for the abstract symbol of woman
therefore
This space is a place where desires are highly compressed.
But there is no pressure cooker to release
The sudden intrusion of the man
It's like being in this pressure cooker of desire
Drop a bomb
He suddenly became the male space
The only focus and answer to all desires
His desirability was magnified to the extreme
Here
Everyone will chase her without a doubt.
Desire to possess her
For those men who want to be a man
Instead, you will experience an extreme pleasure from it
and a sense of power
It's just that he is passively masochistic
To gain this power
And for
For men who regard girls as objects of desire
This fantasy
It is equivalent to happening in a lawless place
Therefore, it can also release pleasure to the greatest extent
In a normal interaction between men and women
Male desire
Governed by a series of symbolic laws
This law includes social ethics, legal norms
and respect for women as independent subjects
A man
You can't touch a woman directly.
His movements were blocked by this wall.
But in the boys' dormitory scene
This law targeting women
Ingeniously suspended in the logic of fantasy
Because the biological sex of a man is male
Then any physical contact with him by other men
Can be used in "playing around with brothers" and "joking"
"Curious touching" is carried out under the guise of legality
Through this fantasy,
Sadistic fantasists can strip away the guilt of sexual violence
Reduce it to a pure natural force and
Drama of Surrender
And the masochist who longs to be a man's wife
No burden
Enjoy the charm of yourself to the fullest
Causing the other party to lose control
Pure pleasure
That's it
We have to ask this question
If a man fantasizes about becoming a masculine
Gaining a sense of power in this fantasy
But power comes in countless forms.
such as gaining wealth, knowledge, fame or social status
It can give a person a sense of power
Why the parties
Will choose to take
This
What about sexual fantasies that seem so devious and perverse?
here
We must emphasize a principle of psychoanalysis
That's how symptoms develop
Forever and Trauma
or lack of core areas directly related to
Solution
Always responding precisely to the root cause of trauma
As
What we talked about in the sexual fantasy video
Any form of sexual fantasy
It always points to the pursuit of security
This sense of security is not the security we usually understand.
Because a lot of sexual fantasies seem really dangerous.
Not safe at all
But the sense of security mentioned here
Mainly refers to
Free from those who lead to self-attack
The threat of pathological beliefs
Fantasize about becoming a billionaire
It cannot directly cure a person
Feeling like a man
The pain of having no charm
Because of financial success
Unable to respond directly to the one deep in his heart
The voice that kept mocking him:
"You're not attractive"
"You Can't Get Love"
He must be
On this purest battlefield
Turn defeat into victory in a fantastical way
He wants to be in the place where he feels most incompetent
Experience the ultimate power
This can also explain
A persistent problem on the Chinese internet
"Give you 10 million in cash
In exchange for your Tsinghua
Peking University or other 985 degrees
Would you like to?"
From a purely economic perspective
A diploma itself
It's totally inadequate to compare with 10 million in cash.
This question itself seems to lack social common sense
However, the reason why such problems can be so varied is that
It continues to spark discussion among many people
It's not because people are really doing economic calculations.
But because
It touched countless people on the single-plank bridge of the college entrance examination.
The collective trauma and anxiety experienced
It is because the intensity of the trauma is too high
Logic that overwhelms common sense
This makes this problem
Become a meaningful symptom
And exposed the human spiritual world
The irrational side
People are never purely rational economic people.
Our value judgment
To a large extent unconscious
Driven by symbolic logic
And fantasy
Always manifested as the most faithful to trauma
A "mirror" response
The male girl fantasy also accurately reflects this point
Why do some men
Do you have the fantasy of becoming a sissy?
First, it all started from a traumatic point.
The subject feels a lack of masculinity
Whether it is due to strict family education, patriarchal oppression
The frustration of growing up
Or is it because of the current social culture?
High demands placed on successful men
In short, he felt deeply powerless in reality.
He felt that he could not be an attractive
Successful men
To gain the favor of the opposite sex
In this frustration
The image of women is distorted
The woman he couldn't have
In his fantasy
From an equal
Became a high and mighty
A judge who can find fault and judge him at will
He would think that because they are sexy and desired
So they have power
Can dominate my happiness and pain
He will infinitely magnify what this woman has.
This sexual privilege
This is of course a misunderstanding of real women.
Essentially, it revolves around
He unfolds his desire as a man
The women he understands
It is based on his own powerlessness and inferiority
A fantasy image projected
He fantasizes that women have what he doesn't have.
The power that controls desire
at this time
The "cunning tricks of the spirit" come into play
He faces two paths
The first is the realistic path
That is through real effort
A long period of study and struggle
To become a person who controls life
Attractive man
This road is difficult
Full of uncertainty
And you may suffer new failures at any time
The second path is the fantasy path
He soon discovered a
A shortcut to quickly repair trauma
That is the fantasy of becoming a woman directly
The parties feel
Since I can't be a strong man
Then I can also play a female
Come be a strong man or a group of strong men
Object of desire
Through this dramatic identity swap
He transformed himself
From a loser who pursues his desires but fails
Becoming the center of desire for all men
He no longer needs to pursue anyone.
He just needs to be there to arouse others' desire
In this way
He is in fantasy
But it feels so real
He regained power
Even through masochism
But this just shows
The human unconscious is indeed a tireless
Constantly seeking shortcuts
A master who relieves trauma and deprivation
Similar conversions are also very common in real life
For example
A child is very afraid of an imaginary monster
or someone
Strict teacher
He felt weak
Passive, vulnerable at any time
So he suddenly started playing the monster
Imitate the teacher's tone to teach other children
At this moment
He does this by becoming the source of that fear
Merge the two into one
Miraculously, I will turn my passive fear into
Transformed into an active
A sense of power over everything
This is exactly the same logic as the male fantasy
I can't defeat the power that makes me feel powerless
Then I will join her and become her
For example
Some people feel that they are in life
all the time
All controlled by an omnipotent organization
This organization has been following him and persecuting him.
He felt so powerless and miserable.
However, through such a narrative
Instead, he strengthened his own value.
If I were targeted by such a powerful organization
This just illustrates
I have some potential to scare people.
I am extremely important to this world.
thus
Individuals defend themselves against the feeling of insignificance and powerlessness.
Even though it is through the fantasy of being persecuted
So far we have analyzed many
Symptoms and hallucinations that seem strange and peculiar
From NTR plot to effeminate culture
Then to conspiracy theories
But they all have one thing in common
That is, they are all subjects
A retreat in the face of real setbacks and trauma
Regression doesn't just mean becoming childish in behavior
It refers to
From a more mature
More complex patterns of libido satisfaction
Such as work, love and creation
Back to an earlier era
A more direct and primitive form of narcissism
However
Is a spiritual phenomenon sublimation or regression?
Symptom or creation?
There is no external, absolutely objective standard
Distinguishing all this
final
The yardstick lies in the subject's relationship to his own fantasy
As we said before
When a person
Dominated by these unconscious conflicts and fantasies
Tortured by him
Ashamed and confused for him
But can't get rid of
When you are trapped in compulsive repetition
He is a symptom
In the symptoms
Individuals are passive
A slave to one's own unconsciousness
However
When the subject becomes aware of its existence
Be aware of its working mechanism
When you understand the trauma and deprivation it stems from
Everything changes
The nature of fantasy has undergone a fundamental shift
There is a certain distance between the subject and the fantasy
He is no longer the one consumed by fantasy
At this moment
Fantasy is no longer just a
Symptoms that need to be cured
It may become a valuable
Towards a career of creativity and subjectivity
for example
Recognize and analyze your symptoms through thinking
Individuals can create thought-provoking works
He can use this unique desire
Structure and life experience
Sublimate into an article, a painting, a video
Even in life
He can do so on the premise of knowing, safety and voluntariness
This fantasy
Transformed into a
Games or hobbies that explore oneself and one's relationships
The key difference is
A person is passive and becomes a symptom
Or actively use symptoms to create
From an object determined by the unconscious
Become a person who can speak
The subject who analyzes and transforms his own unconscious
Let’s stop here for today
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss a certain article or paragraph with me
A video
A social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please also contact me
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of psychology and education
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching. Goodbye.