All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. It is our first market close in about five days. Excited to be back. We are ending out the first day of December and we are going to see how this plays out. We were red in the morning, ended up going green by the afternoon and now it's kind of I mean it's kind of back and forth. S&P 5A Bitcoin unfortunately has been the the story uh of the day that's been to the downside. Bitcoin right there 85,000 did get to 83 at one point down from 91,000 earlier in the morning. Nvidia going a little green up 1.3%. So still down 2%. Meta basically down 1% of the day and then the S&P 500 at 680. A 680 close I think would be very good just psychologically staying above that 680 level. However, uh you know that might not happen because we're 50 cents away. So the the fact that the market I think is holding up today is important. There haven't been a ton of pieces of news uh that necessarily should say the market should sell off or should go higher. We had that uh Japan bond yield spike overnight to the highest level 1.84% 84% on the 10-year since 2008. So, I think that kind of spooked out Bitcoin, but outside of that, nothing too crazy. We do have a bunch of headlines that came out over the past couple hours that we'll talk about, but overall relatively flat day for the broader market. S&P 500 right there down about42%. Now, the NeoClouds, which Nebas I know, got an upgrade today. That's why that bad boy is up 7% $101. I rent also following uh kind of weird, right? Nebus and I are up. Cipher and Wolf were down. It's almost like the OpenAI proxies were green and the Google proxies because Cipher and Wolf have investment by Google are red. So, not really sure why the divergence is happening there. Neb did get an upgrade this morning. So, maybe that's specifically why Neb is outperforming all these other guys. But it is funny that Nvidia is relatively I mean it's up today, but it's not, you know, anywhere near where it was on earnings, but the Neoclouds are going a lot higher. Cororey right there also up 5.48% today. So, you are seeing a little bit more momentum in those NeoClouds. Unfortunately, Bitmine, that one at its worst was at 2880 today. Now it's at 29.990, down about 9%. Micro Strategy as well getting hit. It was down 11. Now it's only down four given Bitcoin had a little bit of a rebound. Tesla as well basically flat on the day at 429. But that's kind of the story of what we've got going on. Now after hours, we've got MongoDB. Let me know in the chat if anyone owns those names. And Cradle, CRDO, $30 billion company for those uh that don't know the name. I'm going to put a poll right now in the chat and ask which one people think outperforms. I really don't have an opinion on either. Um, we covered their earnings last time and last time I I think last time Q2 was when [ __ ] really surprised to the upside. Which one do you think outperforms? Um, I think it was up like 30% the day after. So, we're going to see if that can kind of continue going into today. Yes, Amcor as well. That Broadcom upgrade got Amcore to make a move and that's why it was nice to see Shopify down 5% is weird given we looked at the Black Friday sales numbers these mornings from Toby Luke the CEO of Shopify. I mean 25% year-over-year merchant sales 6.2 billion dollars in one day. 25% year-over-year growth. We got Cyber Monday today. I mean that's absolutely incredible. By the way, doesn't Black Shopify has that website? Um let's see if it pops up. Yeah, this one right here. For anyone who hasn't seen it, you can go to this website, bfcm.shopify.com, and it shows you a live um presentation of how many sales they're having every minute, which is kind of crazy. They do it through this like pinball machine. So, per minute right now, they are doing about 28,000 orders and $3 million. It's kind of crazy, but the consumer so far doesn't seem to be as stressed as kind of what we were hearing over the past couple days. Shopify went down today. Yeah, I mean it makes sense as well, just given the amount of momentum and manage load management they're having on the platform itself. So, that's what you have in the broader equity markets. Now, we do have some headlines right here. Again, we'll have Mongol and Crater after the bell. There was a couple of headlines that I think are important to cover and then we'll get into all the other pieces of news. I think the biggest one was probably from Robin Hood. So, we got an update on the prediction markets for November. I joined Tanner's show a couple of hours ago to talk about these prediction markets. Um, it's pretty incredible growth. November had three billion contracts traded. That's up 20% month overmonth, 9.5 billion contracts in total. And they're hosting a new event called Robin Hood Presents Yes. No. It's going to be streamed on December 16. Now, the thing about this event is Vlad told us back at the Hood Summit that this was going to be an AI event, their fourth event in less than 12 months, which already is crazy. But they're they're they're making it called Robin Hood Presents Yes. No. Which to me signals that it's not just going to be about AI. It's likely going to be about AI and prediction markets. And as a result, I think they're going to be ramping up the entire prediction markets ecosystem. And that's going to be very exciting to see. So, I mean, I told you guys I've been doing a lot more research on prediction markets as an entire industry. I'm probably going to have a substack on it in a couple days, but um I think this is a very big industry. Uh the reason why they bought an exchange or took like a equity position exchange with Susahana Group as like the the market maker on the joint venture last week is because they're probably seeing a ridiculous amount of volumes that they need to build their own clearing house to be able to support. And given they did three billion contracts in a month, it seems like there is a need for for a new market maker like Robin. So Robin right there 123 still down 4% of the day because of crypto. But the fun thing about this is if crypto sells off throughout the rest of 2026, which who knows if that's going to happen or not. Um, you've got prediction markets. So, if Robin Hood loses the crypto volatility, sports aren't going anywhere. And if people are going to continue betting on sports or weather or whatever events people like to predict markets on, uh, that volatility, especially if Robinet takes a large part of the market share, it's not going to be as lucrative as crypto, but if they can match the volumes, they can make up for the lack of revenue from crypto, which just goes to the moat that Robin Hood has about being able to build products in a variety of different ecosystems and still outperform. So, I think that is some good news for them, and we're going to hopefully see if that continues going into the end of the year. So, right there, that's down about 2% on the day. JPAL is going to be speaking at 8:00 PM. So, uh I mean again, I don't think he's going to be saying anything that important because it's uh like a black week in terms of a blackout week. Fed can't talk. Uh they're not supposed to be saying anything. So, they said everything they had to say last week. So, maybe we'll get some comments from JPAL, but going into the end of the day, I'll report on what we get. Yeah. JP at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 p. p.m. Pacific at Stanford. I think it's going to be like just talking to the Stanford graduates, not really something so serious in regards to talking about the economy. Oaklo right there down about 3% on the day. Quantum getting hit hard. Dwave down 5%. Oio andQ down 4%. Uh Regetti down 7%. AS down 6% and Rocket Lab down 4%. So, Ohio Beta names definitely taking it on the chin today. Broadcom as well down 4% after a pretty monster week it had last week. AMD actually getting some love. AMD, Nebas, and Nvidia not doing too bad today. Uh even with the broad red that we're seeing in the market. GameStop was up 1% today and Open Door as well was down about um 5%. Hims is selling off as well. Let's take a look at the heat map here. Wow. Hims 3765. Apple, Amazon, Nvidia leading the day. Everything else kind of taking a hit. Even Google taking a 1.2% hit. Walmart's up, Home Depot's up. Energyy's up. Uh you might have some fears about a war with Venezuela, which obviously would not be good for oil prices. So maybe the energy stocks rallying a little bit off that. Um but Nvidia right there is kind of leading the day and it wasn't leading the day. It was down for the majority of the day. So the fact that it's recovering towards the end is not too bad. Yeah, Shopify as well taking a big hit. I I'm not sure why Shopify is getting hit as hard as they are, but nonetheless, they are getting hit. Speaking of people getting hit, uh you've got some people that have also been crashing out on the the crypto ecosystem. Uh, I have not watched this video yet, but Cactus Jack sent it to me, so we're all gonna be watching it at the same time. But here's this guy who, well, let's just say he's not happy that crypto is not doing that well.
>> I'M TIRED OF WINNING. I'M TIRED OF LOSING ALL MY MONEY. YOU PROMISED US YOU MAKE CRYPTO GREAT AGAIN. YOU PROMISED US WE'D BE RICH. THE ONLY PEOPLE THAT ARE RICH IS YOU AND YOUR FAMILY. YOU ABSOLUTE SLIME BALL. YOU LOST THE MEMECOIN. YOU LAUNCHING VAPORWARE CRYPTO THAT NO ONE WANTS. YOU GET BRIBED BY ALL THE CRYPTO OFFICIALS. YOU PARDON CRIMINALS TO DESTROY THE MARKET. ERIC TRUMP SAYS Q4 WOULD BE UNBELIEVABLE FOR OUR BANKS. OH, IT'S PRETTY UNBELIEVABLE. IT'S PRETTY UNBELIEVABLE HOW MUCH MONEY I'VE LOST. ERIC TRUMP. DONALD TRUMP. DONALD TRUMP JR., YOU GUYS DESTROYED MY LIFE. THE ONLY PERSON I WOULD TRUST IS BARON TRUMP BECAUSE HE'S 8 FEET TALL. BARON, YOU TELL ME WHAT TO DO BECAUSE RIGHT NOW I HATE THE TRUMP FAMILY.
>> OKAY, so he's probably acting a little bit there, but the sentiment uh I think is very real in the crypto ecos ecosystem and and and you can't blame people for feeling like that. I don't know if you necessarily have to blame Trump about all this stuff, but nonetheless, Bitcoin has just not performed this year. And to make things worse, you know, someone asked a question about this morning, what is Micro Strategy going to have to do? Would they end up selling their crypto? Uh, well, here's the clip. The answer is, yeah, the CEO of Micro Strategy, obviously Sailor is going to have the final decision here, but he admits we theoretically could sell our Bitcoin. And so now as we're looking at, you know, Bitcoin winter, as we see our MNAV compressing, my hope is our MNAV doesn't go below one. But if we did and and we we and we didn't have other access to capital, we would sell Bitcoin.
>> But that would almost be a last resort.
>> That would be a last resort. And and and I think like math, there's the mathematical side of me that says that would be absolutely the right thing to do. Uh, and there's the emotional side of me, the market side of me that says, you know, we don't want to really be the company that's selling Bitcoin. And so now, as
>> Sailor has said many times, they're not going to sell Bitcoin. But you got the CEO admitting that they might have to. And again, legally, they have to at least put a disclaimer that they could do this. This is from their presentation right here as well, where they said, "Hey, if we are below 1xm, we could sell Bitcoin or sell Bitcoin derivatives." So the best way to avoid that is for Bitcoin to not go down the gutter and hopefully it doesn't. But nonetheless, that is why Micro Strategy and BMR and a lot of these other crypto derivative plays have been getting pretty hit over the past couple days. Uh Santa Claus rally. A lot of people have been asking, hey, when does the Santa Claus rally start? Well, technically, this is from uh our boy Ryan Dietrich. Doesn't really start till the middle of the month. So S&P uh historically from 1950 to 1924 first 15 days is flat. So Santa comes to town closer to the end of the month as you can see right there from the 15th to the 31st you get a bit of a move and that aggregates to 1.4%. Um so the next 15 days, next two weeks, you know, if there is any seasonal move that is going to be green, you might have to wait for it. The other thing that's important to remember as well, and this is not to say the Santa Claus rally won't happen, but it's important to have this context. A lot of that Santa Claus rally aggregate data is based on the idea of September and October being really bad. So December you tend to get a rally and reverse a lot of the losses that you have from September and October. This year September and October were great. November was bad, but November was down a percent. You know, it's not crazy. It was like 0 75%. So when you think about it from that perspective, it's like does December have to be phenomenal? I think there's other reasons why December could be good, but the sort of built-in seasonality argument hasn't held up the entire year. And a lot of that was because of the April downside that we had with tariffs. And so we're going to have to see if it holds up the same going into the end of December this year. Again, video right there 17959. Are we holding 680? We are not holding 680 unfortunately. 67954 as we are selling off of the close. Was November a down month? Let me see. November 1st, we were at on the S&P uh 683 at the end of the month. 683.39. No, November wasn't even down. Yeah, Laura, you're right. [laughter] We was actually up 03%. So again, like you had September, October, and November be three green months in a row. So, the question is just going to be, can December, you know, finish it out that way? And hopefully it does. All right, we got two earnings after the bell. Let me know if anyone owns these stocks, [ __ ] and Kredo. Uh, not the drone company, the other one, CRDO, 61% thinks [ __ ] outperforms. Um, and Kredo is about 31%. We should be getting their earnings in about five minutes as soon as the bell rings. We'll take a look at those earnings and then we'll get through some of the other headlines that we had throughout the entire day. And there we go. Uh 40 seconds until we get into the close. Unfortunately, we are selling off into the close. Relatively flat day across a lot of names. Some names green like a Nebia's getting a nice 5% boost. Nvidia 1.5%. Shopify for some reason. There's got to be a bigger story why Shopify is down 6%. That's weird. Him's down six. Robin down four. Obviously, the Bitcoin plays are down and the S&P 500 looks like it is going to close down about 0.5% on the day. Decent amount of people have Krato and [ __ ] Okay, cool. So, we're going to see what earnings they put up today. Thank you everybody for being here Monday, December 1st. Happy to be back. Happy you all are back. The stock market for the first time in December is officially closed. [music] All right. Wow. We got the 680 close. We got the 680 close right into the end. We got a little bit of a candle right there. 68027. Nice to see that we at least got 680. Just psychologically b being above that 680 level I think is important. So really cool to see that. Corey right there, 5% of the day. Shopy, some people say Shopify's website was down based on Cyber Monday traffic. That's a fair reason for it to potentially be down on the day, but I would say that's more bullish than not just because there's so much demand. So, I think there's a deeper reason for why that stock is down 5% here. Nebas 5% on the day. That's green. [ __ ] we're going to get the earnings after the bell. That was flat during the day. Nvidia did touch 180, closed at 1792. We do have some headlines about Nvidia that we'll talk about in a second. Tesla 430. Nokia that was flat. Uh, Amcore 3774 that was actually up 3.75 5% on the day. Dualingo that was down 3%. Grab was down 3%. Coinbase was down 4%. Google down about 1.65%. Regetti quantum names basically all down 7 to 8% on the day. Oscar was wow Oscar was down 7% today. I did not see that. But Oscar took a hit on the day down about 7% as the market's trying to figure out what happens with healthcare subsidies. Weevil that was down about 1.3. Dutch Bros was up 1.2. Rocket 1.68. Meta I think was relatively flat. Meta 640 not too crazy down about 1%. Amazon I think held on to its green. Yes it did. 23388 that was up 28 and then Nvidia kind of led the way up 1.65. Now Nvidia did have that announcement today with Mr. I forgot the name of the guy but it was the CEO of Synopsis. They are doing a $2 billion equity stake in the company. And we'll talk a little bit more about that partnership. We're going to get earnings in a second, but for those that missed Jensen's response to all of the Google TPU comments, uh here's what he said earlier this morning.
>> You know, listen, we've been uh we've been competing with AS6 now for quite a long time and Google has AS6 for a long time. Nvidia's Nvidia and they did a great job as you know and I've always been complimentary
>> always.
>> What NVIDIA does is much more versatile. Our technology is much more funible. Notice the announcement today. Accelerating synopsis design tools, the EDA, the SDA, the CAE tools require computer architecture like CUDA. It's not available for AS6. And so NVIDIA can address markets that are much much broader, not just chat bots. We are also everywhere. We're in every cloud. We're in every single OEM. We're on prem and we're also at the edge. And so the Nvidia opportunity is much much larger. And you're now seeing a real tangible experience example of an opportunity that we could do with our platform that nobody else can. And so this is a very big opportunity for us, huge opportunity to reinvent the EDA industry, the design and engineering industry for Synopsis and the rest of the industry and a growth opportunity for us because this is so computationally intensive.
>> We'll talk about some other news updates we got on a video, but that was Mr. Jensen's response around Google TV. He was very respectful. He says Google does a great job. It's just uh given the moat of CUDA and given the level of demand that still exists for not just an ASIC but the GPU itself from a general purpose perspective on computing. That's where you have Jensen saying, "Hey, we're we're just we we have a bigger opportunity here." And the partnership with Synopsis is emblematic of that. Amazon right there up a little bit after hours. Nvidia continues to go up a little bit. All right, these earnings should be out very soon. [ __ ] we don't have the numbers yet. CRDO don't have the numbers yet either. Um, let me see if I can get their expectations up. And see what we have. Amazon launching US ultra fast delivery for grocery staples in 30 minutes. Wow. Amazon already has groceries in 30 minutes from uh from in certain cities. Or maybe it's like two hours. Maybe it's not 30 minutes. 30 minutes might be something new for them. Uh, another update on Amazon. We'll talk about this more in a bit, but Black Friday sales on Amazon were led by Rufus, which is their AI agent. They put out a report saying Rufus was instrumental in helping people find the types of products they wanted. So, uh, we might see a material increase potentially in those Black Friday sales just because of their LLM shopping assistant actually being useful on Black Friday. [ __ ] going up a little bit after hours. Let's see if the earnings are out. And then Krato, that one's still flat after hours as well. Earnings expectations on both of these. So, let's pull this up. Market on [ __ ] is looking for 79 cents of EPS and 593 million of revenue. Oh, Beyond Meat was up 41% as well. We'll talk about that in a second. And then Krato 50 cents and 234 million in revenue. Those are the expectations and hopefully we can get a double beat across the board which would be matching a lot of the companies in the semiconductor space and in the software space. Cradle in the semiconductor space and [ __ ] in the the SAS space. Um, oh, I don't know why Beyond Meat was up. Oh, but Kratos's up 8% on Kratos. Okay, we'll talk about Beyond Meat in a bit. [ __ ] as well up 8.2%. Wow. Let's see if these guys beat heavy. Let's see. First off, year to date these stocks. [ __ ] is up year-to- date 34%. So expectations already are high. Kredo year to date is up 141%. And remember they design and manufacture basically high-speed connectivity solutions um in the networking and data center space. So Nvidia demand should be very strong and AMD demand should signal very strong demand for cradle and that stock's reflecting it. That's up 7%. [ __ ] that's up 12%. Let's see if we can get some numbers here on on the earnings. Uh likely looking for a double beat. Wow. Oh, these are big numbers. These are big boy numbers. [ __ ] beat EPS by 67%. 132 versus 79 cents expected. Revenue they beat by 6% 628 versus 593. EPS up 14% year-over-year. Revenue up 19% year-over-year 67% of course of course 67 of course but my goodness that's a hell. I think that's one of the biggest beats we've seen for a SAS name old quarter. And then Krato, they beat EPS by 34%. 67 again, it's not a beat by 67%, but 67 cents of EPS beating by 34% versus 50 cents expected. Revenue beat by 14%. Revenue is up 272% year-over-year. EPS is up 857% yearover-year. Wow, those are big numbers, dude. Those are big numbers. I know these are not the largest companies in the world but you would expect them to show AI being a tailwind and uh for each of them there should be some level of tailwind intrinsically given their business models
>> and I think that's what we're getting right here. Uh these are the numbers again. Krato massive beat 34% on EPS. Kratos now up 11% after hours. Mongo's up 13.4. The poll was which one outperforms. Both of them are rel I mean Kratos's 1% away less than 1% from catching up to [ __ ] after hours. Goodness, these are good numbers. [laughter] Shout out to those that got Krato. You got someone saying I was telling you guys about Krato. Well, for those that listened, there you go. Those are some pretty deep numbers. Let's get deeper into the numbers and see if we can get some actual data. Let's see if it's on their website and if we have the docs out. Um, let's see. No, of course. Of course. Why Why would the server be available? Look at that. Not found. All right. So, that's [ __ ] Let's see. Krato and see if we got that to go deeper into the numbers. [ __ ] is an interesting one. I mean, there's been a lot of different talk around I think Dan Ies is a fan of that one. I've never fully done a deep dive into them, but it looks like AI is a tailwind. While we're waiting for the [ __ ] here's Krato. Uh, revenue of 268 million. That's up 20% quarter quarter, 272% year-over-year. Gap gross margins of 67% net income 82 million, opex of 102 versus 57. Uh, CEO says in the second quarter, Krato delivered revenue of 260 million, increase of 20% sequentially. These are the strongest quarterly results in Kratos's history and they reflect the continued buildout of the world's largest AI training and inference clusters. Looking forward, the combination of continued growth in our core AEC and IC franchises, plus the upcoming ranks of our recently announced ALC's gives us an outlook with strong revenue growth and profitability through fiscal 2026 and beyond. Again, another CEO saying data center demand is strong. Third quarter they're expecting 345 million gross margin 65% opex of 116 million. Third quarter last year uh let me see if we can pull that up or sorry fourth quarter because this is the third quarter or do they have the other? Yeah. Okay. So they operate on a different timeline but let me see third quarter last year. Um, dude, third quarter last year looked like it was like, from what I'm looking 115 million. That means it's up basically 2.5. They're going to keep that 272% growth rate going into the end of uh end of Q4. It looks like they're keeping that growth pretty consistent around 250 to 290%. Wow. [ __ ] 15% after hours and Krato with 13% signaling the data center market is not slowing down. I'm going to try to get MongoDB's numbers. Uh if the website can load right here. Let's see if we can get a little bit more coverage on this one. In terms of some of the other numbers, let's pull this up. This is a big one, dude. [ __ ] is like software. I mean software has been good. Well, software has been decent. Palanteer's at a decent quarter. Crowd Strike um but the other ones have been relatively relatively flat. Mongo's leading the way right here. Fed rate probabilities, yes, are still at 87%. So, uh it does look like 87.6%. We are going to get that rate cut, which is why a lot of these things are starting to starting to come together here. All right, [ __ ] revenue 628, net income 2 million, adjusted EPS 139 versus 79 cents. Trying to see how they beat on EPS this hard. Was it a tax thing or was it legit? Their quarter was just that good. Again, EPS 67% beat. Snowflake will have earnings later in the week. I think it's on Wednesday. Yeah, we're going to need the website to load. Oh, there we go. We got it. All right, here it is. So, let's get a little bit deeper into these numbers. Pretty damn massive here. Revenues up 30% year-over-year. Third quarter, fiscal total revenue 628. That's up 19%. They added 2,600 customers, 62,500 total customers in Q3. [ __ ] delivered strong third quarter results that exceeded the high end of our guidance by continued strength in Atlas, which saw growth accelerate to 30% year-over-year. We also delivered meaningful margin out performance as we executed on our plan to drive profitable growth. So if that EPS growth was based on margin and not uh not something from a tax perspective then that's a big deal. Reflecting the strength, we are raising our guidance on the top and the bottom line for the rest of the year. Q3 was an exceptional quarter. Existing customers are expanding with us and net new customer additions continue to show strength. Companies across industries and geographies are choosing [ __ ] because we provide a unified data platform that powers mission critical workloads today and positions them to capitalize on AI. Cash flow 2.3 billion in cash. Revenue gain 628 million. Gross profit was 449 million. Fourth quarter guide, you got your increase to 670 million. Fiscal year will be 2.43 billion. Market cap on [ __ ] I think it's like 30 billion, 26 billion. That stock now up 14% after hours. Swipe said, "I added 100 cradle before the close." Well, congrats. That's a big quarter, dude. I've not deeply deeply looked into this company, but uh every other semiconductor earnings should have signaled that they will have a good quarter. Now, the stock's up 140% year. So, the question is how good of a quarter is it? It trades at a 50 times price to sales. So, it really needs to put up some decent results for the market to be excited, especially at a 30 billion market cap. And that's what they did. Up 11.9% after hours. [ __ ] still going up 14% now up almost 50% for the year based on this move. S&P 500 basically flat after hours. Hood's flat. Shopify is up a little bit. Micro Strategy is up about 2%. Coreweave's flat. Then Meta is up a little bit as well. Okay, not too bad. Not too bad. Wow. Door Dash board of director buys a hund00 million worth of Dash Door Dash stock. That's the first This was up 3% of the day. That's got to be the first insider buy of Substance. Hundred million dollars. Alfred Lynn, he's also a partner of Sequoia. I think they were one of the earliest investors in Door Dash. Dude, that's a that's a that's an aggressive hundred million dollar increase. You know, if there was a couple million like you usually see from the the board of directors, it's whatever, but a hundred million says something. So, we'll take a look at that news as well on Door Dash. Those were the two earnings we had for [ __ ] and Kredo. Uh let's get a little bit more of that coverage on [ __ ] right here and then we'll also talk about Micro Strategy as they've had some new updates today as well.
>> Move here in overtime. It is up uh 13 and a half. Here are the numbers. Revenues beat $628 million in the top line versus 592 expected. Earnings per share non-GAAP beats as well. A$132 cents versus 80 cents expected. Also a beat on the guide for Q4 got to a range of 665 to 670 million. That's 6675 at the midpoint. Expectation was for 625. Also the EPS guide stronger than expected 144 to 148. So $146 at the midpoint versus just 93 cents expected. Of course, with that Q4 guide, the fullear revenue guide goes up as well. We're going to hear from the new CEO.
>> All right. That's why Mong goes up. That's why Mong goes up. Yeah. If you look at the super investors in this stock, it's three of them, not a ton. You have our boy Chase Coleman, uh, who's had shares for a while. He has 340,000 shares. Then you have Lee Anile from Maverick Capital. They have 136,000 shares. Value Act Capital added to their position by 206% in Q3 for [ __ ] These guys manage about 5.9 billion. Uh and then you have Mr. Dan Ives who I think [ __ ] is part of his Ives 30 if I'm not wrong. Is it? Yes, it is. So on software he has Pounder, IBM, Snowflake, PGA, [ __ ] and InnoData. He added IN Coreweave and Shopify today to this list. This is his Ives A30 ETF and he took out Sound, Service Now and Salesforce. So even Dan Ives had to acknowledge that some of the software names probably don't deserve to be in like the top 30 AI companies and he he replaced them with two Neoclouds which kind of makes sense because Ives has been so bullish on the chip names that the Neoclouds are kind of an extension of the chip names. Um Nebius is there as well. So Nebas, Broadcom, Micron, Cororey, TS, TSM and AMD and Nvidia are the semiconductor names. Then you have Irene which he sees more as a power name. He has that with Oakllo and GE Veronova and Tesla in autonomous robotics and power. And then you have Nebas and Cororeweave in the semiconductor ecosystem. He just likes saying [ __ ] That that might also that might also be the case. So there you go. All right. Congrats if you've got Krato [ __ ] I mean nice to see those moves after hours. Um, it's not easy after hours, especially with high expectations to get a stock to move as high as they are. Wow. [ __ ] 14.3 cradle 15% after hours continuing to make its move. All right, so those are the two earnings that we have today. We got a bunch of other headlines. So, let's get into a lot of the other stuff that happened since the market open and uh we will keep going from there. Yeah. Okay. Let's pull this up right here. So, I I think the first thing let's talk about is Nvidia. I mean, we're on the topic of AI. Uh there was an update from Nvidia's Morgan Stanley or from Morgan Stanley on Nvidia that I think was really important today and definitely got my attention. The other earnings for for uh this week are Octa, Marll, Crowd, GitLab, American Eagle, and Asana. That's tomorrow. And then Wednesday you have Macy's, Dollar Tree, RBC, Snowflake, Salesforce Five Below, C3. Um, and then UiPath. And then on Thursday, you have Docuine, Ulta, Rubric, TD, Kroger. I mean, not tons and tons of huge companies, but definitely companies that are relevant and matter when we're looking at it. Um, what is your price target on Amcore? My price target is closer to 50. There was a price target that came out a couple weeks ago at 62. I don't think that multiple is crazy at all, but I'm more in that 45 to 50 range by the end of 2026. Uh given the price to sales multiple doubles as growth continues to expand. So for for I am core, I wouldn't worry too much about gross margins. It's most more so about their uh sales volume and given the relationship with Broadcom and Google and Nvidia, you know, I think there's a good shot that can and then obviously TSMC with the the FAB in Arizona. Okay, so Nvidia, what was the news that came out today? Well, this update from Morgan Stanley I thought was uh incredibly interesting. So Morgan Stanley went to Asia over the past week and they talked to a bunch of customers to get some more updates on what they think is happening with Nvidia. And here's what they said. We continue to see Nvidia maintaining dominant market shares as threats are being overstated though we aren't exactly sure what will turn sentiment around. So the first thing they're saying is hey like everything we're seeing in our checks are really good but we're not sure what's going to turn sentiment around. And you know, I think there's a lot of commentary on on how to navigate the sort of AI bubble sentiment, Michael Bur's, you know, newsletters, all that stuff is definitely creating a lot of fear. But at its core, this was the sentence that was just incredible to me. They said, "Our belief informed by industry context that Nvidia will have the best economics for most applications is unwavering. Customers biggest anxiety for the next 12 months is their ability to procure enough Nvidia product generally and their Rubin specifically." That to me was just incredible to hear. So Morgan Stanley saying, "We talked to the customers and they are not concerned about an AI bubble. They are not concerned about Michael Bur and his thoughts or depreciation. They are concerned about can we get the product because it is so hard." And that goes very consistent with what Jensen's been saying, not only from a raising guidance perspective, which is like showing that Jensen is not just, you know, blowing hot air. He's like legitimately saying something that's backed up by the numbers, but also what he's saying is that we we have more demand than supply. And you either believe them or you don't. If you believe them, this is one of the cheapest stocks to buy in the Max 7 and it's one of the easiest buys. Uh Morgan Stanley goes on to say, "Of course, everyone wants an alternative, and those alternatives will have good economics for same applications. TPU is by all accounts a solid alternative and one that has meaningfully contributed to several key models. But it's worth keeping in mind that Nvidia just did 51 billion in data center revenues for the quarter, roughly 14x TPU revenues, and put up 10 billion of sequential revenue growth. Itself about 3x TPU revenues. Even in the workloads that were majority TPU, we were informed that there was still a meaningful Nvidia contribute contribution that may have been the majority of data center revenues even if it was a minority of volumes. So I mean like it's I was talking about this with Tanner on his stream like I just like if you own Nvidia I don't think you need to be losing sleep at night and I think the Google TPU conversation is important. It's relevant and and it is very healthy for for Bull to to to question their assumptions by looking at all the different competitors that are out there. But like the numbers tell the story and unless you don't believe the numbers, the numbers are saying demand outstrips supply. Kraton now up 17%, [ __ ] up 15. And the customer checks by a firm like a Morgan Stanley are also solidifying the argument that customers have more anxiety about not getting the chips while analysts have anxiety about if it's a bubble or not, which probably makes a broader argument for why uh it might not be a bubble. Amazon right there 238. Nvidia up a little bit after hours. MongoDB still up 15% and then you've got Krato that is up 17% after hours. Having said that, there's a bunch of other headlines that kind of reinforce this argument for why AI might not be a bubble. And so let's take a look at some of these as well. By the way, Derek, thank you again for the 50 gifted. Appreciate you, brother. You gave 50 gift in the morning. So 50 of you guys just got a gifted membership. Someone someone DM' me on Twitter. They're like, "Aid, I love your channel. What do I have to do to get a gifted membership?" You don't really need a gifted membership because you don't get anything for being a member. Like some some people have like paywalled content, like membersonly content. I I just never done that. I don't know what I would do in the members only. Maybe we can like comb my beard or something. But like I just I So So you don't get anything for being a member. It just supports the channel if you want to pay five bucks a month. But uh yeah, thank you Derek for giving out the 50 gift. Your name gets a little bit of a green color to it. So that's I guess that's the uh the perk of being a member. Amid has beard wall content. Exactly. That's what I got. All right. Some other Nvidia updates. And thank you again, Derek. Deeply appreciate you. Thank you for being here. So, Lyft says its new AI support system built with AWS and Anthropic is now handling driver and rider issues, cutting average resolution time by 87% with over half of the cases resolved in under three minutes in driver usage up 70% in 2025. Lyft is embracing Agentic AI to advance its commitment to delivering great rider and driver experiences, said one of the directors of AWS, General AI. It has been rewarding to see the experts and leaders as both our companies team up to work backwards from the business outcomes Lift is looking to achieve with AI. That's the key to creating meaningful value with the technology. These are the types of stats that we as investors should want to see every day. We should want to see a new company, five new companies, 10 new companies every day come out and say, "Hey, this is what we're doing with AI. This is why we're paying Amazon all this money for AI cloud workloads. This is why we're paying for the anthropic APIs. Like, this is how it's transforming our business." And for a company like Lyft, this is a very specific use case that makes a ton of sense. Then you had um let's pull this guy up right here. Um South Korea start to get access to their chips as well. So South Korea got its first 13,000 Nvidia GPUs including the B200s as a part of a plan to deploy 260,000 chips that analysts peg at about 10.4 billion. Uh but no one cares about that because Iran is dumping. Okay, what's going on with Iran? Iran messed up South Korea's moment right here. 4% down on Mr. Iran. Is she taking down Nebius with her? Nebius is flat. Okay, so this is Iran specific. Is this really off dilution? Why Why is the market caring about dilution, dude? They know they're going to dilute. Iran announces proposed offering of ordinary shares to fund the repurchase of convertible notes. the purchase of Hold on. They're repurchasing convertible notes. Did they say they were going to do that? Iran announces proposed offering of They definitely said they were going to dilute, but I think the market's a bit more annoyed about Well, you know what they're probably doing is they're just extending the convertible notes to a different year. So they're they're kind of like you're they're just they're buying back the call and they're selling a new one almost. That's what it feels like. I don't know if that's that's scary. Yeah, that I don't think that's that's a nothing burger. I mean, if Nebius announced something like that, it would probably be down 5% as well. Also, if I mean, I don't know as well, but I'm pretty sure I have said to their investors they will be issuing new convertibles, which requires buying back the old ones, and they have to raise money to buy back the old ones to sell the new ones. So that it's not that crazy that that's happening. 1 billion I rent intends a private offering of 1 billion 2032 notes and 1 billion 2033 each with up to 150 million additional takedown options proceeds are expected to approximate the cash consideration of the repurchase. Yeah, I don't think that's a big deal. I don't think that's a big deal. I agree with Philip. A lot of this stuff should be priced in. Now again the problem with this is that the market is so afraid of the I mean Chainos you talk about people you know getting the market like scared uh Chainos came out today and said all the Neoclouds are um I mean he didn't literally say frauds but he's he's basically saying they're they're scams. So his argument was that all of this is going to lead to massive defaults in um in these in these companies. Uh Jim Chains raised alarms this week about a growing corner of the debt uh market where AI cloud companies have borrowed more than 20 billion using Nvidia GPUs as collateral. In an interview with Yahoo Finance, he said uh that this is that NeoCloud companies operating AI data centers are currently just lossmaking entities that may struggle to repay loans if their GPU assets depreciate faster than expected. There are going to be a lot of debt defaults. Again, you have to take the other side of this if you believe that AI is real and there's use cases for the GPUs and there's a reason why all these data centers are coming up into existence. But if you think it's all fake, then obviously, yeah, they're piling up a lot of debt for for no reason. But to do that, they're going to have to issue convertible notes, issue equity. I mean, Nebius, didn't Nebas issue like 25 million shares after earnings. So, which by the way was a great time to buy the dip, you know, got this thing got all the way down to 80. I could go back to 80 tomorrow. It's a very volatile name. But, uh, issuing shares, I don't think, is the biggest reason to be bearish on some of these names. [ __ ] right there up 16% and then Kredo [snorts] up 14% still after hours. Oh, Lutnik just brought the South Korea news back. See Iran Iran tried to take away the South Korean news. Look at Lutnik. America will lower tariffs on South Korean autos to 15% effective uh did he meant to say November 1st or December 1st? It looks like effective November 1st. Okay. So, this already happened. It looks like they already did it and they're announcing it right now. Wow. All right. So, you got the commerce secretary saying, "The Republic of Korea has officially moved to implement their strategic investment legislation in parliament. The key step ensures US industry and workers will see the full benefit of President Trump's trade deal with Korea. In response, the US will lower certain tariffs under the deal, including auto tariffs to 15%. also removing tariffs on airplane parts and will unstack Korea's reciprocal rate to match Japan and the EU. Okay, so there you go. Not only is South Korea continuing to buy more GPUs, but we are seeing some of these tariffs come out. Now, I think Korea pledged what 350 billion investments. Japan was like 550 billion. So you do have a lot more of these companies saying they continue to to want to invest which makes sense. The other update I was going to show in the context of AI was actually on Amazon. So again going back to Rufus, Amazon says its AI shopping assistant Rufus is so effective it's on pace to pull in an extra 10 billion in sales and was a broader argument for why Black Friday sales likely are higher. We don't have the exact numbers on Black Friday on Amazon. I think we're going to get those in a couple of uh days after Cyber Monday. Honestly, we might get it tomorrow. Amazon's pretty quick with giving the numbers. Uh and also, they probably want people to know that they're doing well. That might help the stock as Amazon's barely up 5% this year, but it looks like the consumer might not be in the worst given these Black Friday numbers. That is what we got with the AI news. Iran, is that one still down? I think this one gets bought up by tomorrow. So, I don't think the market is going to be that upset about this. I rent still down 5% right here on that convertible offering. Do you think Grab's still buying Goto? We're going to find out by the end of December. I mean, or we're going to have at least a lot better details after December 17th when Goto has their shareholder meeting. So, I think towards the end of December, we're going to have some more data on if that happens. Bit mine right there, that's up 1.73% after hours. Then Coreweave continues to go up. Did Apply Digital have a good day? APLD, wow, this one also 4%. So, a lot of the data center names got hit badly two weeks ago. Coreweave still down a ton, but they are starting to get potentially some momentum back into place. Terry says, "I sold Nvidia, bought I ran today." Dude, isn't it the worst when you finally make a decision to buy a stock and then boom, it just goes down? You're like, "All right, I've done all the research. I've done my DD. I'm pretty sure it's time to buy." I think for that you just have to have a mental perspective of like I'm buying. I don't care what happens and it is what it is because if not you'll just drive yourself crazy every time the stock goes down just because you're buying. Uh speaking of someone who does not go crazy every time they buy something and it goes down. Sailor with Bitcoin. Here's the update on this as he bought another 130 Bitcoin last week at 89,000. Let's get Mackenzie Sagalos for a look at why back.
>> Hey, John. So, this is more of a structural reset. That institutional floor that had been propping up Bitcoin just isn't giving the same support anymore. Spot Bitcoin ETF flows have finally flipped back to net positive, but they're pretty tepid. Three straight sessions of only modest inflows. And then those allimportant digital asset treasury companies that were effectively guaranteed buyers of Bitcoin, Ether, and Salana, they're now staring down potential forced selling strategy. The corporate proxy for the Bitcoin trade has seen its premium fade as investors wait on MSCI's decision that could reclassify heavy crypto holders as investment funds and force index money out. Now, at the same time, liquidity is thinning. Some ETF f holders are now underwater and even longerterm wallets are starting to trim and that leaves a much more speculative retail trader as the marginal buyer here which makes every downdraft hit harder. So in that kind of setup any macro shock hits outsized headlines out of Asia on Bank of Japan tightening, China's weaker data and crypto warnings plus fresh US numbers this week that could sway the Fed all feed straight into a market that is already on edge. Guys, Mac, I'm taking a look at at shares of strategy right now. They're up 1% here in overtime, but down in the regular trading session at 3%. A lot of focus on that name specifically where Bitcoin is concerned because they have been something of a whale in the Bitcoin market over the last couple of years. I mean, it cut to guidance on Bitcoin pricing. Also announced a reserve fund. How should we think about what's happening there? So this announcement this morning that uh strategy had cashed out common stock to put together this $ 1.5 billion US dollar reserve to pay both dividends on preferred stock and then interest on outstanding dividends. This is really about shoring up confidence and giving shareholders an incentive to weather the storm. I will say they do have a standing filing to do so, but the move was seen as, you know, one designed to ensure that investors felt confident in staying in the trade and giving them a reason not to cash out of the stock by reassuring them that they wouldn't be forced to sell substantial Bitcoin holdings. But that the fact that they even had to take that step is part of why you saw the selloff today. This erosion of confidence uh in Strategy's position at the moment.
>> All right, Mackenzie. On top of that, you got Vanguard that is officially allowing customers to get access to crypto uh tomorrow. So, remember when Vanguard came out in 2024 and said we will never allow people to buy IBIT or any of the other Bitcoin ETFs? Well, tomorrow that changes. So, this is a company that has 11 trillion in assets. uh their customers might not be the ideal customer or demographic to buy a Bitcoin ETF, but then again, everyone likes to diversify to some extent. And even if you hate Bitcoin, but you think it's going to go higher, you might want to buy some IBIT. And so maybe that could create a little bit of a kind of sentiment change. But overall, the narrative on crypto is obviously not the best right now. So I think Sailor raising that 1.4 4 billion to be able to I think they have to I think from my understanding they have to pay about $680 million a year on the interest on the preferred equities. So they raised enough to have two years worth of dividends that they can distribute without having to sell their Bitcoin. And I'm I'm assuming you know they think if for two years Bitcoin is flat and they can handle that. Now Bitcoin collapsing over the next two years that would not be a good thing. But I think with rates coming down and a Fed that's going to be a lot more easy on monetary policy. we are stopping quantitative tightening today, December 1st. I don't know. It's hard to imagine Bitcoin is like 50,000 in in two years. It's possible obviously, but if it's not, then they have enough cash to be able to pay their dividends. And obviously, as Bitcoin appreciates, they'll be able to continue issuing equity. D-Wave still down a little bit after hours, down 5% on the day. And then Rock Lab was down 4.2% on the day as well. If you're just joining, I rent is down because of that news on their debt issuing a billion of convertible notes down 7%. Market's always going to hate dilution news, but usually takes about 24 to 48 hours for that to be digested. Uh, a couple other macro updates. So, Nvidia's 13F right here. I thought this was pretty interesting. Um, 12.5 billion is the amount that they had. Uh, coreweave is now 1.8 8 billion versus 3.3 billion down 45% obviously coreweave has taken a hit synopsis they now have a $2 billion stake in that and then Intel they're up 70% on that 5 billion to 8.5 billion so it is pretty strong for them to have these investments synopsis is up 4% Intel's up 70% they have a couple other stakes but then core is down 45% so Nvidia is taking a very birkshshire approach when it comes to AI investing and keeping it all in the same ecosystem and if they can continue to do that obviously that would be very bullish for them as a holding company as they continue to just stockpile all this cash. On top of that, you have the VO monthly fund for November. In terms of net inflows, 20.8 billion net inflow in November, the second highest in at least four years. This also marks the fifth consecutive monthly inflow. V essentially is tracking the broader market. Net inflows are now up 17% to 124 billion on track for its biggest yearly inflow since its inception. And since the start of 2023, which was kind of the start of this bull market, end of 2022, early 2023, the fund has seen just one month with net outflows. So, I mean, you have tons and tons of money that continues to find itself going into essentially America, betting on America, even in the midst of this AI bubble. And quite frankly, the reason that money is probably finding itself into these ETFs is because of all the conversation around an AI bubble. You need that wall of worry. And it doesn't seem like there's a lack of worry when it comes to the AI trade. Iran right here is still down about 6.9%. Again, yes, 1 billion in 2032, 1 billion in 2033, two billion of convertible notes. This is not something the market didn't know. I think they very clearly told the market they were going to have to dilute again. These guys a need to buy the GPUs, b need to acquire the land and have the facilities necessary to be able to rent out all the GPUs and build the data center. So, it's going to take capital. Same thing for Nebia, same thing for Cororeweave. It's just, you know, and Mike Noat said this when he was on the um the show a month ago. He said when you when it comes to investing in the Neoclouds, and he said this about his own company, Galaxy. Um you've got to trust management here. Galaxy down. Wow. Galaxy was at 40 bucks a couple weeks ago. 6% down on the day. This one's still up a lot year to date. It's still up 37%, but I remember this thing was up 140% a while back. Um, that's part of the reason I b Nebbius. Like part of the reason I bought Nebus is I just like management a lot. Like I really like as I've been watching more interviews of them that this guy Daniel Cross, I'm sure you guys know the Nebius community. Uh, he did an interview with the CRO of um, Nebius. I'll put this in the chat for anyone who wants to see it. And I don't know, dude. The more I listen to these guys, I just think they understand what they're doing. They have a diversified business. They have a lot of ambition to scale up the business. They understand that it's a capital intensive business, so there's going to be a lot of debt that's involved. But I think they're very transparent and clear about how they're navigating the debt. And you know, if they actually get to that 7 to9 billion of ARR by next year, if they can even squeeze a little bit of a margin by the end of 2027, I think the stock is relatively cheap. Now, I'm not saying I's management is bad. I just have not studied them as deeply as as Nebius. But but the the moral of the story is it's a bet on management. It's a bet on the stewards of capital that are going to be like effectively diluting to be able to make this stuff make sense. And you got to, you know, pick your your horse here in regards to which one ends up being the best one. So that's what you have on Neb. My Neby's position, by the way, a thousand shares at 97 for those that have been asking. So, that is my average, 97,000 shares. We're We're barely above that, but I did get to DCA over the past couple weeks. Um 9779 $979. That's my average. So, I mean, to me, that's a relatively full position. Thousand shares, I think, is what I would like to roll with over the next couple years when it comes to playing the Neoclouds. And I don't know, I just like them more than a lot of these other names. But I think the other names could move faster than a Nebius just given their smaller market caps. I just happen to like this one. Nebius right there 5.57%. On the day I rent is down because of dilution for those that are joining. Iran is down because they diluted by two billion. Street doesn't like it. Eventually the street will get over it but today they don't like it. And that's what you got. Are you supportive of grabb acquire and go to? Yes, I think they should. That would consolidate the region, increase their margins. It's a no-brainer for me. We hopefully we don't have to pay more than two billion. But I they raised a billion and a half dollars last year or this year. No one knows why. I think it was for this reason. Like I don't I don't think you have the same rumor reported 50 times for no reason. Like obviously they wanted to make an acquisition. The question was just what was it going to be or when was it going to happen and now I think we're closer than never to it happening. Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't, but I do think it would make sense for them to uh to do this. Um, talk about Palanteer. So, we haven't had a lot of updates on Palunteer obviously since the earnings which again were some of the best earnings that we've seen. Now, Palanteer stock did get hit since then as the entire AI market got hit. Bur continues to discuss Palanteer on uh his Substack and Nvidia. I guess you know that's the latest update from an uh sentiment perspective on you know who's bearish and who's bullish. One thing I will say about Pounder and you know don't shoot the messenger here but uh Pounder historically does not have a good December. Pounder's December let me see if I can Yeah, here it is. Palers's December since IPO has a 20% win rate. on average and it's down about 8.2%. On average, I wouldn't expect an amazing December just historically. Now, maybe we pump, but if we're just looking at, you know, the pure history of pounder seasonality, December tends to not be the best. So, it is what it is. Even if you know even if we end out at 150 160 for the year that is still a 120% move in the stock which after the 320% move it had last year I mean I'm pretty happy about that. And then um Hoodie ends up being the best performing stock in the S&P 500 as of now up about 212%. So you know even if the if if Hood goes down 101 15 bucks and it's up 200% for the year like you know those are still incredible returns for a lot of these names. Same thing with Nvidia, up 30%, beating the S&P 500 by double. So, I don't think we need to have a massive move towards the end of the year on a lot of these names. It would be nice, but if it doesn't happen, then it is what it is. Um, what stops you from researching VG below 7 today? You know, honestly, nothing has stopped me. I just I really have never cared about natural gas. I know Chris and Matt love it. I've just like, you know, they love talking about the pipelines and this stuff and that. Like I just I don't know. I've never I've never cared too much about it. I'm not opposed to it. I've just genuinely never cared. So, it's one of those things I'm going to have to really look into. If I did buy it, honestly, it would be because Chris and Matt like it. Like that [laughter] would be it's not like I just have not spent the time to understand VG or Next Decade or anything, but I know they have a lawsuit with BP right now, and that's kind of the overhang that's uh that's on the stock. Wow, dude. Does everyone like Iran? This is like the 50th question about Iran. I I think I'm underestimating how many people like Iran. They they did some dilution after hours, which is why it's down 6%. But goodness, people love. Why don't people love it that much? Like, is there something that special about it? I get the stocks up a lot this year. I understand that. But like like is is is there something deeper than just the data center argument? Uh no, just bag holders asking. Okay, that was mean. That I didn't say that that was mean. I mean, there's probably some bag holders that bought this thing at freaking 70, but granted there's a lot of bag holders that bought Nebus at 130. though I Nebius I understand why people are obsessed with it because there's like all these different parts of their business that are not just data centers and they're trying to become an AI cloud themselves not just like a neo cloud and when you put all that together I I kind of understand the hype and then when you look at the valuation I'm like it's reasonable now I've not dug that deep into IR but their core business is is just the data center stuff the Bitcoin mining stuff is a dud and then from my understanding I don't think they have anything else but I think people just bought it early and now you know people are up a lot on it which I understand and as a result there's a deep deep attachment to it. Yeah. Nebby says like five business dude click their their click house stake itself in the next couple years could be worth 10 billion. The market cap is 20. So it's like there's just a lot of things that I like are in the stock and obviously it's incredibly volatile and moves like core and applied digital and all those names because it's like mainly associated with data centers but I think management has a lot of tricks up their sleeve to make this thing become a lot more valuable over the coming years. Core was up 5% on the day. uh didn't have too many updates on core again took a big hit over the past couple weeks but the debt collateral on core and Oracle is still not something that people like and that's why that's down you have no idea how big I will be compared to Nebius please do please do a deep dive to see for yourself is it really is it really that that big of a story like I really have not sat down to do the research on it. But is it that big of a story? Because if it is, I'll do the work. Neb's just I don't know. It just got my attention more a month ago and so I did the work on them. See, the problem with doing the work on Iran is that like I could be deep diving on another company, but I've already picked a company in the space. Like I'm not buying Iran. I have my Nebas. That's it. Like I've made the decision. So it's I do a deep dive on them. It's just a lot of time committed to understanding these guys. But every other question is about Iran. It's like every single person cares about Iran. Is Vanguard allowing clients to access crypto bearish for SoFi? No. It's It's just It's good for crypto, which is good for SoFi. If more people want to trade trade crypto, by the way, do we want to listen to the [ __ ] earnings call in 15 minutes? Because I really don't care about [ __ ] that much. I'm happy they had a good earnings. I don't know if people actually want to listen. to some Indian CEO speak about MongoDB. Is it an Indian CEO? I don't even know who's the CEO. Let's see. I bet you it's a brown. It's It's of course it's a brown. I can say that. It's not racist when I say it cuz I'm a brown. It had to be. It had to be. Look at that. Chitan CJ Desai. There we go. Every SAS company, bro. every SAS company, it's us. But no, seriously, like like is like is [ __ ] gonna say something super important or are they just going to give you an update on their results, you know? Like I don't know if there's something that exciting there. Okay, most people are saying no. Oh, I wanted to talk about Beyond Beyond. Yeah, like well I was going to say I don't know why the hell Beyond Meat is up 40%. That's what I wanted to talk about. By the way, [ __ ] now 15%. Goodness gracious. Beyond Meat right here up 2%. They're up 40% on the day. I was talking with Tanner about this. I mean, we we can get into a conversation about prediction markets because I thought that was a more interesting conversation and the chat will probably be split 50/50 on my take on this, but that might be more exciting than than Mongo's call. Uh, for those that are joining asking again about Iran dilution, two billion stocks down 5.8%. It was down 7%. So, that one's recovering a little bit, but still down 5%. Um, ASML did hit a all-time high today. ASML 1087, that's up 2.64%. Airbus actually was down 9%. They had some technical issues in a variety of their fleet and so that one got hit. But ASML, yeah, alltime high today. Wow. 1,087 year to date. Up 55% as well for ASML. It is racist. You're looking down on your own people. I I take the opposite side. I'm happy that a Brown is running another tech company. I think that's bullish, dude. That's not racist. That's how they're looking down. That's That's I knew it would be an Indian CEO. Because because [laughter and clears throat] we apparently are the CEO of every freaking tech company. I was right. I I really didn't know who the [ __ ] CEO. Like I have no idea who he is. I just assumed it would be a brown and ended up being a brown. So there you go. That's what you got. I even mispronounced his name. See, I can mispronounce Indian names and it's not racist because I'm Indian, which further proves the point that Indian names are h are hard to announce. But nonetheless, I can get away with it. So, there you go. Yeah, JPAL's speaking at 8 p.m. JPAL is speaking at 8:00 p.m. I don't know what he's going to say, but we'll see. He went to Ruckers. No way. This guy actually went to Ruckers. Hold on. Let's see. Did he legit go to Ruck? Wow. He went to Ruckers. Bachelor's from engineering at Ruckers. This is our guy. Well, if he could become the CEO of a $40 billion company and he came from Ruckers, I mean, maybe maybe your boy can use my Rucker's education. Now, granted, he studied engineering. I studied whatever business business management is. Can you believe there's a degree called business management? I couldn't believe I graduated, bro. Like, I got my diploma in the mail because it was COVID. Sent me this degree. I'm looking at this [ __ ] like bachelor's in business management. I'm like, [laughter] I don't think I know how to manage a business, but okay, that's my degree. It's kind of crazy. They gave me a degree for that [ __ ] dude. But they uh they gave me a degree for it. So, there you go. How often do people ask your name again when you say it, dude? People always pronounce my name wrong, but I don't know. Another I I've had this take for a long time, but I don't think it's racist or controversial to mispronounce someone's name, especially if that name is not an easy name to pronounce. I think people take it way too ser like I've been called a meat or like like amit or like like all this like it's it's like it's a MIT. It's I feel like it's relatively easy to say, but if someone mispronounces it, am I really gonna stop them and be like no, it's a not a like no. Like I don't I don't care enough about my name. I'm not selfish enough or narcissistic enough to be like I just feel so offended that this person messed up my name. It's like well my name is not a conventional name especially if I'm talking to someone who is not from India. So it's like why am I going to be upset that they like know like like there's other things to worry about in life than how someone pronounces your name. That's my take. I know other people feel more serious about having their name pronounced effectively, but I don't care. Like, I really do not care. Okay, so let's get into the prediction market take a I had. If anyone really wants to listen to the MongoDB call, you can go on their investor website. I'll put the link in the chat. I I just don't think we're going to get anything that serious out of that call, but I'll try to get the highlights from it and then we'll uh analyze it tomorrow. Okay, so prediction, markets take. I teased this on Tanner's channel. while I was on his market monitor stream and uh it came from the news update that Robin Hood has now traded three billion contracts in November which is kind of crazy given it was 2.5 billion uh in October. Um here's my take. I'm coming out with a substack later this week on prediction markets but I think everyone who says prediction markets are gambling this is the take. 50% of you are going to hate me for this. Probably 80% maybe 20% will agree with me on this. I I I think saying prediction markets are gambling is wrong. I do not think it's gambling. Let me say that again. I do not think prediction markets are gambling. Simple thesis and I'll go deeper in the substack explaining with all the data that I've been compiling. But or I should rather rephrase it to say if you think it's gambling then you have to think that options are gambling as well. Which then if you think both are gambling then you can you can think that. But I'm more so talking about the people that are like Robin Hood's promoting gambling. Well, if this is gambling, then I think options are gambling. If that's the case, Schwab, Vanguard, Fidelity, SoFi, all the brokerages are promoting gambling. Now, why do I think prediction markets are basically like an options contract? I was thinking about this a lot over the weekend, and I I don't know what's the response to this argument. I'm very curious to see what people have to say to this. Lakers play the Knicks. Prediction market. Lakers 60% chance. Knicks 40% chance. You can bet or speculate or you can take a quantitative approach to looking at all the analytics and data which by the way the sports analytics is a massive industry and there's a lot of money that's spent on looking at player statistics, injury, injury reports, all this stuff to then come up with a conclusion on how you think the games outcome will play out. And you can then make a decision on if you think the Lakers are going to win, pay 60 cents uh for a contract or if the Knicks are going to win, pay 40 cents. If you win, you get 60 cents if you pick the Knicks. If you win on the Lakers, you get 40 cents of upside if you pick them to win the game. If I think Nvidia is going to be 185 by the end of this week, that is an options contract that has an expiration by the end of this week. And then there is something that has to happen. There's a binary event. The Lakers or Knicks have to win for me to win based on whoever I I I I chose. Nvidia has to get to 185. If it does not get to 185 by Friday, I lose all my money. Can we accept that premise right there? So, binary outcome. Either Nvidia is 185 or whatever strike you want to pick on your on your contract, or it's not. Either the Lakers win or they lose. Already, we're starting to see the comparison between one of these is a contract with an expiration, just like the Lakers Knicks game is going to end at 10 p.m. after they play. That is an expiration. And there's going to be one outcome. Either they win or they lose. Either NBA is up or it's down. Now, let's say I buy the Lakers contract at 60 cents. And the Lakers are up 25 with seven minutes left. And that contract is now worth 99. Given the liquidity of the prediction markets, I can sell that contract at that I bought at 60 cents for 99 cents because it's almost like the game is over. So, even if the Knicks come back in the next seven minutes, I don't care because I've made my money. I bought it at 60. I sold at 99. I'm good. If your expiration for the Nvidia contract is on Friday for 185 and Nvidia gets to 182 tomorrow because of whatever reason, there's some news update. And you don't want to deal with the theta decay of making sure Nvidia is well above 185 by by expiration. Guess what? You bought it at 175, stocks at 182, you're up. You have a couple days left on the contract. You don't want to deal with the theta decay. You can sell you can sell the contract the options contract the intra swing movement or intraday intra hour intra week I mean whatever amount of time you want to swing the contract within the life cycle of the binary event is the trading portion of the prediction market which is the exact same thing as an options contract. I am struggling to see the difference and I know a lot of people are agreeing with me here and I'm I'm ready to take the heat for this. I I just logically do not see the difference between someone betting on Nvidia going to 185 by the end of the week and someone betting on the Knicks versus the Lakers. Now, if you want to give a qualitative argument saying, "Well, there's all this analysis for why Nvidia intrinsically should be worth $197 yet." Like, well, if you talk to a Lakers fan, they have tons of analysis for whether the Lakers are going to beat the Knicks. So the analysis, you might not think that analysis is special because you're in the stock market world, but the the sports guy might think your analysis is full of [ __ ] because he's not in the finance world and he's like, "Okay, you think the intrinsic your DCF says 190. Who cares?" But like just like you might think the guy's take on LeBron's injuries are are useless. So my my point is it's all subjective and it it it creates a market binary up or down. Now, if you think both are gambles, then that's fine. But I think the heat that not only Hood is getting, because it's not really tailored towards Hood, it's more tailored to the concept of prediction markets. The the the the heat that prediction markets are getting in general, which is that it's promoting gambling. I I just think that's nonsense because if that's the case, options are gambling. And if we if we agree both are gambling, then that's fine. But the majority of people do do not think that options or well I don't know if the majority of people but a lot of people in finance don't think options are gambling. A lot of them think there's legitimate use cases to how you navigate the derivatives market multi multi-t trillion dollar market for derivatives and SoFi offers options so does Schwab. I mean the fact that you can buy Beyond Meat on Vanguard or Schwab or Fidelity or so how is that not gambling? Should should should should they just like not allow people to buy Beyond Meat? Which may maybe that's an argument you can make. But the point is if if this stock, which is a hell of a G if if Bitcoin, which I mean you can ask a lot of I bet you there would be a ton of people that say buying crypto is like gambling. If that's not like resemblant of some level of gambling, although there is a market for people who want to speculate on the price action, then I don't know why prediction markets are getting as much [ __ ] as they're getting. Yeah. people who bought pound at six called it a gamble as well. Right? So my point is you can call it a gamble but the the the the sort of negative connotation that prediction markets are getting in general and then robin it as a byproduct is promoting the gambling to me is absolutely ridiculous. I don't understand it. I think these people just hate the concept of anything that resembles gambling. And because options are seen as this like sophisticated financial tool, they don't think it's gambling. But at the end of the day, the characteristics of gambling are very uh uh similar to what I see about prediction markets. Now, here's the other thing I realized over the weekend. Prediction markets don't have a house. aka when you're gambling on FanDuel or DraftKings or which I've never used those platform. I I've traded a prediction market contract before. I've never like actually signed up for like a sports book or anything like that. Like I've just never been in that world. But there is a house that has a structural advantage. They have a vig and they are incentivized to make sure you lose because that's how they make money. And if you win too much, they're not going to be happy about that. Prediction markets, you're betting against someone else. Just like if you bought a stock, if you bought Nvidia at 170, like I did last week, someone sold it to me at 170. So far, they messed up and I I did better than them on that decision because Nvidia's at 179. So, no one wins or loses like there's no like I mean, I guess you could say the brokerages win win because the trading volumes, but the same thing with Kashi, Poly Market, and Robin today. They're they're not trading against you. They're facilitating the trade. They're creating market making liquidity so that the trade can go through. But it's not like Khi wins if the Lakers lose and you bet that the Lakers were going to win, which is fundamentally different from DraftKings and FanDuel and a lot of the other sports books, prize bets, all those guys. Like they win when you lose. It's it's a much more of a toxic relationship. And the people that bet on those platforms legitimately think they have structural advantage against the house, which you know, if if if gambling is legal, they should be able to engage in that. But nonetheless, the house tends to win more often than not. prediction markets, you're betting against someone else. Just like with Nvidia stock, I was betting against someone else who sold me their shares at 170 that I deserve to be right on Nvidia being worth more than I'll do a poll right here. But I I you know, for all the people that disagree, what's the counterargument? If if the only counter argument is that both are gambling, then okay, we can agree that both of them are g I'll agree mine the 185 call for next week is gambling. But then don't say that Robin Hood's the most unethical company in the world for offering gambling when Schwab offers you to buy that 185 call for Nvidia. At that point, Schwab becomes gambling as well. Okay. Prediction markets gambling not gambling gambling but so are options. What do we think the stock market is a gamble? So, you know, the stock market like I can understand that perspective that it's a gamble, but I do think over the long term you can make really informed decisions and let compounding take place, which makes it harder for the stock market to be seen as a gamble. Although, yes, you know, any any risk in life theoretically is a gamble. But the type of gamble that people are mad at for the prediction markets, I just think people are dead wrong on this. I really do. I think the bullcase for prediction markets is we are going to be able to price risk on every single important event in human history going forward and the level of data we're going to have on what's actually happening versus the perception of what the mainstream media is telling us what's happening and the quality of that data being used throughout all the different financial products that we use every single day or even non-financial products I think is going to be very valuable and as a result of that uh value that that that to me just means that there's going to be a lot more opportunities for a company that has all the distribution, which in this case might end up being Robin Hood. By the way, Netflix apparently, got an update right here, making a second bid for Warner Brothers. Did you guys know Warner Brothers is one of the best performing stocks in the S&P 500? It's up 124% this year. I saw this yesterday and I was like, why? And then I realized it's not because of earnings. It's because freaking they might get bought out pretty soon. So, Netflix right here making a second bid. Uh, Paramount made the original bid. Netflix up a little bit on the day. I think Netflix should buy them, but I don't I don't uh I don't know if you want to take on Warner Brothers 70 billion of debt to do it. Now, maybe they don't have to buy everything that Warner Brothers have, so they don't have to take on all the debt, but there is a lot of good content on HBO Max, dude. Like, a lot of content. I mean, I watched freaking with my cousin. I didn't know she was such a big Harry Potter fan. We watched um the Chamber of Secrets. I think it's the first time I watched in like 15 years. It's on HBO Max. It's a lot of stuff on HBO Max. I mean, it wouldn't be crazy for them to to capture all that content. What kind of predictions can you make on Hood Only Sports or something like will Pal start the talk with good afternoon? So, they don't have the very hyper specific prediction markets like will Palough or not, but they have 1,700 events that are listed right now. So yeah, they have a lot of prediction markets. Uh but it's not just sports, it's a lot of stuff. 41% say gambling, 12% say not gambling, 46% gambling, but so are options. I think that's fair. I think you can say it's gambling, but so are options. But that's the only take that makes sense to me because if you think prediction markets are gambling, but options are not gambling, I I I legit legitimately have no clue. And if you say, oh, like, oh, prediction like like like options are hedging. Well, so are prediction markets. You can hedge against decisions going the opposite direction and protect like there's there's prediction markets on will Bitcoin get back above 100,000 by the end of December. You can vote no on that, but be long Micro Strategy and if get if it gets above 100,000, then your micro strategy goes up. If it doesn't go below or doesn't get above 100,000, your micro strategy probably is flat or negative, but your prediction market ends up being correct. like that is a neutral hedge or or a a delta based hedge that is more effective for your downside if you think you know if you're starting to get more bearish on Bitcoin but allows you to keep the upside of your MSTR position without having to literally buy micro strategy puts which by the way might be way more expensive than buying no on a prediction market around if Bitcoin gets the gets to 100,000 or not by the end of December and if there's an opposite party that's willing to bet with you aka not the house not Poly market not Khi not Robin Hood someone else across the world that says I think Bitcoin will get above 100,000 by December and you both have a exchange through a prediction market. I how is that literally not the stock market or the options market? I I just I I I don't I don't uh I don't see the difference here. And you know, I wasn't really the most bullish on prediction markets a year ago. Now I think that freaking Robinet should ditch the whole social thing and just go all in on prediction. They need they don't even have a desktop version of this product. I hope they can build that out soon because that would really incentivize people to like even just look even if you're not trading just look at the probabilities on on a screen. But um I didn't think it would be that big. I didn't really think this product was going to be that serious. But like this product is pretty damn important. It's not the stock market because the stock market is buying companies. Okay, but like what happened in November if you bought Nebus at 140? You bought a company and now you're down a lot. Like if you bought Open Door 10 and it went to $4 in November, like yeah, you bought a company, so congrats. You you did something like professional. You bought an equity. You bought an equity stake in a in a multi-billion dollar company, but then your equity stake goes down 50%. Like it kind of feels like gambling at that point. doesn't really feel like you're uh you know meaningfully engaging in the process of something that's so sophisticated that only a only only a important person would spend their time looking into not a degenerate gambler when in reality people who bought Rocket Lab at 70 they got hit pretty hard and so maybe the argument here is well Rocket Lab will one day get back to 70 sure but like at the end of the day you still took a pretty massive hit and same thing for a lot of other stocks so I I I don't know if we can easily just say the stock market is stocks and prediction. And by the way, if you're really well experienced in stocks, the stock market feels like like paradise, right? Because it feels like you have all this extra alpha and advantage to be able to make trades. If you're a very sophisticated analyst of the NFL, you probably feel you have a way better edge than everyone else who's just throwing up these random predictions because they think the Giants are going to upset the Patriots tonight. It's like, well, if you actually understand the analytics and all this, like maybe you think that the I mean, the Patriots game when I looked at the probabilities, I'll pull it up right here, is 75%. And uh the Giants are like 23% or something. What is it right now? It's uh 2575. So, if you think you understand the NFL market more than who the people betting 25 cents on the Giants, which are two and 10 on the season, by the way, Patriots are 10 and two. So, obviously, that's why the Patriots have the the advantage here. This might be a completely mispriced contract just like Palenterer at six or Robin at six was a mispriced or Nvidia at 90 after Deepseek was mpriced. All it is is the pricing of assets. In this case, it's not a financial asset. It's an event. And so, if we are able to price risk on an event, and you have a lot of people that think they know more about the event than other people, just like a lot of people know more about the stock market than your average Joemo that's coming in buying Rocket Lab at 70 because he thinks that rockets go to the moon, right? Like there's your alpha. And so, like I I just think they're the same thing in a different context. one is obviously more sustainable and more uh probabilistic to generate wealth, but nonetheless the tendencies are not necessarily that different. So that's my rant. That's my rant on prediction markets. But the more research I've done, the more I think it it's it's not as uh bad of a thing as people say. And the reason for that is because if we need to price risk for everything, then we're going to need an effective mechanism to do it. And I mean, we saw I mean, the prediction markets called Trump before everyone else did. And a lot of polls said he was going to lose. Like when you have the wisdom of the crowd and when you have an incentive for people to actually go out and find the truth because there's now money on the line, I mean, it's one of the most incredible things I think we've seen in a while. And I think a lot of companies are going to try to hop on that bandwagon. And that's what Hood is doing right now. Now granted, I I don't think everyone should just throw their life savings into the Knicks Lakers game, but the point is the the the the broader essence, the intrinsic value of the prediction market is being seen as net negative. And I don't think that's the case. In fact, I think it's if you're a diehard Lakers fan, you can make a lot of money betting on the Lakers games because you might just understand the team whether they're going to win or lose better than the average person. And so there's a mispriced opportunity in the world that is being distributed through Robin Hood, Koshi, maybe Coinbase eventually. And you can take advantage of that. And I think more and more opportunities for people to take advantage of mispriced opportunities and having those opportunities even being in place in the in the first place through an event contract. That goes back to what Vlad has been saying about people are going to start investing for fun and trading for fun in the world of AI because AI quite frankly might make it more of an activity that people have uh access to because it's more democratized because goods and services labor etc starts to go in the opposite direction. So I don't know I think there's a variety of different mechanisms to think about this but obviously the majority of you think it's gambling as I can see in the poll. which it's a fair point but if it is gambling then I think options are gambling as well if the thesis depends on a binary outcome then it is gambling that is my opinion yeah I think that's fair but again I that's I think options then are completely gambling derivatives are gambling at that point like there is literally no difference between an options contract and a prediction market binary outcome expiration date I don't care if if the if it's a leap if you have two year okay in two years you have a binary outcome either the stock got to the price that you wanted or it If it didn't, you lose all your money. If it did, you make money. That's a gamble. And if you say, "Oh, well, I can trade it before the expiration date." So, so can that. That's the beauty of prediction markets. You can trade it before the event comes to an end. It's liquid. It's a liquid market. The volume is there. Now, stock market has a lot more market makers to make it very liquid. And I think that's what's happening in the prediction market ecosystem over the next five years. We'll see that. But the point is, um, it's almost the exact same thing. At least that's how I'm thinking about it. [laughter] It isn't gambling if you know you're going to win. That's true as well. That's true as well. All right, what else do we have? Uh, I don't think we have any other crazy news. We talked about Nvidia, talked about Amazon. For those that didn't see it, the Nvidia Morgan Stanley report I thought was just incredible. Morgan Stanley said quote uh customers biggest anxiety for the next 12 months is their ability to procure enough Nvidia product generally and Vera Rubin specifically based on the customers they talked to in Asia which again to me uh makes me think Nvidia is a buy at $180 like you got the market's worried about AI bubble customers are worried about when can they get more chips so it doesn't feel like this should be the biggest concern we do have an analyst on Bloom Bloomberg giving their take on Nvidia especially on this circular financing stuff given Nvidia invested in another company today uh two billion in synopsis. Here's what they had to say about what's going on with Nvidia.
>> First day of December and actually a couple of hours ago we started things looking pretty bleak. Nvidia has turned a corner which has kind of changed a little bit the tone but basically tech lower crypto lower and we started December in riskoff mode. Why?
>> Yeah. I mean, we had a really solid rally last week. Um, you know, on those expectations that the Federal Reserve will be cutting in
>> I didn't expect the British accent, but I love it. I wish I had a Brit. Could you imagine three hours in the morning and three hours in the afternoon as a Brit? Like, could you imagine if I like that? Like, I that I think that would take the show to make Can AI make my voice into a British accent the whole day? like I think that would be amazing
>> interest rates in December. But as we start off this new week, there's been a a turnaround in that sentiment and I think the catalyst for that for me came from Japan. So we heard Bank of Japan Governor UEA um adopting a more hawkish tone really ramping up sort of expectations for a December uh rate hike. Now what does this mean and why is it important? Basically, there are concerns now that we might see the unwinding of the carry trade. So, that's when we sort of have uh institutions, investors borrowing in the low interest yen um in order to invest in higher yielding riskier assets. Now, if we're seeing the Bank of Japan raise interest rates, we've got yields in Japan, 10-year yields at 17-year high, there is this concern that we're going to start to see the repatriation of those funds back to Japan. Now, this is important because liquidity changes. Um, and those sort of,
>> by the way, this is why I think Bitcoin got hit overnight. Again, Japan's 10-year bond shot up to 1.84. The two-year also shot up highest since 2008 on both of those bonds, which means investors sold bonds. Yields go higher, yields go higher. Yen appreciates, yen appreciates. People sell their tech stocks or their crypto to cover their short on the yen. Like, we all know what this yen carry trade is. The question is, is it a structural thing that unwinds Bitcoin to like 50,000 that unwinds the S&P to like 6,000? Like, if that doesn't happen, then maybe it's a threat and maybe it's not like an aggressive threat that people should be worried about. But I think that is the reason for why Bitcoin sold off last night.
>> Sectors of the market such as crypto, such as tech, which are really sensitive to liquidity or where we're seeing that sort of risk off come through. December historically strong particularly for technology right and when I was on vacation last week what a week to pick and we had the Thanksgiving holiday circular financing was a factor Nvidia in particular weighing on the index level you just heard the reporting about how the synopsis Nvidia deal is not circular financing to the mind of the leaders of those companies do you buy it and how big a factor is that in this market right now
>> really good question I mean this is front and central I think in a lot of investors minds at the moment, particularly as soon as we hear the name Nvidia. Nvidia's been investing in firms that, you know, are or will be major customers of its products. So, you know, that has raised concerns um within sort of the markets and we've seen that play out in previous weeks where Nvidia really has come under a lot of pressure. It does feel like that that is sort of starting to turn a little bit of a corner. Obviously those comments today I think will help a little bit to ease those concerns but at the end of the day there is this sort of worries surrounding circular financing and they're not going to disappear overnight and that's
>> now again if synopsis uses this 2 billion to be able to build out their architecture infrastructure GPU fleet to then generate better earnings then it's not circular it's just Nvidia having an equity stake in a company that also happens to be a client but also is using their products and services to generate actual earnings which is the same thing hopefully open and anthropic are doing as well. So again like the circular financing argument is just getting weaker and weaker to me when these companies continue to put up earnings and MongoDB is another one. Let's hear from the CEO who was on CNBC just now that is seemingly using AI to their advantage and putting up some decent earnings. spoke with new MongoD
>> up 21% now after hours
>> B CEO CJ Desai four weeks into the job about the growth
>> one of the thing that really is super good to see and encouraging is that our customer count continues to grow very healthy across our self-service channel and now we are at 62,500 customers and for year to date 8,000 new customers growing 65% % year-over-year. So overall just exceptional quarter raised the guidance for Q4 and the year and the business has a very strong momentum.
>> Many public software companies have been telling me over the past two years that while AI interest is picking up from customers that's still not a material driver of their revenue. But with these results I asked SAI if that's changed.
>> That story is still the same. Uh we are still fairly early. Our AI traction is real and the science are encouraging but the numbers that they speak for themselves is primarily driven by our strength in core business. So even though there are many enterprises who are currently using MongoDB for their agentic workloads and they are trying to ensure that their agents are fundamentally transforming their business but it's nothing of scale yet.
>> Well given that it's not AI yet. I asked what is driving the upside under the hood?
>> I would say this is tail of two cities in a very positive way. So on the high end of the market or towards enterprises and large enterprises we had significant growth in the America's large customer and we also saw broad-based trend in Europe, Middle East and Africa. So that drove the growth in the enterprise and the large enterprise segment for third quarter. In addition, our self-service business delivered exceptional results and we had many many customers including digital natives, AI natives and developers around the world who are building on MongoDB. And
>> so it seems like their argument or at least the CEO's argument it's not even about um it's not even about AI. their core business is just doing very well and uh as AI increases by the way this is the Iran news for those that are wondering again two billion dollars of convertible notes as AI increases efficiencies margins and then the actual go to market that they have these earnings should continue to get even better so I mean that's actually very interesting to hear he I mean the CEO is saying it's not really AI that propelled our earnings our our core business is just doing very well which means there's a lot more upside that can come outside of the the core business narrative potentially from AI. So that means the only real software company that is saying AI is leading to massive massive growth for us right now is Palunteer. I mean Adobee's not doing it. Salesforce doing 10%. Um you know the the the the cyber security companies are growing but they're not growing like pounders 60%. So you just don't have a lot of SAS names. I think that's why Dani has removed Salesforce and Service Now from their service now is growing at like 20% which is still really good but and they have said that AI is a a big part of why customers are choosing to go with them as customers want to increase their margins but but realistically I think it's pure yeah snowflake that that's true snowflake did put up like what 30% growth last quarter wow service now down 22% this year I thought this thing was up more snowflake is having a good year they have earnings I think they're going to crush earnings I mean I don't know what the stock's going do because the stock stock is up, but they have started to reverse a lot of the Wow, Snowflake 60% this year. They have started to reverse a lot of the issues they had in 2024. And so, I guess you could say Snowflake is using a lot more uh AI to generate an ROI. Service Now stock split soon. We got Netflix. We need to get Costco and Meta now. We need to get Costco and Meta to do splits. Again, Iran, for those asking, dilution of two billion. That's why it's down 6%. I don't think it's that big of a deal. I don't know everything about Iran's uh unit economics, but I mean, it's a capital intensive business and so they're going to need money. So, I don't think the street should care too much. Service Now just 30% more revenue than Pounder. Okay, that's true. But a lot of companies doing more revenue than Palunteer. It's about the growth rate. [laughter] That's what I hold on to. I was like, well, if you look at the growth rate because look, I get like even it's I I've said this so many time people think I'm just like a permable on pounder, which like yes, I am. But I've been objective about the valuation. I get that it's hard to say it deserves to be half a trillion dollars. Like I get it. But the one thing that is undeniable is the growth rate on the top and bottom line is just not met by any other software company. And I think there is a world where Palanteer can can can mature in this range, hopefully expand, but even if it matures in this range and grow into the valuation, then it's not going to seem like the craziest valuation in the coming years. And that's also um I mean again we've seen this we've seen this play out with Amazon. We saw this play out with Tesla even though Tesla's not growing anymore. They got to get back to that growth. But like these stocks have always been quote unquote expensive and overvalued. But they had something special and you got to believe that poundry has something special if you're holding on to pounder. And you know that's why I think it continues to maintain that premium. There's another AI story that came out as well. Uh, this is a new company called Runway. They put out a new video model that's challenging OpenAI Sora and Nano Banana. I've never heard from this CEO before. So, let's take a listen to this right now. But they did put up a new model and once again a lot of these models, I mean, all these models are doing this based on training on Nvidia GPUs. effect on the leaderboards. Certain of them already have you at the number one spot. Crystal, what is it that yours offers versus Sora 2 versus the latest Google offering?
>> Yeah, that's true. So, uh we just released Runway Gen 4.5, our latest video model and it tops uh the charts in terms of performance and benchmarks across all other models, which is uh kind of like a big deal within research. It's the first time uh a company has lead led the leaderboards and and this company not being basically a large research lab. Um it's a model that surpasses pretty much all other models uh with incredible consistency, really good realistic results and um just like across the board amazing creative results. So really really excited to get this model out and and have people use it. Now you had it out there on the leaderboards with a pseudonym before it was launched in public crisal and you had it called David. Is that a Goliath David construct? Are you how are you competing against these vast generous AI companies?
>> Yeah. Uh it was a little bit of a play with with that with David and Goliath. I think we've we've managed to out compete the largest research labs by being very focused. I think it's the era of both research and efficiency.
>> See, this is also crazy. You've got a startup that apparently is beating trillion dollar companies and the benchmarks on their video generation models in the age of AI that do not have the um bankroll that a Google and OpenAI has, but they just have really passionate people that want to see this stuff exist in the world. And this is the age of innovation we're living through. Now maybe this company fails, maybe this company wins. But the fact that all these companies are competing, the beneficiary again is Nvidia. But the fact that all of them are competing and trying to put this technology out into the world, I mean, we win as consumers as well. And so it's just incredible to see them going after this. And if you're able to maintain the focus as a team, uh you're able to deliver uh kind of groundbreaking results. And we're proving this. This is the first time I think we're again anyone has kind of topped the leaderboards not being a large wellunded uh research lab. Um and and I think part of it is really like the team uh and it's really also the vision. We've been working on this for almost seven years. We started working on video models when when there weren't even like the other boards to start with. And I think eventually you build some sort of intuition and really good like momentum as to how to improve these models over time. And look, this is still like the worst the models will ever be. And so we have a bunch of more releases coming up that I think uh will further improve both pre-training and post-training. And so we're very excited for that.
>> Dude, is that a monkey doing a push-up? This is crazy. That's a monkey doing a push-up. And as he said, this is the worst. This is the worst it's ever going to be. Here's the Shopify president on the state of the consumer and what happened on Black Friday. the forecasters, the predictors say that this will be another record shopping season in aggregate. The data available to you, what are you seeing? What are what are the trends?
>> Yeah, you know, I I heard what Spencer said there. I mean, look, Friday was another record-breaking Black Friday weekend. We saw about $6.2 billion in sales for Black Friday. That's up about 25% from last year. We saw peak sales of $5.1 million per minute on Friday. That happened around noon on Friday. That's up from 4.6 million last year as well. And uh if you pull up actually anyone can see this bfcm.shop, you can actually see global commerce happening right now in real time. We are currently seeing about 2.5 million per sales in sales per minute. Uh about 25,000 orders per minute. And we've seen just shy of 70 million unique shoppers buy from Shopify stores. So it certainly is shaping up to be another great day. and and happy to go into some of the merchants and some of the trends that we're seeing across
>> Shopify.
>> Holly, what I'd like to do is actually take a sort of geographic breakdown. Yeah.
>> Because in the limited data that that we went through with Spencer, I think we're recognizing different speeds of growth in particular.
>> US versus Europe. Could we start there?
>> Yeah, sure. I mean, look, if you look at top selling countries across the world where Shopify sells, we have millions of stores. In places like the US, we power 12% of all e-commerce. So, we have a really great view of things. US, UK, Australia, Germany and Canada are the top five. Look at top three selling cities. You see LA, New York and London. Uh in US alone, LA, New York, and San Francisco were the top three. The other thing that we also saw is crossborder. But put a CEO's name in the chat that needs this guy's energy cuz I'm not fully convinced that this guy doesn't does blow that this guy doesn't do blow before the interviews. I you don't see a lot of people like this from the seauite have this type of energy. So what CEO needs this guy's type of energy when they're talking on CNBC 17% of orders uh were crossborder orders so shipped to a different country as well. And then in terms of top trending merchants that we saw, we saw Hatch, which is sort of this it's something called the restore three, which is this.
>> Yes, I'm sorry to say it, but Noto, if Nto had this type of energy, and I love Noto, and he's great, but if this type of energy is different, and yeah, sometimes Elon needs this type of energy as well.
>> Phone free alarm for kind of morning morning routines. Crunch Labs has a sort of kids build-it-yourself monthly toy subscription. Brook Linen in on their super plush robe. And then Bass has their weekender travel bag as well. So we're seeing across a bunch of different verticals do really well. But a big thing actually that we're seeing now is last year seemed to be a lot a lot of talk about getting outside. Gifts were about the products being sold were about, you know, things like skiing or hiking or camping. This year seems to be that home is really, you know, the winner here where people are buying things for their home, whether it's kitchen stuff for the kitchen or puzzles or blankets. Uh but generally consumers are buying from brands they love. And we're fortunate those brands are on Shopify.
>> What does that crossber stat that 17%
>> signal to you? Is that growing? I mean, how does that stand up to last year when perhaps Taros went such a headwind?
>> Yeah, I mean it it's it what it I think it means that consumers generally are somewhat geographically agnostic. They want to buy from their favorite brands. You know, we heard from Gym Shark. They had their biggest Black Friday sale ever online. AG1, Athletic Greens, was up 50%. Brunt Workware got an order every 5 seconds. So if you think about what where consumers are purchasing, they're buying from brands they love. The vioris, the figs, the aloe yoga, the onunnings of the world. Uh and I think they're agnostic to where those are coming from. The other thing that we're seeing which is really interesting is that this really wasn't just about discounts this year. People shop brands not channels. We're almost living in sort of a postworld channel where you know the consumers bounce from a Tik Tok video to an AI agent to a website to a store. Even in video games like Roblox where Shopify powers commerce, the brands that really won the the weekend made the experience feel the same everywhere they were. And uh and that that that continues today.
>> Let's talk Harley.
>> Dude, Shopify's crushing it. I think they were down 6% cuz uh cuz Shopify they had an outage today. Correct me if I'm wrong. But if that's the reason the stock was down, I mean those numbers are pretty crazy. Yeah. Down 5.9% on the day. stock was up a lot uh for the year. Still up a lot. Your day 40%. All right. So, it went from 45 down to 40. I mean, overall, what it's showing is that either people are putting all this money on their credit card and it's all fake. This 25% year-over-year growth and uh merchant sales topping uh six billion for the first time. Like it it's either all fake like in terms of the sales are happening but the sales are being financed by like money that people don't have or there's disposable income and people are deploying that disposable income in a way that's uh allowing them to continue propping up this economy. Or you can make an argument that people haven't been spending for the past couple months um because they've just been like kind of scared about tariffs and maybe they're starting to let loose as we get into the holidays. I mean the the most obvious answer here which you know at the end of the day is a bearish point is that a lot of people are doing this on credit cards and unfortunately we've seen credit card delinquencies at their highest in 14 years. Now we haven't seen the deep ramifications of that yet. In fact, again, like like it's a lot of nuance trying to understand this data because JP Morgan's credit loss provisions came in 400 million less than expected or sorry, higher than expected, which is a good thing because they they put out a lot more money than they actually needed. They put out 3.4 billion. They only needed three billion in credit losses. Um, so they were conservative and and and and it wasn't that bad. And Cityroup, TFC, all these other banks said, "We don't think delinquencies are an issue." Now, eventually delinquencies could be an issue. they're not going to be an issue immediately, but it's something to track. I don't know if it's something that is hyperindicative of the state of the consumer. Midwest says it's just rich people buying. That's fair as well. I mean, obviously, there is a large bifurcation in the economy. Did an entire deep dive on that. I'll leave that in the chat for those that want to read it. And so, yes, there are a lot more people that are spending um that potentially are just, you know, they're asset owners and they're spending money. But but then again, the level of analytics we've seen on on Black Friday across the board from a variety of companies makes me think it's it's not just people that are doing well. It's everyone who's spending. And now again, a lot of that might be on credit, but nonetheless, it does seem like more and more people are spending. By the way, uh first time since 2021, gra I was about to say grass. gas three bucks a gallon officially. So Trump is trying to get these gas prices down below three. As you can see right here in California, it's still 320 to 450. Uh in Texas, 240 to 260. I haven't seen 240 gas in a long time. I think in New Jersey it's still closer to like 295, but you are seeing that come down. Now Venezuela complicates things. if we actually get into uh conflict with them. But you are seeing these gas prices continue to come down as oil prices come down, which is net good for inflation. 199 in Oklahoma. Wow, dude. I remember when gas was a dollar like 50 during COVID. That was crazy when that happened. That was pretty wild. And it was honestly it was like 230 the whole year but then obviously CO took away all the demand and you know it came back down. Um I don't know if we ever get back to that level but below three would be good. Um Los Angeles is nowhere 350. Yeah I mean I was at Cal I was in California in September and I still saw $5 gone. California just continues to be one of the most expensive spots in the world and so is New York. But nonetheless, California is still pretty expensive. Salesforce says global online sales as of 12 p.m. Eastern 17.3 billion. Wow. Cyber Monday 3.4 billion up 3% year-over-year. And that's just on Salesforce analytics. Amazon hasn't come out yet and Shopify will have their own data um tomorrow or not tomorrow but hopefully tomorrow. I mean they give out the data pretty quick but after Cyber Monday. Tennessee 255 more like $5 in the Bay Area. Yeah, dude. The Bay is expensive. The Bay is just ridiculously expensive. Not if you drive a Beamer. I'm still paying north of 350 in Jersey. That's what you get for having a Beamer. [laughter] But the trade-off is, you know, you get to have a Beamer, which isn't the worst thing. We do have some uh Apple headline right here. Wow. AI chief stepping down at Apple
>> of 2026. Amar Subramania, Microsoft's corporate VP of AI is joining Apple as VP of AI, reporting to Craig Frederri. While Jan Andrea's organization will shift to other senior executives, um, Apple says that Jan Andrea is retiring. Some might say it's after a string of AI misses for Apple with no real AI strategy. I'm not sure how you interpret this, Karen.
>> Same
>> because of the misses,
>> right? I I Yes, there's that also. I mean, clearly they've taken a very different approach to how to spend or not spend on AI, which in the end might prove to be the right course.
>> Maybe she got a raise. I mean, the stock the stock did better than the
>> 200 to 280 since August on Apple, the stock everybody hates and and that's that's really the story. I mean, nobody wants to own it. Nobody feels there's AI in there. That's the reason you're buying it.
>> Well, maybe now with Microsoft's AI guy going to Apple, there should be more AI in it and it might juice the stock even more. I don't know.
>> Yeah. I I mean, ultimately, I think with Apple, it's not easy to buy the valuation. And it is easy to buy the, you know, call it the the install base and all the dynamics around AI that the the Google dynamic. If Google is winning in their core search, that's good signs for Apple to me.
>> The winners are now the people that are not spending and Apple isn't closed on an alltime high.
>> Isn't that crazy? Apple all-time high today. But the reason they're getting there is because the market doesn't like capex anymore. It's like in 2023 if you were spending on capex the market was like double it, triple it, quadruple it, more capex, more capex. We'll take your stock higher. Now it's like, well, we don't really know what you're doing with this capex. Although the capex is still incredibly important, but the reason meta is discounted so much is because the market's like, we're not so sure if we're going to give you a premium if you keep spending.
>> It is. So Tim, Karen, and C have all been talking about this for sure. I don't know if that means we're further along in the potential CEO choice, right? Succession.
>> He's been passed over and so therefore is leaving.
>> Yeah.
>> What about Heave Meiser?
>> I see.
>> That's kind of crazy. Apple year to date has a better return than Meta. 16% is Apple. Meta and Amazon don't add up to 16%. Meta Year to date is now basically red. No, 6% after the latest bump and Amazon is barely five, right? Amazon is six. All right, so 12%. Dude, I really, guys, I really think we're going to talk a lot more about 2026 planning as we get into the end of the year. I really think the Mag 7 play is Amazon, Meta, and Nvidia for next year. Now, again, if you own Google, I don't think it's a sell. I don't know if it's the easiest buy at 300. probably still does really good next year, but if we're purely looking at multiples, Meta, Amazon, and Nvidia, like, and I know Microsoft's in that conversation, but Microsoft multiple is still a bit elevated from those three. Um, Amazon's my favorite. I have Nvidia, and you know, I bought Meta, do not have a massive position on Meta. I still would like to know a little bit more about how their capex is going, but you know, Meta is eventually going to get back to 7,800 bucks. Like, this is not going to be stuck at 650 forever. So maybe that's the play for 26. Maybe the play is just the rich get richer and it doesn't have to be too too complicated. Shopify. Yeah, still down 5% on the day. What about Oracle? Dude, I I really do need to Oracle is worth a deep dive. I feel like I should know way more about this company and I don't to be honest. Like I know cloud computing, databases, like I couldn't actually tell you what these guys do in a meaningful way. Um the problem with Oracle is again like I think it's undervalued but their debt to equity ratio is 500%. Like you know these companies that say we need to get an ROI on AI, Oracle better get an ROI from AI because you can't take out 40 billion of debt and then not show the results. And I think that's the scary part about Oracle. But then again, like, do we really think Larry Ellison's going to leverage up 40 billion and then not deliver? I don't know. I think I think it'll play out, but but you're going to need the sentiment around AI in 2026 in general to play out. And this is actually the last thing we should talk about. So there's this post. I want to read this post to everybody. I think it's a really good synopsis of what is happening going into 2026. It's a little long, but I'll get through it because I'll be fast as I read. But here's all the things that are happening right now in the market. Silver's at almost 60. Gold's at 4,300. The Fed is cutting rates. Earnings growth the best in years. Midterm elections upcoming with all signs of massive fiscal stimulus. Largest tax refunds in years expected in 2026. Massive tax incentives from the big beautiful bill coming. Genesis project, that whole like Manhattan project for AI is now allowing governments to partner with private companies. trillions in FDI committed new ultra dovish Fed chair announced in the next couple weeks probably Kevin Hasset which by the way there's a prediction market around he's trading at 63% right now the 10 years around 4% the fact that the 10ear is not blowing up to like 5% is amazing right now no tax on tips overtime or social security the President Trump wants a 1% Fed's fund rate developed economies outside the US Germany and Japan ready to embark on a massive fiscal spend Japan already did it by printing $120 billion central banks across the world are cutting rates Also, they're buying gold. Stock market has become the de facto Ponzi pension plan for the US. It cannot collapse. He's 1,000% right about that. Like, stock market collapses, everything collapses. And Trump knows that. Debt to GDP levels in most developed nations essentially guarantee that all steps will be taken to avoid recession and lower tax receipts that would entail. AI advancements in science, biotech, robotics, and other areas potentially ready to unleash new productivity miracles. S&P margins are out of this world. He's right about that, which is why we're trading at 22 times forward. Uh the Treasury is openly advocating for a weaker dollar, bullish Bitcoin. China's economy is in debt and they're ready. They're getting ready for more stimulus. US fiscal deficits running close to two trillion, which means guess what? We got to grow out of that. This is kind of Elon's argument about AI and robotics being the only way to deal with the the the deficit issue. The wealthiest generation in human history has been and will continue to spend like crazy regardless of the employment picture. If you're getting close to retirement and you've generated a nest egg over the past 40, 50 years, not only are you going to pass that down to your children, but you're also probably going to spend that money, which, you know, is is is um is um not contingent on necessarily having a job. Consumer spending is up. Best Black Friday ever. First one trillion Christmas spending season expected. Global equity markets having their best year in decades. In fact, the United States is the worst performing market across the entire world. But yes, it is harder to afford a new house than it than it used to be and pees are a bit elevated. So, I guess I'll short the market. I mean, again, when you hear all of those arguments and the other thing that he didn't mention is that the the net inflows for US ETFs is topping 1.2 trillion this year, like but pees are up a little bit and houses have become more expensive, so I'm going to go short. I don't know. Is that like is that the best argument or is that an argument of someone who just call a top and get all the credit for calling a top? Uh Dan Ives on CNBC. Let's go to him and then we'll be we'll be done for the day. Here is Mr. Dan Ives.
>> Big tech. If I think about like big tech in the AI trade that's probably going to be up anywhere from, you know, 20 to 25%. But I think it's really the AI revolution stocks. What I view is sort of the winners up 20% in a minimum. Look, it's my view this is just starting the next stage of the AI revolution. I mean all of our checks are shown even in the last three four weeks about 20 25% deals are actually accelerated from the hyperscalers. So that's why I view it from software to cyber security the infrastructure. I continue to view it as you know this is just the beginning of the monization of the AI revolution. What do you make of these deals though, excuse me, that Nvidia has been making in terms of investing in a partner which is basically a customer because in this case the deal is that synopsis will use CUDA and so will become a paying customer. So they're investing $2 billion in stock um in order to gain this customer at some point do you question that or is that all fine? Look, I mean as someone like myself that covered tech late 90s vendor financing. So obviously, you know, worries is that red flag. Look, I view it as this is an AI arms race in terms of everything that's playing out. So for Nvidia, for Open AI, for what we see AMD and others, like they're putting stakes in the ground, I view it as for every dollar they spend, they're getting back$8 to$10. Now, in the near term, there could be questions until it plays out, but I think we're going to look out two, three, four years at these deals, and that's how like Nvidia, they're going to continue to be like that's the one chip in the world that's fueling the AI revolution. And I don't see that slowing down. That's why I love everything Jensen's doing.
>> Were you surprised? I was. I'm curious that Synopsis didn't trade better today, understanding that stock went from 650 to 420 in a straight line. that announcement today, $80 billion company, $2 billion investment. I would have it traded well. I thought it would traded a lot better than it did today.
>> Yeah, it's a look, I think, you know, every if you look at Oracle $100 dip ever since open AI, the view almost like good is bad like being associated in video open AI is that like a too big to fail moment. But I think we're going to look out like I'm surprised the stock didn't trade higher. I actually I think there's something where I view that as more of an opportunity. give my view like that's one of those sort of second third derivatives of this AI revolution trade into 26.
>> So Dan on the peripheral so look look at a palunteer it's been a name that you've been bullish on. It's been hammered right after earnings. Is this one that you double down on given the valuation where it's just so outsized for everyone to actually look at it and think that they want to buy it even cheaper than it was but it's not really substantially cheaper. Do you buy it here? I mean, Steve, to me, you triple down because it's my view on Palunteer. I'm not I get it's expensive today, but in the next two, three years, I think there's a trillion dollar market cap because 20 30% of all the deal for the trillions of dollars being spent on the use cases. I mean, they're playing a different game in terms of any AI use case in the enterprise, Palanteer's first call. So, that's still not reflected in the stock. And I get it's super expensive and it's become sort of a, you know, an emotional bull bear debate, but I think this is a stock that, you know, we've talked about 200, 225, 250 in terms of my view where it goes.
>> Dan, great having you here. Um, especially so we can see the full technicolor
>> seafoam. So yeah, question. So we all ask, let's let's get this out of the way because I can't concentrate until I know. Is that seafoam? Is that pistachio? Is that
>> key lime? I think is that mint jeulip?
>> It's it it's seafoam. Seafoam. Seafoam is is what I would call it. Melissa had it right. Okay. So you say look to the second, third and fourth derivatives in the AI trade in 26 and on some level the second derivative in 25 was almost you know like a broadcom. But where where would you want to be? Would it be AI? Would it would it be some other parts? Would it be would it be it would it be utilities? Would it be other parts of that second and third derivative?
>> I think three areas. One software we've talked the use cases. Palanteer [ __ ] you talked about. I mean that's obviously one of our favorites. also snowflake in terms of where I view that and then cyber security I think crowd strike I look at that I look at zcourer I look at pow and then from an infrastructure perspective you know you look at nebus you look at core weave you look at the more infrastructure players that I think are all playing out I mean that to me is going to be the key trade it's trying to identify the second third fourth derivatives as this all plays out
>> so what do you think is the biggest risk to the whole story is it debt is it something open a what is it
>> I think the biggest risk is just the view where okay just like a meta is a good example capbacks capbacks then all of a sudden they take the stock down does that ultimately impact management teams to be less aggressive about capbacks I don't think it will be because it speaks to my view capback's big tech closer to 600 billion as it plays out we're going to go through these moments deep right we're going to go through worries about you know what tariffs US China and I get it but to in my view those are the opportunities to own these names, not the times to panic.
>> Um, Open AI is in the center of everything and I'm wondering how how you view Open AI in terms of its ability to finance all of the deals that it has made. Um, given that we have limited access to information on Open AI and what if Open AI stumbles, what happens to the overall AI trade? Yeah, look, obviously central to it, a too big to fail moment, but my view is like they're central in the three to four trillion that's going to be spent in the AI revolution. I don't worry that that's necessarily one of those sort of moments that there's going to be a sort of crack and a 99 moment. I continue to view this as a 1996 moment rather than 1999 2000 bubble moment. But open AI, they're just starting to play build the stack. Now, there will be concerns, but when you look at debt relative to what I don't know why my YouTube signed out, but I will go back in. Bearish Google randomly signing me out right there. But let's pull back up. I mean, the same argument Dan has been making for a while on a lot of these AI names at its core. But let's pull this up right here.
>> The biggest risk is just the view where okay, just like a meta is a good example. capbacks, capbacks, and then all of a sudden they take the stock down. Does that ultimately impact management teams to be less aggressive about capex? I don't think it will be because it speaks to my view. Capback's big tech pie closer to 600 billion as it plays out. We're going to go through these moments deep, right? We're going to go through worries about, you know, with tariffs, US, China, and I get it. But to in my view, those are the opportunities to own these names
>> to information on Open AI. And what if OpenAI stumbles? What happens to the overall AI trade?
>> Yeah, look, obviously central to it, a too big to fail moment. But my view is like they're central in the 3 to four trillion that's going to be spent in the AI revolution. I don't worry that that's necessarily one of those sort of moments that there's going to be a sort of crack and a 99 moment. I continue to view this as a 1996 moment rather than 1999 2000 bubble moment. But OpenAI, they're just starting to play build the stack. Now, there will be concerns, but when you look at debt relative to what's been taken out of what revenue is going to be, I mean, from Oracle and everyone else, that's a smart move. I just I my even though that maybe they misspoke in terms of too big to fail moment, that's not a concern for me because when I come back from Asia,
>> I see deals accelerating massively. And US, you only have 3% of companies that have gone down the AI path. International is just starting and for the first time in 30 years, US is ahead of China when it comes to tech.
>> Dan, great to see you. Thank you.
>> Great to be here. Thank you.
>> Look, you either believe in that narrative or you don't. But I think Dan's narrative has been relatively consistent over the past past couple years. Now, in terms of this too big to fail narrative on OpenAI, I think he's right. We talked about in the morning that OpenAI is getting ready to uh unveil advertising as their next big uh mechanism. By the way, we got a report from the DK right here. Japan in attempt to continue stimulus flat crypto tax 20%. Previously, it was 55% at the highest level, which I think is the same in the United States. I mean, whatever whatever capital gain you have, it could be progressively taxed um up to your highest bracket. So, we don't have a flat capital gains tax on anything here, but Japan looking to apply that to crypto. That actually, I mean, one could say it's bearish because then people are going to sell because they don't they know they don't have to pay that many in taxes, but it could also incentivize a lot of people to, you know, get into the game and start buying more. So, it makes sense given the stimulus package that Japan is doing this. But yeah, in terms of OpenAI, advertising is going to be their next kind of big mechanism of growth and uh they're going to have to win when it comes to ads. They're going to have to really show that ads are a real mechanism for them to generate growth. Now, the enterprise business is the other big thing that a lot of people have been thinking about. Um, and the CFO said it's growing up like 9x year over year, but advertising, advertising is the next really big one. And if they can't effectively advertise, you know, people are going to have to pay for the product and most of the world is not going to dish out that much money. But if they do, then I mean, you've got a lot more momentum in the advertising ecosystem coming for OpenAI. And granted, it's hard to say Google's not going to win that game because Google's been doing ads for a long time, but it might be the next big thing that OpenAI needs to make some money. So, that's what we got. Any thoughts on America American E Eagles earnings? American Eagles earnings tomorrow. Um, he tripped me up with the the S on the Eagles. I was like, it's a football team. No. Um, I don't know, dude. I don't know why Urban Outfitters was up 30% last week. So, I mean, I would be bullish American Eagle, not only just because of Urban Outfitters, but also Sydney Sweeney. I mean that should be an earnings catalyst for them in terms of revenue growth but like Abberrombi, Best Buy, Kohl's, Burlington, every people are shopping so I guess Q3 should be good for them. I mean like I I know nothing about them other than people are starting to spend more money on clothes or at least that's what we've seen in Q3. And if that's the case then that's bullish. Someone says Robin Hood's releasing ISAs in the UK. Is that confirmed that they actually announced that? That would actually be pretty freaking bullish, dude. People in the UK have been waiting for these ISAs. It's basically like a like a like a like a retirement tax advantage account, right? It's like a Roth IRA. Wow. They're doing it. It's They're doing it. Let's go. All right, for all my Brits, you can now have your retirement on hoodie. Join the ISA weight list today. Open yours and have a chance to be one of five people to get 20,000. Wow. All right. So, they're giving away £100,000 to five people for the ISA. That's actually bigger news than the I mean the prediction market stuff was big news, but this thing is what people have been waiting. A lot of people have told me they they're not leaving their current platform in the UK because of no ISA. So that should be pretty bullish. I am not going to be streaming Powell tonight. Guys, I really don't think he's going to say anything that matters. Like I don't think he's allowed to say anything that matters nine days before the meeting. [laughter] I'm already 20,000 pounds after Thanksgiving. Dude, Thanksgiving was great. My diet starts today. Last week, we freaking ate some food, bro. We ate some food. But no, this is bullish. Yeah, I don't think Pal's gonna say anything, guys. I really I don't think it's worth streaming him. I mean, I'll cover whatever he says if he says anything important, but he's going to be making sure he doesn't say anything crazy. Yeah, I really doubt he's going to be talking about monetary policy. So, yeah, I I don't think it'll be anything too crazy. Now, if he happens to say anything, we'll see what the market says, but I don't think we'll get too much out of him. Again, if we don't get a rate cut, things are going to get ugly. But JPAL does not like being a Fed chair that surprises the market. The only time we had a surprise was earlier this year. No, it was September 2024, right? No, it was Was it September? When was the rate cut where everyone was wondering there was a legit chance it could be 50? And then my final prediction, I remember that day I said 25, but my gut said 50, but I said I wanted to be more. my guts at 50 because I felt like he was going to juice it up before the election. It was before the election, right? I think it was September, but then I went with 25 as like the more sane answer and he ended up doing 50. September 2024. Yes, he ended up doing 50. Dude, there's a clip of me going crazy when he said that. Uh, how do I find it? Um, I don't know how I'm going to search for this. Maybe maybe let me search my own profile. There's a video of me uh being super excited for it. That's when Robin had bounced from like 19 to 23. Like that was a fun fun time. Is this it? Is this it? Dude, what if uh Oh, I found it. I found it. I found it, baby. There we go. Okay, here it is. Here it is. This was a big day for all of us that needed our bags to pump at the end of 2024.
>> What's the answer? What's the answer? What's the answer? I'm looking at the same screen you guys are. Oh my god. Oh my god. Is it five? Is it five? If it's [ __ ] five and they did 50. If it's five, S&P's up 565. What is it? What is it? What is it? They're waiting. IS IT? IT'S 50. IT'S 50. They did 50. Oh my god. They did 50. Holy [ __ ] Robin Hood's 2316. SoFi's 836. Him 1655. Bitcoins at 60,000. They did 50. You know, I should have I knew I should have predicted 50, but I I [ __ ] I got scared and I said 25. What's the answer?
>> I was a younger emit, bro. Now I got the gray hairs. That was a young dude. Legit, I have gray hairs now. Like one year of freaking markets makes all the difference. We were excited for SoFi at 8, Robin at 23, Bitcoin at 65,000. Which is why which is why we got to be blessed. SoFi's at 30, Robin Hood's at 120, Bitcoin's at 85, and it got to 126. Like, we we got to still value how much has happened even if we're not at massive alltime highs. Derek, just seems like yesterday, dude, that day I because again, you guys, I was holding a lot of options on like I needed $25 that you talk about gambling. I needed my strike at $25. I really needed it to be above 25. and Robin had messed up their freaking Q3 earnings because of some stupid contra revenue. Stock fell to 19. I was like, "Oh my goodness, I'm gonna lose all my money. I'm gonna lose all my money." And then JPEL came in, gave us 50. And then Trump won. And then boom, we got we got our $25. That was a big one. That was a big one. So now I don't think it's as serious now. We just need a cut. We don't need 50. Honestly, we don't even need 25. We just need like just need like some cut. It's not going to be less than 25, but as long as he's not pausing, because that's just going to make the entire market feel that this Fed has no idea what's happening in the real economy where regular people are struggling heavily with interest rates. As long as the Fed gives some indication that they understand the labor market matters more than inflation, I think the market will be happy. So, we're going to need those cuts. We're going to need those cuts. All right, I think that's it for me, guys. I'll be uh back tomorrow. We'll have a daily recap in a little bit. Um the Andre and Horwit stuff. So, I will I will I'm got to sign a bunch of paperwork with them. So, um the official like email will be out soon. Um probably in a couple weeks. I got to sign a bunch of documents and like some legal stuff. So, it might take a few weeks to get that out there, but that will be out soon. Um, I am meeting with my new manager this Saturday. So, uh, I think we're gonna officially sign the contract this Saturday. So, I'll have details on the meetup probably by next week for New York City. Um, and in general, a lot of updates for 2026. Um, now that I have someone to like effectively manage a lot of stuff, I think we're going to be able to have more people on the show next year. So, I'm just going to put this out there right now, but I'll have more details next week. Uh, if you if you are a Jose, if you are an expert in your field and you want to, you know, build a public image and want to want to hop on the show, um, I'm looking for more contributors. So, we're going to set up a process where people can apply to just be a contributor on the show. And then once every week, once every couple weeks, when there's ever breaking news about an industry that you're an expert on, uh, would love to have more people on the show. And honestly, Jose was from the community. Jason Technical Tuesday from the community. Like I would love to have people from the community, you know, they don't need to be like CNBC people. I think we can make our own version of Dan Ies and Tom Lee just from the community. So, uh, updates on that will be coming out soon. I want to do a lot more podcasts next year and not just podcasts in person, but also podcasts like virtually um and just like more long form content even if it's through Zoom as like I've been meeting a lot of more interesting people and I would love to just like for 50 minutes get their take on one topic, you know, like the yen carry trade. I want to be able to see if if our community has an expert on bond yields and would like for 50 minutes legitimately be able to talk about the yen carry trade. So, we're trying to formalize a structure for people to like submit their ideas and then get them on to the channel and uh just have a lot more distribution of of what's going on on the show. So, those details will be out. For those that missed the A16Z update, the the quick TLDDR is um I'm going to be a scout for A16Z. So, a scout is essentially someone who can use their network to hopefully find opportunities to invest in. In this case, the opportunities are startups. And in this case, the investor that's giving me the funds to manage, it's going to be like a couple hundred thousand dollars that I'm managing for them is Andreen Horwitz. Andre Horwitz, one of the best Silicon Valley VC funds in history. Again, the way I got this opportunity, I kind of just hit them up and I was like, "Yo, that's actually how it happened. I had one of the partners. I saw he followed me on Twitter. I was like, yo, can we like can we do something together?" And um he was like, "Yeah, do you want to be a scout for us?" I was like, "Yeah, that'd be pretty cool." So that's the idea. Again, it's kind of like my uh Jason Calacanis trajectory. Maybe I can find the next Uber. Very rare. Probably not going to find it, but on the off chance that I do, uh that would obviously be very important. And you know, it would help me understand if there's a chance of me being decent at angel investing. So Scout, these these VC funds have these scout programs. Uh Sequoia has it, A16Z has it, Benchmark has it, but Sequoia and Benchmark aren't that public about it. A16Z, if you see their content, they're like really trying to develop a media brand. I think they're going to go public, dude. Like they manage $65 billion. At some point, that's going to get to hundred billion and they're going to probably go public and you're probably going to be able to buy shares of Andre and Horwood. So, I think they want to just expand the network to to people that they think could, you know, put a $10,000 check in the next Robin Hood because all they care about is making sure they can find it one day. If I'm any good at angel investing, I'll help them find it. And then you know that that's where the Scott relationship makes sense. So the idea here is I want to you know give the opportunity to the community right I went to an event for Andre and Horwitz two weeks ago in New York that was the event I was at and uh they gave a fireside chat on how to invest in startups and their number one piece of advice was like invest in your friends invest in people that like first of all they want the earliest stage. So they want someone who who barely has a product just has an idea because that's the cheapest valuation you're going to get. And you got to take a risk on someone who you know you believe in. So you know people out there have ideas can't guarantee that we can make an investment but at least give an opportunity to listen to a pitch I think is uh meaningful and then if there's anything I can do if it's a meaningful idea then you know we might be able to invest in it. So again not massive checks. They're going to be like 10 to 20,000. It's and you know Jason did this Jason Calcanis did this with with Robin Hood. Gave him a $20,000 check. Uber 25,000. Like at that stage, you you just you need a little bit of money, but realistically, you need ambition to build something big. Yeah. Bezos collected $20,000 check. Bezos collected uh 50 $20,000 checks. So, a million dollars in his seed round to start Amazon. How much I think he sold like 20% of the business for that million bucks. So, it was a $5 million valuation. And now Amazon's worth 2.3 trillion, which is crazy. But yeah, I mean like like with with with with startups, you're going to lose 99% of the money and and you know, they know that. So their idea is, hey, like spray and prey, right? Like see how many different startups you can find and take a chance on them. Most are going to fail, but on the off chance you actually find one. And and the only reason I reached out to them is because I've been starting to get a lot more pitches and I'm just realizing my network is expanding. And um you know if I had some institutional capital behind me to deploy then maybe that who knows maybe that could lead to finding the next Uber. It's going to be really freaking hard to do that. But if there if if if you do then that could be life-changing. So that is the idea. Benny says I'll DM you [clears throat] my idea when it's time. We'll be rich or broke in no time. So we'll have a public email. We'll have a public email that anyone from the community can message me and and uh can send an email with their idea if you I mean I I already talked to a couple of you guys through DMs on Twitter. You guys are building some really cool stuff and so you know whatever I can do to help I think it would be it would be pretty cool. Um no Spencer I will not invest in your Only Fans. I don't I don't think [laughter] like I mean to be honest I probably could because they basically said invest in anything if you think it has potent. Maybe it has potent but like I like I I also you know one one thing they also said is that um you don't have to ask us about your your investments. Like I was kind of shocked. They were like we don't really care what you invest in. like if you have any questions you can ask us, but we trust you enough to just invest in anything. I was like, damn, bro. They're just giving you a couple hundred thousand, you can just [ __ ] throw it at anything. I was that's kind of crazy. But obviously, you know, if you throw it at a hundred things and they all go to zero, you kind of suck at angel investing. So, their entire perspective is like, hey, like figure it out. Like Andre Horowitz does not care if they lose $500,000, but they really care about missing out on the thing that becomes $500 billion. And if I can help them find that thing, then obviously that's amazing. But if I can't, then you know, then I can't. But but they have enough trust that people are gonna try. I was speaking to some of the other uh scouts that there was like 30 of us there and some of them have been doing this for years and I was like so like have you found any good companies? And they were like no. [laughter] They were like it's really hard to find good startups. So we're going to see. But whatever opportunities we can democratize here, that is what uh that is what matters. Yeah, they basically are I don't even think they I don't even think they think I'm a good dart thrower. They're just taking a chance because honestly, I'm probably going to suck at angel investing. Like if you ask me, hey, you could start a hedge fund or a VC fund, I would say hedge fund any day of the week because at least in a hedge fund, you can manage public equities. And like I know a little bit more about the stock market than the startup world. startup world is like legit talking about gambling like legit a gamble and at least in the public markets you can you know look at something with data but who knows maybe there's a chance so yeah that's the update on that meetup uh details coming soon we're going to have a lot more infrastructure for uh details for people to be on the channel and yeah I think uh I think getting this new ecosystem set up with the new manager I think is going to really good and it's going to streamline a lot of operations like just like just organizational u structures to just like managing everything that's happening on a day-to-day basis I think will be streamlined with someone who can help me. So that's the goal and should be happening hopefully in the next couple weeks. Don't tell us the new manager is your dentist. It is not my dentist, but uh I would not be opposed [laughter] if my dentist offered. I would be getting to spend a lot of time with my dentist at that point. That'd be amazing. But um yeah, that that is what we're going to be having. And yes, we will have a contact for the VC stuff. It'll just it it'll take I got to sign a bunch of documents, dude. I got to get through a lot of stuff first and then I can officially like put it out there. That's it. I think that's what we got. Does that mean more travel for you? I I think uh if we obviously do the meetups then like Yeah, that would mean more travel. But outside of the meetups, I mean, I think the only traveling next year is going to be to like like if Pounder and Hood have events or something. And um if we more meaningfully can start lining up these interviews, which are in the works with some people, but we're trying to get like some big names. Obviously, I would travel to them if that was required, but like I'm kind of setting up my own studio here. So, if they're in the city, it would be nice to like do it in uh in my studio. But yeah, like the traveling would be primarily for interviews. But outside of that, other interviews or meetups, there's no other reason really to be traveling that much and I don't want to be traveling that much either. So, hopefully hopefully not. Was that your doorbell? No, it's just the sirens outside, bro. Like, I didn't think we would have I'm just like, you know, when you hear sirens in Steve's background, I'm like, "Oh, it's New York." But when you hear sirens in my background, it's like, goodness, dude. It's not supposed to be as bad as New York City. But it somehow happens during the show. Mid, I'm your dentist. And now it's going to be awkward watching the stream. If my dentist ever actually like, she took my YouTube channel. She actually ever watched the stream and she happened to join when there were all these stupid dentist jokes. It would have been really awkward, but [laughter] so far I haven't heard any [ __ ] about it. So hopefully hopefully we're okay. [laughter] Amit new man will be like, "You need a clean chat. I can't promote you with these dens in the chat." Dude, she's seen you guys already. She knows all about you guys cuz she's like gone through my YouTube channel. She's analyzed it. She's uh she's gone through a lot of my videos in the past. like she really did a deep dive on like who I am as a brand. That's why I was really impressed by her because a she just works really hard. B it's like she like actually put in the work to understand like what I've built over the past couple years. So uh yeah, I think she knows some of the degeneracy in the chat. And there you go. That's what we got. All right. So I think that's it for the day. Um, daily recap in a little bit. Um, market open tomorrow as usual and I think that's it. Do we have anything else? We have earnings this week and then Oh, yeah. I'm not streaming the Fed thing. I I just I I don't think the Fed thing is going to be that important. I'll cover it as soon as it happens and we'll see if we get any quotes on X. Um, so you can follow me on X if you haven't. But yeah, outside of that, I don't know. I don't know if there's anything else. Has [laughter] your manager seen your grinder? Dude, she like this is what I mean by she knows you guys, bro. She like literally made a joke the other day in our group chat about me being gay. And I'm just like, okay. Like I guess like I guess everyone's in on the joke. Like it is what it is. It is what it is. There's nothing I can do about this. Whoa. Did China actually just tweet this [ __ ] No, China didn't tweet this. Uh, what joke? You guys are funny. The Chinese embassy in the US just put this. See, this is why this is why Donnie T gave a call to freaking the Japanese lady who is new the new prime minister and told her respectfully to shut the hell up about this Taiwan stuff because this is what you've got the Chinese embassy tweeting. Dude, that is wild. Look at this. Taiwan is a part of China's territory. Therefore, there's no basis for a president of Taiwan. Who the f is on the Washington Post? An opinion columnist on the Washington Post wrote this [ __ ] Wow. Oh, no. No. Someone responded to the Washington Post and the Chinese embassy is quoting that. Okay. So, someone wrote an op-ed on Taiwan. Um, and that person is responding to it. No, no, no, no. I'm saying it wrong. I'm sorry. So, this guy, Leu Pangu, I'm butchering his name, but I'm sorry. Leu Pangu is the spokesperson of the Chinese embassy in the United States, and he wrote an op-ed for the Washington Post. It's an opinion column and the the the the the the title is there is no president of Taiwan. See, this is why we cannot be we cannot be stirring up the pot when it comes to Taiwan and China. These guys attack Taiwan, we can kiss the stock market goodbye. Maybe pounder actually is the only thing that holds up. But [gasps] we're done. We're done. I think that's why Donnie T told Japan to chill out with that [ __ ] because that would not be the best thing in the world. Yeah, I definitely said his name wrong. It It sounds like Leu Penu. That's what it looks like. Leu Penu. Definitely saying it wrong, but [laughter] someone said Lil Penguin. No, it's not Lil Penguin. I don't think it is, but let me ask Google, how do you say this [ __ ] Let's ask Gemini how to pronounce. Okay, this is a a different website. Let's see if they have anything. Unlock pronunciation by watching a short ad. How long is this ad? 15 seconds. Okay, we're gonna have to wait 15 seconds to see what this sounds like. See, Gemini should do this already. Gemini should be a I know it's not a common thing to pronounce, but Gemini should be able to just have something that immediately lets you pronounce it. All right, here it is.
>> Lou Pongu.
>> Okay, I got I got that a little wrong. Got [laughter] that got that a little wrong. I said Liu Pangu. This is
>> Lu Pong Yu.
>> Okay. Lu Pongu. There you go. Chat would catch it. Hold on. Let me see. No, but she doesn't give me the Oh, wait. No, hold on. Give me the audio breakdown. Will it actually talk to me with this? No, she doesn't. She doesn't actually say it, guys. She breaks it down phonetically. I said, "Give me the Can you say it? Can you Can you say it? I can write it out phonetically, but I can't produce actual audio." Yeah. See, they need to be able to do that. Like, that's a no-brainer for these models. So, there you go. Anyway, the China Taiwan thing. Yeah, we can't be stirring the pot too much about it. All right, so that's it. Uh, bullish Duelingo. Yeah, there you go. Bullish, bullish dualingo. Uh, I'll be back tomorrow. Thank everybody for being here. Hopefully everyone had a great weekend. Dude, I did not think about the markets for the past four days. Honestly, I really like I didn't tweet. I didn't think about stocks. I I joined Steve's stream for like five minutes just to hear what he was saying and I gifted some memberships and I left. Like I I literally tried to just not keep up with the markets and I I think it's I I think it was like healthier than not. No, seriously, I really didn't like the the only time I cared about the markets was last night when Bitcoin dumped and me and my cousin at 8 p.m. saw both of our Robinets just like crash. We're like, "Oh, it is what it is." And she was like, "Why is this happening?" I was like, I think there's some [ __ ] in Japan happening. She's like, what [ __ ] in Japan keeps happening? I keep hearing this [ __ ] about Japan. Tried to explain the yen carry trade. She's like, dude, that sounds like [ __ ] Just like tell people to stop selling. She's like, do you think do you think your market open can make the market go up today? I was like, I don't think I control the market with my market open. Like I like I don't like if the market's going to go up, it's not because of me.
>> So, but no, I I enjoyed time with family. I think it was important. And uh yeah, I enjoyed honestly just not really thinking about the market too much. I think I think I really have not taken a break over the past couple years. And I think really I think this was the first 4 day streaming break. Last time I didn't stream for like four days in a row. Honestly, I don't remember that. But like if it was a few days in a row, it's because I was traveling. So it wasn't really a break. So it's like your mind is still occupied, right? Because you're like but like to like legit just lay down on the couch. I don't sit on the couch in my living room ever. I I lay down on the couch with my cousin and my sister for the first time in months. I don't sit on the couch because I don't like sit back and watch TV or if I do, it's like very rare for like maybe five 10 minutes. So, it was nice to kind of just chill out a little bit and I hope everyone else got to do that as well. Yes, you had steak. For those that didn't see it in the morning, you guys can't say that I don't know steak anymore. This is what I consumed, bro. This is what I consumed. Your boy can eat some steak. Your boy can eat some rare steak. We watched We watched Harry Potter, the Chamber of Secrets. Uh, what else did we watch? We watched a bunch of How I Met Your Mother episodes. Underrated show. Truly underrated show. What else did we watch? Oh, we No, dude. My sister made us watch this stupid freaking show. All her fault. It's about this kid that gets abducted and it's like really dramatic and like we couldn't even get through it, dude. I was like, "Why are we watching this shit?" Oh, we watched Wolf of Wall Street again. The whole thing, three hours. I I I told Steve over the weekend after watching it for the 10th time. amazing movie. Problem is, it's too long. And I legit like I honestly wasn't on my phone the whole time. Like I was like actually watching it again. There were some scenes that you just didn't need. Like that was a three-hour movie. It could have been two hours and 30. Like it did not need an extra 30 minutes. So as much as I love the movie, it really at some point I was just like, "Dude, this is like getting kind of stupid. Like these scenes are not necessary." Yeah. The drug scenes were too long. It's like they just they had way too much [ __ ] there. And then what else did we watch? Um, I think that's it. We tried watching Kevin Hart's new standup special. It's not funny, dude. I'm sorry. He's not funny anymore. It's just not funny. I've been having this take for a while. I've been thinking Kevin Hart has been getting worse as a comedian over the past couple of years, and I love Kevin Hart. His early stuff was amazing. The problem is, um, he's too PC now. He's making too much money off like partnering with JP Morgan Chase. So, he's not going to say any runchy [ __ ] And in in the type of comedy that I like, you need to actually take a risk with your words for it to be. You need like, you know, Dave Chappelle, Andrew Schultz, like you need to really say some [ __ ] that elicits emotion. And that's what I I think it tends to be the funniest. So, I I don't think he he does that anymore. I did not watch There Will Be Blood. Honestly, I forgot about that movie. Steve did [ __ ] on it, though. Steve said it sucks. So, just saying. Uh, Siege, thank you for the super chat. I I need to watch Alisium. Still haven't watched that yet. I know you keep telling me about that one, but I need to watch I did not watch uh Rocky either. I told my cousin we should, but we just never ended up doing it. But now I know who Rocky Bubbo is, so you know, that's important. Dude, Palibrius, I think I started for like five minutes, but it was two weeks ago. I was really tired and then I got bored and I fell asleep, so maybe I got to start it again. You know, someone I forgot who told me this over the weekend. Uh, it was someone who came over for Thanksgiving, like a family friend. They were like, "Tet Call Saul is a mustwatch if you like Breaking Bad." And I just can't get around it, dude. Like, I can't get around actually getting into that show. But maybe maybe that's something I need to do. Yeah, Patrice O'Neal like you top 10 comedian all I think you got to put him in there top 10 all time and it's like I honestly I struggled to put Kevin Hart in my top 10. I just think progressively for the past years like I know I'm not a big movie guy but I'm not even a big comedy guy but I did have a comedy phase back in 2019 to 2021. Maybe your boy had some dreams of being a comedian. don't got to talk about that. But none now I I I I mean I do consider myself a comedian and I think I make people laugh every day. But nonetheless, um I did like research the history of comedy decently well and every time I came up with something since 2015 on Kevin Hart, it was just trash. Like it's just not relatable content. It's definitely not funny content. So yeah, I I I don't know if he's he's up there for me. Palibrius pacing is too slow for 2025. [laughter] I've never once laughed from you. Well, you guys make me laugh every day by roasting me. So there's the uh I guess reversal effect of you guys being comedians. The Akos Singh controversy. I'm not going to talk about it, but yeah, I've uh I've seen what has happened. Let me just say I'm not on the side of his wife. I'll just say that. I'll just You guys can research the controversy if you want. Uh I'm not on the side of his wife. I think uh I don't know. I think that that's going to complicate his career now. He has to he has to be very creative with how he addresses this because it's bad. From my perspective, it's very bad. And maybe it'll blow over, but I think it's I think it's a bad situation. I don't know how he addresses it, but hopefully he's creative enough to to figure out a way to address it. Oh, I made my sister watch uh or not my sister, my cousin watched the first episode of Prison Break. Dude, she made me watch. So, she liked it. She then she Okay, I might piss people off by saying this, but apparently there's this show called uh Mr. Robot. Has anyone heard of this [ __ ] Put in the chat if you've heard of this before I give my take. Like, has anyone heard of this [ __ ] She made me watch the first episode of this and I was like, this [ __ ] is ass. I'm sorry. The people are saying it's better than Breaking Bad. What are you smoking, bro? What are you smoking? Better than Breaking Bad. I'm sorry. I didn't like I tried. I really tried. I put my phone away. I tried to pay. No, I didn't like it, dude. The narration itself is just like, what is this, bro? like and it's kind of like AI techreated, so I thought I'd be interested. No, I didn't like it. Yeah, [sighs] that's that's what we uh that the hacking technique is all real. Yeah, that's fair. Like a lot of the tech stuff is real. I just like I thought the storyline was not as I don't know. I didn't like it. Like she said it was better than Breaking Bad or she said a lot of people told her. So I'm going in expecting all right if it's better than Breaking Bad. Nothing has lived up to Breaking Bad in my entire life. I am wishing to find a show that can give me the feeling that break dude Breaking Bad I mean because I missed it from 2008 to 2013. So I got to binge four seasons. The level of joy in my life when I was 14, 15 years old getting to binge Breaking Bad in the summer of 2013. I mean it was pure bliss. And then I got to see season five when I became a sophomore in 2014. I've been waiting for that feeling ever since. And don't tell me it's Game of Thrones. Not watching this medieval [ __ ] bro. Not watching that [ __ ] I need a real show. I need a real show. It's good, but it's not Breaking Bad good. Yeah. I just I didn't Also, don't get me started on Severance. That pile of trash, dude. I cannot believe people hyped up Severance. My cousin and my sister loved that show. I was just like, because they they came over for spring break in April and they binged the whole thing. I fell asleep. I was like, like, what is this nonsense, dude? Like, what are people watching? Is this what we call television nowadays? Like, what are we watching? Where is the Dawson's Creeks of the world? When can we bring that back? Yeah, Westworld was great for the first two seasons and then then they ruined it after season three or season two. Just watch Friends, dude. Maybe I just need to watch Friends.
>> Maybe that's it. All right, that's it. Thanks everybody. Appreciate it. Uh I think I missed everyone so much. That's why I stayed longer today. Thank you all for being here. Daily recap in a couple hours and tomorrow we'll be live again. Uh I don't think JPA's gonna say anything too important today. If he does, I'll tweet about it. So we'll see in about an hour 30 what he says and uh then we'll keep going tomorrow on the market open. All right, thanks everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys tomorrow morning. Bye everybody. Have a good one.