that that I should I'm really good at sort of summarizing themes and so I prepared six themes that I wanted to set your pallet with I guess for the rest of this conference. The first thing I wanted to talk about is how AI is increasingly not just models. Um here's two sideby-side shots of open AI saying into um a model is increasingly the harness right AI21 is pivoting to is as well and also uh AI is also about services and data and brand and product right so I think this all these trends are really good for AI engineers because it is everything outside the model but the second trend also shows that the models are and I think the realist world benchmark is probably the amount of code that's written by AI. Uh this is a screenshot of cloud code commits in GitHub over time. Uh as of February, it was about 4 to 5% of all code. Right now, it's probably sitting at around 10% and towards the end of the year, it's going to be around 40 to 50%. Everyone is sufficiently appreciating that is currently changing the entire world. Cloud code agents are I mean agents are also just self-hosting and enabling slot forks which are really interesting. And also of course obviously there's the Oplaw moment which I don't need to tell you guys about you've heard enough about it already but I'm also very which starts to mark the emergence of agents in non-verifiable domains and I think lastly the high potential is exceeding normal knowledge work knowledge work towards the frontier uh science and technology and math software development life cycle first starting with the idees last year the um ste this is called the jevans paradox as well And really this is my argument around why AI engineering will be the last job, why you guys all have job security and why you guys will take over the world. So I hope over the next two days you have really fruitful discussions and I'm looking forward to catch up online. See you.
>> All right. And now and now Sean really owes me one. So we'll be getting here before too long. Don't you worry. All right. So to kick off the talks proper, we have George Cameron. So George is an Aussie who now is in San Francisco. There seems to be a bit of a a patent there and started something kind of to solve their own problems a couple of years ago. There's a great interview with Shan Wang on Leighton Space with uh the founders there at artificial analysis which is the firm that he founded. So if you want to hear the backstory and everything they do, I highly recommend that. Um but what they do is essentially they burn lots of tokens to uh objectively verify across all kinds of benches and benchmarks their own and uh and open ones that um uh uh you know what how the models rank, how they compare. So this is very valuable as part of the conversations we're going to have this morning where we're going to look about tokconomics and and how uh kind of the cost of using inference is starting to build into our product strategies. But to set the scene with all the insights that he has into the modern uh model landscape, would you please welcome George Cameron from artificial analysis. All righty. Are we uh there we go. Great. Thanks for having me here. Um so I'm George, one of the co-founders of Artificial Analysis. Very quickly about us. We're an independent AI benchmarking company. We help millions of users with our website artificial analysis.ai understand what's happening in AI and choose between all the different technologies with our independent uh benchmarks. Um and we're also quite widely referred to in the industry. At the start of this week, Jensen referred to us for the Neotron 3 Ultra release. Last week, Anthropic with Opus 4.8 and our GDP vala benchmark the week prior to that. Sunda with a GPT, sorry, Gemini uh 3.5 flash release. Um and so very happy to be here and share a bit about um what we do and give an overview of how we see the state of AI in June 2026. We benchmark across the AI stacks. We benchmark agents, models, uh in inference providers and and hardware. Uh and we also benchmark um kind of text focused language models but also image, video, speech, uh and music models as well. I think to start off with um I'll provide essentially this chart. It's a bit hectic. Um, which shows the leading releases from the leading AI labs over the last few years. And it's a bit hectic, but I think that's probably no surprise to us in this room because it's been a hectic few years. There's been a lot of releases uh and a lot of progress. And I think why I like to start with this chat is it shows that AI progress has not slowed down. I think claims of that have been greatly uh greatly exaggerated. I heard a lot of that in late 25, but then um Opus 4.6 came out. Um agents started working for much longer horizons and uh people quieted down a bit. And I think this chart shows that really well is that there's more dots on this chart than ever. Um if you look at the last 3 months here, which shows there's been more leading releases um and it's going up and to the right pretty quickly, which is showing progress in intelligence. I'll first introduce our artificial analysis intelligence index metric. Now this is a synthesis metric of 10 benchmarks that we run to test language model intelligence which provides an highle synthesis overview uh and relative comparison of the intelligence of these models. We have the current set of leading models on this chart here. And I think to note, Claude Opus 4.8 last week took the mantle from GBT 5.5 um as the leading language model in terms of intelligence. But I think rather than kind of stopping there, if if we're able to stop there, it'd make our jobs a lot easier. But I think there's a the story is is that there's a reason still uh to use other models considering the cost, the speed, and other trade-offs at play amongst language models today. I'll first take a look at different perspectives on thinking around the current state of models. You can see here that it's very much a US and China story when looking at where the labs making these leading language models are based. Also present on this chart is France with Mistral, South Korea with a number of labs in a very successful sovereign AI initiative. Um and then also the United Arab Emirates. Um I think to us in this room notedly missing is Australia. Australia doesn't have kind of language models that are competitive with the frontier in terms of intelligence. Um and from my perspective, I I don't think that's going to happen uh h happen soon either. Another perspective is looking at open weights or colloally open source models um compared to that of proprietary models and proprietary intelligence achieved. On the y-axis we have our intelligence index uh and then on the x-axis release state and what these lines plot is the leading model that is kind of proprietary compared to open weights and open weights has always trailed proprietary intelligence. This chart is really going back to um kind of mid mid 23 with the Llama 270B release and you can see that yes open weights has trailed open uh sorry proprietary intelligence but it's in a sense kind of kept up roughly 3 to n months behind that of proprietary intelligence. This was not a given. It was an open question uh years ago um or only a few years ago people asking around the commercial models um that could support open weights um but I think what we've seen is kept up for a number of reasons and I think our perspective is this is going to continue with there being sufficient incentive there um particularly for labs wanting to serve those looking for open weights models for their flexibility the ability to fine-tune uh and other reasons and And then secondly, I think another perspective on this is if open weights is kind of 3 to 9 months behind, we're looking at opus maybe 4.5 territory GBT 5.2 for the intelligence that um you can essentially get with open weights models with a Kimk 2 point Kim K 2.6 or the the latest kind of Deep Seek uh V4 Pro. Um and so it remains an option. Um you could do a lot with with with Opus 4.5 or GBD 5.2 And so it remains an option. Um and it looks like that's going to continue based on based on the last few years and our house perspective. We benchmark using quantitative benchmarks but we try and essentially ensure that those benchmarks are aligned from real world use. you don't have um models hill climbing on on on a number that doesn't uh relate to increasing in essentially the usability of these models uh and and the use cases we're exploring with AI now and so we like to sense check um essentially the progress and I think what we tell here with our GDP vala agentic benchmark that uses an open AI data set we turned it into an aentic benchmark is a perspective of okay a leading model a year ago with claude 4 cloud 4 set sorry and then now with GBD 5 GBD 5.5 and you can see progress is being made in terms of real world knowledge work output on the left we have a table useful on the right we have essentially additional synthesis um executive summary uh provided kind of very useful totals um and kind of further analysis than we had a year ago. So agents have progressed on economically valuable tasks and we also like to to look at kind of maybe less knowledgework uh economically valuable tasks as well. Progress has been made uh there as well. Uh and so this is a kind of music video mood board um task within GDP vala and you can see that this is comparing to kind of uh some some open weight models. But on the left we have what Gemma um E4B. I mean it's amazing that it even did this but I think as a music video mood board maybe I'm not creative enough but I don't think I could use you use the one on my right here. Um but if we compare that with a GBD 5.5 maybe I could kind of do something with this. Uh and so I think it shows that there are still real differences uh between the between the models and the kind of benchmarks do correlate to uh real world capabilities. I think one kind of two things that are hard to reconcile in AI today is one that we have cheaper intelligence. So it's cheaper than ever to access GPT4 level of intelligence. Kind of going back to what I was saying earlier, you can get kind of Kim K 2.6 now cheaper than you can get Opus 4.5 uh you know six months ago. And so I think this speaks to you can get intelligence cheaper than ever, but we're also spending more than ever uh within our companies. We're kind of upgraded to the $200 a month uh claude code or codeex plans and kind of why is that is and I kind of break it down into six drivers here that we see is the most critical or kind of breeze through them. Each of these could be a talk but like smaller models able to achieve more intelligence is a first. Lowering cost increased sparity of the models. Lower proportion of active parameters to total kind of when inference compute is at scale. The kind of number of active parameters is really the driver of cost. How you amotize hardware. Uh next is kind of software efficiency gains to call out here in the inference stack in kind of VLM or SG lang um optimizations are happening every day that of flash attention also kind of closer to the model exploring different quantizations we're no longer at BF16 now we're at kind of kind of four bit precisions whether that's in for with kind of moonshot models or whether that's like NVFP4 uh with other models um we're making kind of better efficiency trade-offs essentially to offer cheaper intelligence um and increase efficiency. Third is hardware efficiency. Hardware is kind of costing more but is also offering more. And so a NVL72 node is able to offer a lower cost when serving at scale than your H100 node even though it costs more. And so that higher efficiency can translate to lower costs offered on what's raising costs larger models. And how do you reconcile this with the first? It's that everybody wants or not like not every use case, but there's an insatiable demand for frontier intelligence. We see that continuing. I think for yourself, I'd love to be more intelligent. I'd love the people I work with to be more intelligent. And so I think that translates to models. And so there's an insatial demand for kind of larger models increases cost. Next, reasoning models. Labs are increasing intelligence through more reasoning tokens. Everybody knows we pay per token and so higher cost. Lastly, agents. So, it used to be you um you know in in chat GPT you would uh ask a question or send a request to the API and you get the response back. Maybe make that maybe that's put that into a word through code. Now you're having agents doing exploration of other files of uh checking its own work and it's improving the output but we're dealing with multiple turns for the same task. And so in our benchmarks we're commonly seeing 60 turns uh for a GDP valet task. Um and so kind of 20 to 100 turns is quite sensible for many knowledge work tasks and it acts as a multiplier on the cost. This is a chart showing kind of model language model inference price uh redu falling. So here we've bucketed models in their intelligence. So in our intelligence index 0 to 10 10 to 20 etc. And we've looked at okay when was that model when was that intelligence achieved which is the first dot of each line and then where are we now in terms of the the latest release uh or the cheapest release that is able to access that intelligence. And what we see here is really in kind of six to uh 18 month periods you have the cost of that intelligence falling often 10 to 100 times. And this is something that we can all think about and take advantage of. If a task was able to you could do it with Opus 4.5. Odds are now that you can there's orders of magnitude at play. It's not 2x cheaper. It's you can go 10x cheaper in many cases by choosing a cheaper model that has more recently been uh been been released. And so I think both insatiable demand but for like kind of increased intelligence but especially for like real world more defined use cases uh often there's 10 to 100 times uh cheaper options uh at at play in terms of model selection and this is that played out again. So here we have a chart of intelligence and then the cost to us of running benchmarks. And so here's the on the x-axis we have the cost to run our intelligence index those 10 benchmarks and um I don't know if we would be able to afford it back in when we kind of started at kind of in 23 24 but now it's costing above 4,000 US to run these 10 benchmarks for frontier models that are pushing what AI intelligence is able to achieve. And so you can see opus 4.8 costs over $4,000. Um but there's a clear kind of paro curve that one should think about when selecting models for use cases. Thinking about the cost uh sensitivity um and there's options at play um amongst the prito curve that really does span uh 100x plus in terms of cost differences. again could talk about in a lot more detail but this is a chart just showing what's underpinning a lot of the efficiency gains and that's hardware improvements so you can see that the kind of B200 node is able to offer greater output speed per query but also greater system throughput it can scale to more users greater concurrency and so this allows amortizing the cost of that hardware over more users which is supporting lowering of intelligence costs and inference costs. I think agents are a big a big category and it requires different ways to think about each of the agent uh categories. We track seven fast growing agent categories that we see as having achieved product market fit in a sense um and a fast scaling. So that's coding agents, general work agents, not just chat but your co your local codeex, your claude co-work uh that have really reached a level of maturity. A lot more to go but a level of maturity for real world use. Next chat bots, presentation agents, OCR, data analysis and customer support as seven agent categories that have really reached a level of maturity um and product market fit and are continuing to grow very quickly. double clicking into that which is probably most interesting to our AI engineering audience here and that is coding agents. So coding agents they're not the model they're the model and the harness both the drivers of performance because when we're using coding agents we're not just using opus 4.7 where you or opus 48 we're using opus 4.8 in claude code in cursor CLI.
>> So Sarah is now head of AI at notion. We've lost her now for some reason. Um can we get Sarah back? There she is. Uh so she's the head of AI at Notion, but she's formerly been at Robin Hood and Google and she she's the engineering lead on AI modeling uh reasoning, agentic orchestration and model infrastructure. Uh in addition, so she was recently interviewed by Shan Wang on latent space. I I highly recommend just go to latent space you keep up with everything. Uh and she talk so if you want to hear more back her personal backstory and what they're doing at notion but she's going to talk there's a bit of a theme emerging as I mentioned around tokens the cost of tokens how that feeds back a kind of back pressure of itself of its own back into our product strategy. So to hear about what they're doing there uh at notion would you please welcome Sarah Saxs. Hi. Hello. We're good. Yeah. Okay. Thank you for having me. If I was in the same cinema, I would be giving artificial intelligence a gigantic high five. Um, so I'll just assume that you see me and you're doing it. Um, the reason is because I completely agree with everything that was just presented. And I think what I want to talk about is the challenge of actually serving that and making those decisions. Um, raise your hand if you work for a Fortune50 company. Okay, good for you. Three of you, four of you. Raise your hand if you don't. And raise your hand if you're serving AI products to your customers. Okay, what about us, right? What does it mean to work at when you don't have the scale and the negotiating power, but you want to be delivering what's best to your customers? Um, but first, like any engineering manager, it's never right to take credit for everything that you're doing. This is just a sample of the team um that actually built everything I'm about to talk about. So, I always like to really include kind of just a sample of everything we're building. So, I want to walk through some real scenarios. And again, I we didn't share notes, so these will feel very familiar with what you just saw. And these are real. I won't name names, but you can um quickly Google. So, exhibit A, a reasoning model gets upgraded, but don't worry, it's the same price. Okay? Um it might be the same price per token, but you run it on the same exact task. And what happens? It's three times as many output tokens. Okay. Um maybe that makes it better. It reasons more. Um but what do you do, right? Um let's look at exhibit B. There's a successor model. So increment your random decibel by 0.1. Okay. It's 40% more expensive than its predecessor. But breaking news, the predecessor is being deprecated in four months. And you've built your whole product on top of it. Are you increasing your prices by 40%. No, hopefully not. So, what do you do? Well, if you're one of the four people that raised your hand, it's fine. Your CEO gets to go on Bloomberg and complain about it and you probably get a great deal. But what about everyone else, right? The Fortune 500, they have these dedicated AI teams. They get to kind of negotiate and they negotiate alone and they negotiate with incredible leverage. And I I have a hypothesis that that's leaving behind a lot of the market and it's not an efficient market. Um you're basically left today, I see this all the time with our customers and I see this with my partners in the industry. You're left behind with no leverage. My job at Notion is to represent that Fortune 5 million because they're our customers. Especially with usage based pricing, the accessibility of AI is determined by the price by the price of those workflows. um you know, we're handling um tens and tens of trillion tokens a month. Um but we also have over a hundred million customers. What does that mean? It means that I get to play that job of negotiating at scale, but bringing it to the rest of you. And there's a couple lessons I learned that I don't think you need those trillions of tokens a month to use. And I want to share that with all of you because I actually think in this economy there's a lot to be gained and I think the market's not fair to us. So, we see this, right? Um, for $200 a month, you can consume $5,000 in compute. How is that possible? Because Anthropic has the cost of goods served for themselves. And by the way, we're very close partners with them. And I think for very frontier reasoning tasks, this is appropriate. Okay? For really hard tasks, I want to pay more because we're not there yet. But for a lot of situations, that's that's not where we are. So the supplier is your competitor, right? How many of you see in the next 10 years that you could be competing with OpenAR anthropic on some product that you're building? Okay, I feel like not enough of you are raising your hands, which is interesting. Um, but this is the way that it's working right now. And I see this happening in two variations. One, I see that people are locked in. They have no exit. When you see very large applied AI companies with extremely extremely vocal partnerships with Frontier Labs, there's a very high chance that they're locked into that one vendor that they've taken all of their spend and they've committed it to that one Frontier Lab in exchange for exorbitant discounts, but they're stuck. Okay. Um that means that tomorrow um if open weight or another frontier model comes out they don't have the optionality to leave because they've committed $20 million to one of that uses the best model available whatever it is. So for instance at notion um we just launched this. This is our manage agents product. We believe that there's value in optionality. You'll see in this example, you can use decagon agents, move them so Claude code can write a fix and then perhaps have Codex review it and then put it in a task list for humans to review, right? We can charge you sticker price if not a small discount on these models, but the benefit that you're getting is the experience around it. And it's not just capability. We see this all the time now. I think kind of I wrote a Twitter article that a lot of people identified with a couple months ago now. I think the pot's boiling on capability alone. You should always be thinking about cost per capability per second. Artificial analysis is a wonderful resource to do that if you don't have your own resources. And like it's it's happening, right? We see these crazy stories. This is just in the past week headlines that have come out where if you only focus on capability and you don't think about latency or cost, you've put yourself in a rough position. It's pretty funny, honestly. Um I think I love these tweets. If you're on AI Twitter, which half of you are, it's it's a funny time to be alive. Um but it's real, right? Uh but you don't want this to be your customers, okay? And it's not appropriate to put your customers in this position of whatever this guy's doing with his cigar. Not all traffic is equal. We heard a little bit in that graph where we saw, you know, where different models are living. In notion, it looks like this. Changing a database field, triaging an email, you know, looking like this dude. Okay, let's get him on Miniax as soon as possible. Summarizing meeting notes. These are all things that we actually don't want to pay 40% more when GPT6 comes out or whatever is next. We want to either be using open weight or we want to be rling. But for the frontier task, we need to be giving that frontier to our customers. Data analysis, deep research. The point is that our customers need us to choose for them. Otherwise, this will be their headlines. Okay? And your product is inaccessible. The problem again is that this isn't how our providers are working right now. They're incentivized basically with two paths. Again, I won't name names. um use your critical reasoning or your favorite model to figure it out. Either you are the best reasoning model, you are the example in all of these tweets, right? You are the example of great and no one really questions your price because you're the first one that passed whatever benchmark you said you passed. The second is you're slightly worse, but that's okay. You just need to be about 30 seconds per million tokens cheaper and you have the rest of the market to you. What What about everyone else? Right? We're in a duopoly right now where things aren't priced for their needs. Complex tasks though I think are appropriate. I want to keep highlighting this. We see a bifurcation at least notion usage and I want you all to be investigating and thinking about there is a place for complex expensive reasoning models. The trap is putting everything there and the best frontier model is changing fast. This is an older slide you saw brand new from artificial analysis. Okay. But the point is that it's changing constantly. We're changing our default model for our customers probably every three to four weeks. Um, and it's a lot of work and we have very advanced eval teams to do it. But you shouldn't need that. I mean, there are a lot of benchmarks you can be using. If you're switching all the time, you can't be locking your product into a particular provider because if you are, the second you go from January to February, you're giving your users a worse experience. Okay? It's not worth the discount. I don't think so. I think you're putting a big risk on your company and you're and you're willing to fall behind and depending on the business for that kind of saturated knowledge work land that's fine but if you want to be offering frontier you shouldn't be doing this optionality is leverage. Um you should be ready to walk at all times for a durable business. You should not be locking yourself into a single provider and you should be comfortable knowing what the landscape of models are so that you're ready to maintain your margins and maintain your business in a way that you're confident brings your users the best experience. We do this with our auto model. So today we have a model at notion that's called auto. This is our model picker. It's due for a refresh. The number of models is getting long. But we let users choose because sometimes that latency, quality, cost trade-off is not something you can assume for your customers. You'd be surprised how many people really want to spend a ton of money on email triage and how many people really don't care about how accurate the research tasks are. I mean, it's a phenomenal user research exercise that we could have a whole other conversation on. Um, and so this is how we do it. Um, we choose for our customers the majority of the time, but 75% of the time they they stick there, but that 25% is valid and we give them opportunities to leave. With that auto model, we have the opportunity to actually think about the task at hand and give them the most quality that they need at the best price and latency. Okay. So, if you're setting up an email triage agent, it's very unlikely that auto will be opus because you're going to get your first usage based pricing bill and say, "No way, notion, I'm out of here." Okay, this is the playbook. Okay, all of you that love the taking your phone out with slides, this is the time this will be online, but I I get it. Okay. Um, build for multimodel. Be ready to switch. Understand what the model providers are. Evaluate on value, not tokens. What does that mean? This is an example. We tweeted this a couple months ago on web search providers. It might be that a certain web search provider is cheaper per token or per request. How many requests is your agent doing? How accurate are the results? You should be looking at the entire task when evaluating. You should not be thinking about a particular API call. That's where they get you. Okay? Think about your use case. You are the expert on quality for your use case. Switch fast, switch often. Give them something back. Do you know why these evolve were awesome? I love competitive dynamics in a market. I love it if we say parallel. We chose you, but it's close. Stay up there. Everyone else on the list, here's exactly why we didn't choose you. Please fix it. A rising tide lives all ships. Position yourself in a way where you're getting what you want from your providers. forego discounts for optionality. I think we talked about that already. And there's a third option which I'm sensing is the theme of the day which is open weight. That moderate task we're very heavily considering now and we have live in production a lot of openweight traffic as well as reinforcement learned models. They're strong enough to handle workloads. I don't think that they are going to be in the upper right quadrant of capability soon but the gap is closing. And it also gives you negotiation leverage, complete financial independence, choose the inference provider of your choice. Right? I would say 2.6 was the most was the first time this really happened for us. There's been a lot since then, but 2.6 was the first moment where we actually saw it compare to GPT52 and quality. So here's that eval. We saw we see scores and these are on notion specific tasks. Again, you own your product. You get to decide what works for your product. For notion specific tasks that we thought the auto model needed to do for a subset of them, we score just fine. Kim 26 is great. And errors are important, by the way. Errors are what you end up paying for. Um, just as a side note, you're still paying token rates on errors and retries. Think about that in another presentation. But it's not just the token costs. We look at the average number of tokens. There's some crazy things on this like Opus 47 um 46 versus Sonnet. Look at the token consumption. Forget the price on Opus for Sonnet. Look at the token consumption. Right? This is why understanding your whole trajectory is really important for understanding your model. I love um Philip Key has a great book called inference engineering. Um even if you're not an inference nerd, it's good to read. We don't need to be frontier with open weight. It's just a gap in time, right? There's product that we served six months ago that our customers love and they don't want to randomly pay for more tomorrow, right? We're trusting that open weight is closing that gap, but we need to have the right eval and stay on top of it to know when it's there. And that's why investing in your evals are important. How do you win these negotiations? Well, the first thing that you need to do to be ready is think about your architecture, not just your model choice. For us, we've noticed that harness engineering and architecture decisions can account for about 3x the change in price as model selection. Sometimes that means using a native harness like the codecs and the cloud APIs. Sometimes it means using open source like PI. And sometimes it means creating your own harness because there are particular capabilities you want and you understand the implications of how prompt caching etc might affect how you work. Okay. But what if you don't need an LLM at all? I know we said that this is welcome to Token Town, but we're leaving. Okay. We're now departing Token Town. And I want to take us back to an old world. An old world where we used CPUs to do our jobs. This is my uh nano banana I think generated image of an engineer trying to turn a CSV into a PDF and post it on a web hook. Why would he ever need an LLM to do that? Why would you want that repeated task constantly using reasoning tokens to navigate MCPS? Okay, well because Frontier Labs want you to token max. They want you to do it in a way that they control their capacity. It's its own economic issue, but they want you to token max. Your users don't. Your users want you to outcome max. That's why we launched our developer platform and something called workers. At notion, we believe that many tasks do better work on CPUs. Determinism is a valuable thing. State machines existed, right? The pendulum has gone so far because it can, but that's not durable software and it's not affordable software. So we've partnered with Verscell on the capabilities to launch what we call workers where you can actually call on internal APIs computer sandboxes host small small code as an action that your LLM calls. We've seen this decrease token cost by up to 80% for some of our customers on repeated tasks. It's wild out there. I mean, I feel like if I go on a week vacation and I do a good job not looking at Twitter, it's like I I hibernated for two years, okay? Um, I get it. It's exhausting. Take breaks. Take care of yourself. But it's crazy. And the market is so young. It's so opaque. It's moving so fast. And you are a player in it. I find it very sad that we're all kind of rolling over, but we're all together. And our negotiating power is so much stronger if we all advocate for ourselves. And I also think that you owe it to your customers. I'm really proud. I'm so proud and I come to work every day because of the way that I think we make AI accessible and valuable for the fortune 5 million. But not everyone uses notion and I want all of you to do that too. I want us to make AI something that isn't a meme. I mean in California I read a statistic that AI is more unpopular than ICE which is our immigration controls. It's crazy. We don't have the, you know, it's not a popular institution, ICE. So that means AI is really unpopular. Why? Because we're not creating valuable work and we're not doing it at the right price and people aren't seeing the value and there's a ton of Twitter memes, but there's real work to be done and that's our obligation, right? I think it's a powerful technology and I think it's our duty to bring it to our customers in a way that's responsible, durable, and appropriate. So I'm on Twitter a lot as you saw. Please tweet at me. You can always email me. I'll be here in this hemisphere till the end of the week in Melbourne. Um, thank you for your time. Thank you for hosting me. I love Australia. And have a great day.
>> Thank you so much, Sarah. Uh, that's been unnerving. I expected to see her right there. Felt like she was in the room with us. Uh so next up we have someone who whose handiwork I'm sure you will know if you do not know him. It was less than a year ago we had him down in Melbourne. Just on a year ago we had in Melbourne we did an unconference and we had a room of about 50 people and then almost exactly a year ago we're in this in cinema one cinema two with I guess maybe a couple hundred people. Uh since then he's gone and spoke in what 19 countries or like all over the world because of Ralph Wigum. uh which uh I don't know if people even know about Ralph anymore like the the Simpsons character but uh Jeff kind of was innovating ideas about Brack pressure and loops which were crazy and novel 12 months ago which are now being literally there's there's the what what the
>> if you're using uh if you're using things like uh codeex and the goal or cursor grind mode all these longunning tasks that's implementation of Ralph using a day that's where it came from
>> but that was noble back then
>> it's So, it's very exciting for to close this loop, so to speak, uh, and to have him back on stage where we've gone from 50 people in a little room down at Deacon University's downtown center to having 600 people here across a couple of cinemas. So, please welcome or or maybe curse the man who brought us Ralph the Ralph Loop, um, Jeff Huntley.
>> Thank you, John.
>> Hello everyone. Um, my name is Jeff Huntley. Um, I am here today. I want you to agree with me or disagree with me. I don't know where this is going. Like, I'm going to say some pretty provocative things like software development now costs less than minimum wage. I want you to think deeply about this. Software has been commoditized. It's kind of similar to this iPhone in my hand. Anyone can now be a photographer. Doesn't mean that they're a wedding photographer. Product managers can now be a software developer. Doesn't mean they're a software engineer. because a lot of things uh really changed over the last year. So with that with that introduction and done I'd like to say hi mom and I do not work for anyone. I do not represent anyone. These are my own ideas and thinks of where things are going. You see it's been about a year since I intro year and a half since introduced the idea of longunning tasks and agents. You're now using them dayto-day and I've been trying to figure out where everything goes from here. So here's me giving a talk at Alassian about a week before Alassian did their layoffs talking about the unit economics of business have forever changed. Whoops. And uh I want you to think deeply about this because the economics of business have fundamentally changed. Like software is now easy to create. Doesn't mean it is like you're creating the right things. Anyone is now a software developer. You see here, here's a meetup I went to about a 100 days ago before I started doing a lot of my world tour and talks. It was this cursor meet up and here is Roslin. Roslin is not a classical software developer by any means. At this meetup, there was product managers, designers. They're all having the time of their lives, folks. not really software engineers up there because our skill set has been commoditized. You see, in my travels, when I first started doing my travels about 100 days ago, um I did a side quest over in Oakland. I went to Lord of the Rings. I was like, "Yeah, side quest. Let's go do it." And my tour guide operator, he's tour guide operator like, "Jeff, what do you do?" I was like, "I do AI. Please don't judge me." And he's he's like, "No, how good is AI? like I'm building all these things. I'm like, what does it mean for our profession when a tool guide operator is token maxing? You see, everyone is now a software developer, folks. Everyone is now a software developer. I want you to deeply understand that it's been commoditized. Anyone can now write software. Previously, software was gated. You either understood that you can control a computer or you got a user interface that you can click and configure to get the business outcomes. But that's just completely changed now. That's just smashed. The paradigms have smashed. Everyone can now control the computer. They can now write code. Previously, this was gatekeeped. And it's kind of weird because society has been structured around a scarcity of knowledge. Software developers were gatekeeping like, "No, we can't do that. Oh, that would take two weeks, whatever." Um, but it wasn't just that. It was uh like accountants, lawyers, all the white collar professions. We we charge a lot of money because time like expertise means we can charge more for that expertise. But what does it mean when now we've got AI? What does it mean if someone wants to do uh wants to do work of a principal software engineer and uh they start they get a skills pack and they're doing property based testing and deterministic system testing. I saw something yesterday. PewDiePie, believe it or not, PewDiePie is writing better tests than most software engineers here right here today. Go look at his GitHub. He's using Antivus with Bomadil with property based testing. Meanwhile, you're using Playright. What does it mean when the these skills that used to be used to be like used to be scarce are now abundance and we got a YouTuber like just doing better software testing than most software developers or software engineers here today. Wow. Okay. So if I rewind one time around about 2024, I was originally said, oh [ __ ] things are going to change. Things are going to change. And I first wrote uh the publications like, hey, like IDE, no one's going to be using an IDE anymore. And people were calling me mad. Absolutely mad. It's like, no, no, Jeff, I love Intelligj. I love Jet Brains. It's going to be here forever. I'm like, no, it's cooked. It's gone. Um, and uh, for the people in the room here, I'm sure there are a few that might be still using their favorite IDE, but like it's gone. It really is gone. It's been replaced for cloud-based workflows or some other thing. Ideas are now really diff now. This was uh, this was Christmas. So a year's passed and society is now slowly having the same moment in time. I want you to carefully think about this. No matter how much AI gets good and it's getting like this slope on slope derivative of getting good, it it takes down time before people realize society downtime. The reason they had the oh [ __ ] moment wasn't that that the LLMs were getting good. They were already good for societal disruption in 2024. they're already good enough. They they required a lot of skill to get those outcomes. But uh now they're just they're just set and go. They just work. But it took the downtime, the public holidays for people to really sit down and realize that things were getting good. You see the people around me back from 2024 and even before that like the people who are really getting good with AI is we've been putting in deliberate intentional practice. We classify them like musical instruments. You see, mus don't just pick up a guitar and give it a strum and go, "Oh, that that that guitar's crap." And throw it on the ground. They treat it like a calculator. But why is it that employees themselves like we've been forcing these guitars down into corporate and we're we're just going like, "Please play the guitar. Please play the guitar. Please get the guitar. Please like token leaderboard. What else have you?" It's really just literally a curiosity test. Will you pick up the guitar and invest in yourselves, folks? But not everyone is going to be musically inclined is my take. You see, I think there's now two classes of companies. We now have the companies that are already lean in the sense the startups of the last year that are going, "No, we're never going to hire more than 50 people in our company apart from field engineering." Meanwhile, we got everyone down the down on the bottom, which is every single other company out here, and they got to go through a J curve transformation program. Takes three or four years. Normally, that's fine. But here we we here we've got brand new Clay and Christen startups building with slope on slope like pace being able to as the models get better come in to attack the every single other company out there. So, this is going to get interesting. You might have seen this block lays off nearly half its start because of AI. I mean there's been a few things on backwards and forwards. Is this right? Is it not right? My honest take is Jack is right. AI would would allow to reimagine the organizational charts within most companies. Now, I want you to think about Spotify and how they produced those two different videos of like how agile's done, squads, tribes, guilds, and all these things. And all it took was like that video and every single company out there bloody carboncopied it and like they ramped it into their organization. It's going to take one case study. What we have right now, we have Jack, Toby at Shopify, and a few other executives. They're basically getting their organization and like a deck of cards throwing up in the air 52 card pickup style, you know, and it might kill their company, but they might find the winning blueprint. It's only going to take one company to actually get this blueprint, and everyone's just going to copy it through one case study. Pay attention, folks. So for the last five months, I've been traveling around uh from Australia to South Korea, New Zealand, San Fran, Europe, and just kind of having conversations with venture capitalists. And the question that's on every single LP's mind right now and putting pressure on their GP is why does someone need to raise seed capital now? What is the point of uh preede capital? Previously used to need money, raise money to be able to hire the team to build your thing. But now you can just build the thing by expressing what you want to be built. So the disruption is not just within our profession as software developers and in product. It's upstream in finance as well. Like what is the point of capital if it's just a fiveman show? This is the question that's on everyone's minds. There are answers and there's nuances. come find me and I'll go very deep into this because the question on people's mind is like is software still investable. It is but it has to be charged on a unit economics of outcome not charging per seat. That's legacy SAS. So for no particular reason at all every story needs a punching bag. I'm going to choose SAP Concur. Now according to LinkedIn SAP has a fixed overhead of 6,800 people. at 6,800 employees that have to go through a Jcurve people transformation program. They were built like this. Most of the companies today are all being built like this. The idea is you you just like you get your sh your shippers and your builders and you just add middle middle management a middle layer on top of that organization. I want you to think deeply about this because the new companies are coming to market today, they are not wanting to do this and there's companies such as block that are willing to do some wild experimentations to find out what is next and what is different because the question that's on every executive's mind right now is how long does it take to transform 6800 employees and do I have enough time to transform but by the time my business gets disrupted by AI? Not necessarily AI disrupts you, but there's it's going to enable new competitors to market. What happens when your your A team players, they're like, it's going to take too long to do the transformation this company. I don't think this this company is going to be able to do the transformation and they quit and they just create a for brand new company. Has anyone noticed that the minimum hire at the labs these days are CTO's like uh workday? You're like the person who was in charge with the people transformation within workday itself. It's like no, I'm just going to get a job at the lab and then I'm going to like destroy workday in the reverse fashion. So the question is why would you transform 6,800 employees? If you're not bailing ship, you'd be thinking like why would I transform more? Because we all know that smaller teams get better outcomes. And here's a story from a founder in New Zealand. We're smaller but effectively cut two/3s by saying we wouldn't backfield. Folks, for the developers not in the room, go have a talk with uh people in business and finance like this is the quiet thing that's not been said aloud is not necessarily those AI layoffs as such. Just backfields are stopped been stopped for quite a while for a while and it was from this founder. was one of the best decisions to get rid of all the people who are sick of hearing about AI, the detractors. They're 20 people now down from 60 and they're getting more output than they ever have before. Notice the date. This is three years ago, folks. If you might thinking about making changes to your organization response to AI, you're not late, but you're not early. You see, this is going to be hard for people. You think about the you think about all the people who have do done game of thrones social political activities. This is one of the most disruptive parts of AI is no person is going to give away their power. it's going to turn into kind of hunger games as it goes through this JC curve transformation program because as we figure out whether this is even possible not that I'm advocating for it but there are a lot there's a there's a lot of lot of companies working on figuring out the right the design for this from an organization thing and there's even companies in SF that are actually working on building products to enable this type of thing we call it the AI operating system deep. I don't know where this goes. I want you to think deeply about it. But one thing I know for sure is experience as a software developer today does not guarantee relevance tomorrow. You mean like software developers trade time and skill for money. If a company's having problems adopting AI, that's a company issue. That's not your own issue. Right? If if you're working for a company that has banned AI outright, you should quit that company. Put your family unit first. Invest in yourselves, folks. You mean if they're having problems with AI, that's a company issue. The company's got to fix their own particular issues. I want people to think quickly. I wrote this about almost a year and a half ago when I was a tech lead at Canva. And this is my own personal journey and also for interviewing other engineers at Canva. And we found that as we rolled out these tools, people fell somewhere along this. This was me. I was great. It was like AI is not good enough. Prove it to me. It's not hype. You start experimenting with it slowly and slowly and you go, "Oh, [ __ ] Well, I have a job in the future." And eventually you get past it and you start building with AI and then that you're a consumer and next thing you know you start learning how it all works under the hood and then you're actually a builder with AI. Now for the leaders in the room I want the question is how do you actually build the bridge to support your staff across this chasm? The other question is for leaders you might be noticing why there's a line in it this year from the time I gave this talk last year. It's simple. I don't hire people on the left of the line anymore. There's a large pool of people who have been curious. I call this a curiosity test who understand how all everything all works. This is the line that you should be looking for this. A senior engineer should be able to explain how AI works under the hood. If I was to ask you what a primary key is, you're like, Jeff, what are you doing? You [ __ ] testing me? Like this used to be the the most basic question you ask your intern junior like what's a primary key is a database. Have fun mate don't drop it. Um but why is it when I ask a software engineer what is an agent? Show me one. Build me one on a whiteboard they they freeze up or they can't get into specifics. An agent is really simple folks. It's this is the big scary boogeyman that everyone's scared about. It's a wild true loop. It takes it takes the prompt, adds it to an array. You send it off for inferencing, and you look whether it needs to execute a tool to automatically copy and paste that response back, and it sends it off for another turn. It's really simple. Senior software engineers should be able to be be able to explain this as a sequence diagram on a graph. This is the new bar from at least from my point of view for interviewing. See how deep they can go on this knowledge because it's a curiosity test. I have a workshop for the software engineers who haven't done this. You can build your own cursor, claw code, and uh pi. Like it's 300 lines of code. It's really simple. Build your own coding agent. It is so simple. It's going to be really interesting to see how this all pans out, folks. Like I don't know where this goes. I don't think anyone does. If anyone says they know for sure, they're selling you horseshit. Um because for a lot of people they think nothing has really changed and this scares me deeply. Scares me deeply. We're already seeing the the start of like the uh anti- AI aspects in society. People like oh it's using too much too much water. It's no it's a closed loop system like like ah we're already seeing some of the outrage spoke uh punch up you see because a lot of people are pretending that nothing has really changed but really AI is kind of borrowing under the foundation and the safety net of many people and their family units you know they wake up you have no job it's like why AI but really was it really AI or was the person not investing in themselves and stay relevant Closing ponderos removing waste in from your systems and processes is a bigger accelerator than AI itself. I have clients here in Australia a banking one that h had one git repo per UI component in the design atom design library in Adam. This is stupid. That is waste. Um, if you have multiple sources of truth, you got stuff in Jira, you got other things in Google Docs and other things like that, that's also waste, you know, like establishing single sources of truth is really important. Also, this interesting enough, this is how you figure out who you should hire for engineering manager. You should be asking them what is AI broken in the systems and processes like do you use agile anymore? How have you not used agile? What have you changed? Where was the waste? What did you do? What was the outcomes? Here this is you leading indicator for engineering manager what to hire. The old saying was ideas are every the ideas are worth nothing. Execution is everything. But what does it mean if you can just literally like when I want something I go to a company's website take a screenshot of their marketing material rip a fart into my coding agent and I get that feature. Like I literally go handbag shopping for features for SAS things these days. So it everything here has been inverted. Ideas what to build is still very important and it is one of the hardest questions of ever be it's ever been. But the idea that like execution is uh is more important like no no ideas are more important execution because execution is now commoditized. This is going to be really hard for a lot of folks. For the software engineers in the room you might have a conversation today. It's like what do you do? Oh, I'm a Golang developer. I'm a cool. Do you use Neoim? Do you use Intelligj? Do you use VS Code? And uh you it might be quite rude, but I go none of that matters anymore. You Ruby doesn't matter. There's an identity that you speak to. I work for this bank. I work for this tech stack and it's n years of experience. Doesn't matter. And this is one of the things that gets people to get their oh [ __ ] moment and like get really stuck dear in the headlights is all these things is these functions or these identity of who you are uh have been erased by AI not just in software but for nearly every single field and really it really it comes down into have you been investing in yourself have you been curious folks because it is so important to re really invest in yourself. If you're having AI rolled out in your company, they're sending you a message. The message is just pick up the guitar. Learn how these things work under the hood. Like there are many engineers who have implemented some of my ideas in the last year and they're just insta promotions. I've had many talks over the last 100 days where this has taken place. Please build an agent. Be an engineer who was curious. understand what a engine is and the piston tool calls and everything else like that. Don't be just someone who's just a complete consumer. Thank you.
>> Thank you so much, Jeff. Uh I've seen that talk quite a few times. I've seen it evolve over the last year, but well done. Uh and uh yeah, one of quite a few Australians we'll have on our stage in the next couple of days who are really having an impact like George. Are you going to move to San Fran or you? No. All right. Good. That's good to see. Good to see. All right. So, next up we're going to try the highwire act again and we have Eigor Costa. So, come in Eigor. Hello. Have we Can we have fun?
>> All right. I'm sure it's gonna we'll work this one out.
>> I must I kind of Here we are. Eagle, can you hear me?
>> I can.
>> Awesome. All right. So, I have had the privilege of getting to know Ego over the last few months because uh I've been really interested in the technology he's been developing. Uh in particular, he's been doing some interesting work around evolutionary algorithms, which is something I've kind of had a 40 year long obsession with. Uh so Eager was I was a former leader of GitHub's AI efforts behind Copilot and over the last year or so he has founded AutoHand uh and they're doing a lot of really interesting work in this space that he's going to explain a little bit about. Um he's going to talk to us about why our coding agents forget everything and the architecture of memory. Uh so please welcome Igor Costa.
>> Thank you. It's very kind of him. Appreciate it. Uh hello everyone. Um thank you for watching today and everyone that is watching on YouTube later. I appreciate it. Uh my name is Igor as John said. Um in today talk I'm talking about like why agents forget things? Um but before I start, how many of you have at least 100 agents running right now? None of you. Okay, cool. Um It's fascinating like like you're gonna see a lot of exciting people here today. But hey mom, I think I'm gonna take I'm going to copy what Jeff said. Hey mom. Hey wife. Hey kids at home. Um so this is an advertisement in in Melbourne right here. Um it says electricity it's a massive new thing. Um, and I'm very fascinated about history and and philosophy. And I think that's what accumulated probably accumulated my the whole experience in this space. And we had that little character over there. I don't know if you remember, but co-pilot we also have that little head span that we have a logo and then we call a name. We had that in 18850s. It took us probably 150 years to get where we are today. And then it's the same thing. Electricity gives h every household at the power of countless workers without wages sleep or rest. Isn't it what we're doing right now? But the problem they're not that very smart. So they're building stateless. And that's why I left GitHub to build my own. I said I think we approaching the problem in the wrong way. Um and it has to take a lot of courage because bootstrapping and the age of AI it's not it's not an easy game. It's very expensive. So we built the first coding CLI and the coding CLI that we did was very simple. We did to optimize how can I run at least 20 or 30 instance of this on a daily basis and I've tested all these you know the frontier labs agents out there and they don't scale more than 20. Uh my computer gets completely useless like it consumes a lot of memory and I got hooked on that and I was like I'm going to build my own. So, you know, you start a session, halfway through the session, probably 10 or 15 message, the agent basically like forgets what what's doing. It's like, bloody damn it, that's not what I want. And we keep adding stuff. We keeping it adding more stuff to it. We've added context window. We've increase response. Um, and we treating this as normal. I'm not um like the window for context science we've launched co-pilot like 20 probably 2021 in August we were the first one to created like a generative AI product in the hands of people 3 months later was chatpt um we've increased from 4,000 tokens we were battling how to get fit in everything in the context to be able to answer 10 suggestions on auto completion um to a million and we sort of like plateau because if you look at the benchmarks that you other presentations did here. We sort of like didn't go beyond that point and and then contests keep growing, right? But the problem is we fear things that we've create and in the way that we create things is like we treating the same thing as context and memory. They are very different things and probably they're the same thing. I don't know. I don't know the answer yet. I'm discovering. I'm curious like everyone else here. Um, so to understand better, let's talk about like the nine types. I I I've probably researched these as much as I could, probably already too many papers, 75 to be honest. And there's quite a lot of them. Like we we're still treating them as the working memory, episodic memory, sematic memory, but probably to compact this into 18 minutes and then continue with presentation. I probably focus in four. So let's talk about semantic memory. we the industry came up with this concept of like agents.md you define the rules of engagement you define how you access things you define uh the framework that you're using but turns out that at least seven out of 10 they don't follow what you write there because that's a limitation on the on the models and then we went to procedure memory is like you know what how can we increase the quality of our training data set at scale skills is I think in my opinion is the most um social experiment experimentation ever and put in the hands of everyone say hey let's create a skill we can collectively accumulate all your experiences memory is a is accumulation of experiences and we can train and get our models better and turns out have you seen the jump between the latest models that we released this week because every week is a new model the marginal it's they're all marginal gains right so we trying to scale I think in an accidental way we we've we've balized the word is scaling very much. Um, and then we talk about episodic memory. There's by far, I think probably the last two weeks that when coding agents start having the idea of experimentation in memory, but episodic memory, it's something that is very peculiar in coding agents because time is a dimension that memory always ignores. So, you're working yourself with a bunch of agents, it's easy, but when you work in a group of teams, it's very hard. It's a hard problem to feel because everyone has a different opinion. A different different opinion means no consensus. No consensus means drifting, collapsing, right? It's really hard especially when when you try to do this. And if you hear that or you've been across this, you're absolutely right. Shut down your session because you are completely lost. Um so then comes the reflective memory. That's the last one that is very important and I think that's the models now turning to realize and then there's a shift in the industry towards that area um where you adapt you know what will be doing differently or probably what happened during the session and then there's like what happened here um probably there are like three or five startups that trying to solve this problem. Um but it's still though memory will change all of this stuff and maybe we are that's that's my philosophical question and I I'm a great observer of nature. Maybe we approaching this in the wrong in the wrong way. I believe intelligence should be distributed not concentrated in four players not including ourselves. I don't believe that and that's why we're building something different. So this is our coding CLI. I need to understand first remember we've open sourced the CLI um it's basically like a coding agent has the same functionalities as codeex um cloud code gemini um cursor agent but is open it's transparent it's not P as well P didn't exist when we started code our coding CLI I think they started Mario started three weeks later and great concept as well but we put it everything inside that was basically how I would like to make things and once single agents you you sort of like we we've implemented this thing of like memory preferences or user preferences from the very beginning. So we store this in basic format like there's nothing more um I'd say faster than a file reading your in your SSD. There's nothing more like if someone's trying to sell you a an awesome KV database or a vector database you're basically adopting SAP. Um there's nothing more faster than that and I've benchmarked this. Um and then we came with this concept at Autoan that we open so it's called commander. I think two weeks later Charlie from conductor build you could create like more now probably like 30 or four coding agents ADIs out there aentic development environment and it's a we we've put it like the collective memory. It was an experimentation. It's still an experimentation. This has been running our coding CLI agent has been downloaded probably 300,000 times and every day is 150,000 people using and the more you use the better it gets because it's accumulate the memory. Um we've put those four memories that I've discussed here and then I discuss about the shared memory. So how can I make these things like a single source of truth right and and how can I make agents to collaborate like human dos with a consensus and is believe it or not the same behavior that we've observed in humans or you know in organization charts happen to agents as well they don't get they don't agree with each other um so I wrote this paper so this is a paper called um agent spawn the idea is to mimic what happens in nature When you have a kid, you genetically share some of the traces or your aspects of physical ability or intellectual ability to your kids. So they have 50/50 from your partner and and so on. So the agents instead instead of like you try to load everything in the context, you load what is task at hand, you reflect upon and then you spin a new version of that with a different opinion. So then you can sort of like guide them how to you how to do this. And why I did this um it's very simple because I've been very obsessed with the idea of like long horizon coding agents running in a very very long time more than 48 hours. Um and turns out there's not a lot of people doing this and I think probably we are still discovering a lot of stuff. Um and it was very simple. We wanted to detect the drift like if if the model you know in a random way tries to mimic the behavior of the context that was given in the beginning and then gives the answer that you're absolutely right probably it's not the right right thing. So and we transfer that memory to a different agent and then maybe that agent doesn't have the same ability or same skill sets or the same of instructions that we have before. And then we had another problem. We had the problem with collapse. Um so like I said, they don't come up with an agreement. Um it's a very simple problem, you know, in a in a nutshell. But when you see them working together, it's quite hard. So how do you do this? So we've we've created like a memory sort of like a model system. So we abandon the idea of large language models. We only use large language model as a as a dependency, not as a first class citizen. I saw the notion there showing the logos of the models. It's kind of cool. Probably it's like in a in a six months, in a year's time, they're not going to use that anymore because it is is relevant. Um, we're moving so fast. So then I said myself, well, what's the best idea to validate this against Evolve? Well, let's use the taste that Linux 12 has. So I want I I run I've built this application. We run this to for more than 10 months. As you can see here, it's still running. We are still trying to migrate the Linux kernel to Rust. So there's 10 months running there. We haven't been successful. I'm sorry Linux, not today. But we are getting closer. Um when we started the experiment, we probably had only 12% migrated successfully. Um and then the secret sauce behind this is from a AI lab in that's why we abandon the lighting motor from a AI lab in Singapore. um they came up with this new architecture called hierarchical reasoning model. So the mo the memory is the model. Um so instead of like sort of like trying to do things in a different way or in compatibleized way it's one thing right. So you can do smaller dense models based on your data sets that you already have which basically like your customer data or any transactional data that you have your sessions. um you can do 20 million parameters model up to two billion parameters model doesn't mean that we can train this much faster. So our cycles for training now is went from a weekly basis checkpoints to probably like 3 hours or five hours depending on the day and we can see a progression of that. Um but there's we we we really think that it's like okay you solve the problem. No we are not there yet. we are very early on the on the journey but there is a lot of I'd say um there's a lot of evidence there and then in the absence of evidence we use the gut feeling right as a humans but when you have evidence in the data you sort of like know that might be the way that you should go and I treat this with with you know skepticism I I don't take a grant like okay the data is telling me this probably we should approach in a different way but because we are using now in an agented way. Experimentations is very cheap. So when I start training my own models, which is probably half a million dollars, right? There sunk um nowadays like it cost you $500 to train, right? So the cost of ownership of the cost of intelligence is dramatically reducing and we believe that you should own your AI. We believe that the whole stack should be in your hands because that's how we create societies. So here are some of the challenge that we couldn't face or we couldn't fix it. Memory correctness um it's a very hard problem. We haven't managed to sort it out yet. We are still researching this area. I can't publish the paper yet but we are we are close to solve this. The second one it's the memory as a first class citizen for training signals. So models learns memory stores they're very separate ways. How can we make sure that when we do for example multilure on on recursive language models uh can be adapted much quicker than than you know still trying to fix I think this presentation um and that's my story um I try to make it as quick as possible as simplified as I can but before Before I finish off, obviously I still have a few more minutes. I I love the idea of like how do we interpret the world? And as I was walking through here, did you guys hear the Aboriginals talking to you? Give me five. This talk was to share a little bit from the trenches what we experienced when we started building full duplex voice agents with Python and the sort of challenges that we had and when we were scaling for countries like India where they were looking at cost-ffective means of potentially calling probably 10 million users per week uh or even highv value customers where even the slightest glitch or pause would really ruin the voice user experience and And this these are hard learned lessons and there's a reason why we chose Rust. Uh I could literally complete this entire conversation by saying that hey Python's conversational phase or essentially map that to a conversational phase and then use that phase to control how the conversation flows through. Right? Pretty simple. Um the idea is that uh yeah uh state machines and reg x go really well together. You don't need an LLM to constantly operate on the transcript. uh you could essentially have a reg x of a million odd patterns to essentially do what a small capable LLM can do. This is one of those things that we completely forgot. Like for example, if you want the customer to repeat after what you just said as an example, you're collecting debt, you want to quot a regulation and say that do you understand? You've got to repeat to consent. These are sorts of things that you can compute with regex in a conversational flow and it gives ultra low latency. You don't need to waste an LLM call to do that, right? And bring in a certain amount of determinism into a really capable model that can handle arbitrariness, right? Um so it needs to be deterministic where it must be. Example if you want to model it as a DAG let's say it needs to take these three steps before the fourth step needs to be taken. You need that kind of control loops. That's the sort of capabilities that we're building. No SDKs that these frontier model companies are building have this because they they've not seen too many customers deploy this at this scale. What we're doing is seeing the initial bunch of customers who are really pushing the limits of this. Eventually, you'll see these capabilities sort of absorb get absorbed back into the product, but right now it's really the wild west. So, I'm not saying Python ADK is bad. It it is not suitable for a real-time hotpath. If you want to use production voice agents at scale with a millisecond budget, you know, you've got to move to Rust. And the idea is that the latency budget is the architecture here for voice agents. you do not have any uh you know sort of uh let's say uh headroom for you to absorb like text agent where the model's probably thinking the user is probably reading you don't have any UX forgiveness it's completely unforgiving so therefore we chose Rust and we rebuilt ADK and we sort of were able to make a million calls a day outbound at scale receive over 100,000 calls a day inbound fairly demanding contact centers on vernac languages in India. But uh it's it's sort of a testimony to what sort of scale the system can sustain. That is it. Uh I've shared the repo uh along with the crates link. Please do take it around for a spin. I have a contributing guide in there. I'm happy and I'm looking for contributors from the community. Uh we will not change the license type. It will be Apache 2.0. Uh and it'll continue to be Apache 2.0. Thank you. Awesome. Thanks so much, Vampi. Uh, now normally at this time I spend a whole bunch of time explaining everything that's happening and thank and we just have so much going on that I'm not going to do that. Uh, I'm just going to say a couple of things to make sure you get the most out of the event. But the the key thing is probably just look at those QR codes. So, let me go through them. So there's a live schedule and if anything changes we'll be updating that and that will also have news that pops up during the day if anything comes up. If you've not yet logged into attendees.web.org that's the second one where talk about making connections. So we have an optin directory of everyone here right? So if you opt in uh you can see everyone else has opted in and you can see who's here even make connections and get hopefully surface people here. you might otherwise not just bump into with serendipity. Um, we've also with Jana who did the opening video, a whole bunch of great videos that are that are happening on on social media. She's interviewing people and so on. We put together a series of quests. Uh, and the idea behind that, they're not pointless exercises. They're actually things that will hopefully help you break the ice with other people, maybe help you reflect on the talks that you you see and your experience here. And we've got a couple of great prizes. We got a couple of Segway escooters uh as prizes for people who do those quests. Uh so all the details are there if you log into attendees.direction.org and go to the quests or there that link takes you straight there. And as I said, it's really all a big part of it's about helping kind of you get the most out of this experience. So huge thanks to Jana for helping us put that together. And then who has their own like claw or agent that they kind of carry around with them? All right. Well, you can bring them to the conference, right? So, that final uh QR code there, uh basically we've set it up so that there's a live stream of all the captions. Uh so, basically, we do a real time captioning and that's available as a live stream and also what we do is we capture the each frame or every few seconds we capture a frame, we give it to Gemini. Uh Gemini then goes and converts it to structured uh content. uh it'll do text descriptions it will have all the text there any link becomes a link everything's available to your agent right so essentially your agent can be at the conference with you uh I've written up what we've done there so it's all running on cloudflare by the way people are really sleeping on cloudflare is an amazing developer program uh platform now they are a partner of of the conference but actually I've been using them for a long time and incredible platform right so bring your agent now this is totally an experiment this is very much alpha we've been updating it as we go. People on the stream, they've been saying, "Hey, it's been saying this." I've been feeding that back into my coding system that's been updating. So, it's very uh real time. Uh it's a bit of an experiment, but hopefully you'll enjoy that. And finally, we got like a ton of amazing partners. You probably saw when you got into Zinc. So, here's what's going to happen. We have some food and coffee up here. Uh we've got an hour break and we're going to come back for AI engineering is in this cinema. software engineering is in cinema 2. Then if you have a leadership pass, we have the leadership sessions down in the Swinburn. It's just on the on the entrance where you came in, we'll we'll we'll have volunteers. Right underneath us, we have a whole bunch of catering and coffee in particular. Have you have specific dietary requirements, not not not vegetarian things, but if you've asked for very specific ones, they will all be served there. Uh but the majority of the catering and the coffee and all the expo is down at Zinc. So we give it an hour for each of the breaks to give it time. So if you if it looks too busy here, please just go straight down there. We also have what we're calling the hallway track. So that's going to happen during the breaks and even some of it during these sessions. There's a bunch of uh sponsors who are coming to talk, but also we've got some invited speakers. All of this is in your schedule on live.direction.org. So take advantage of that as well. And the last thing is just a little encouragement to you to go and visit all of our wonderful partners. Some are community, some are the startups, some are agencies, and then some really well-known names, including our amazing sponsors, Google Cloud and Google DeepMind. If you check in with all of them, one of the people who checks in with everyone will win a Mac Mini. So, you can safely hope keep it keep your claw isolated from everything else. Uh, and run actually probably run lots of claws on your Mac Mini. Anyway, so there's a whole bunch of stuff there. Uh let's finish up now before we head downstairs or head over to Zinc by thanking all of our wonderful speakers from this morning. That's it. Uh we've got the wonderful volunteers in the red tissue engineering. They're here to help. If you got a question, just ask them. If you need something, ask them. They'll get back to me or Rosemary or Jenny who are taking ultimate responsibility for everything. We'll solve any problem to the extent we possibly can. Thanks again. Take a great back break. Remember, it's about 5 minutes walk up from Zinc. We'll be back here at exactly 12:30, so 1 hour and 1 minute. We've done pretty well this morning. Uh until then, go and enjoy and see you back in an hour. Yeah. My I feel I want you. Everything better.