Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. It is Friday, November 7th. Thank you everybody for being here. It is an ugly pre-market to cap off a ugly ugly week in the stock market and it's just one of those days. It is one of those days, but it has felt like one of those days honestly for the past couple days and so I understand it is uh pretty annoying across the board. We got a lot of different headlines, got a lot of different earnings from yesterday to cover. Obviously things are ugly right now in the pre-market. Ethereum and Bitcoin not really holding up. Ethereum right there at 3200. Bitcoin right now at 100.2. It was just at 99.1 about an hour ago. And so you are seeing a little bit of rebound, but nonetheless, you're seeing some decent pain. S&P 500 already down.37% in the pre-markets. We're at 667. So we lost 670. Uh we were holding 670 relatively strong yesterday. We did close at 670, but today we lose it in the pre-markets. And so when the market opens, we're going to see if we can continue to hold it. Robin Hood down 2% was down 11% yesterday after one of the best earnings that the company's ever put up. Tesla, Elon Musk did get paid. We'll talk a little bit more about the Tesla compensation package, but Tesla right now is down about 1.4%. Open Door down 23% on the day after their earnings. Take two. Grand Theft Auto is delayed until November 2026. That one's down 4%. MP Materials is down 4%. Nvidia 184 back below 185. Nvidia is down 3%. Oaklows down 6% 35 cents away from going below 100. Rocket Lab 47 down 3%. SoFi 2668 down 2%. You kind of see the picture. BMR down 1%. I ran down 3% even though I ran out of good earnings. Meta down another 1%. It's an ugly day. It's an ugly ugly ugly day. And uh as a result you are seeing the pain of that ugliness. So the question then becomes and and we'll kind of get started with this. Why are we having that type of pain? And obviously yesterday I don't think there was that sort of signature headline that everyone can point to to be able to say, "Hey, this is the number one reason why there's so much pain. This is the number one reason why there's so much red." Um I've come to a conclusion that number one, it's about the labor market. We do have some more updates about the labor market in terms of jobless claims, which readther which which um sort of continue to further make the argument that we are in a weak labor market. So we'll look at that in a second. Number two, I think we're in a momentum draw down with the flushing out that's happening in front of us. And uh I think that flushing out event today, the only concern that I have and I think the only thing that all of us should be looking out for is hey, can we stop the bleeding? That's the number one thing. Can we stop the bleeding? Uh I don't I'm not even I I I don't we don't need a green reversal. We don't need stocks to go back to their 200 day move moving average. We just need to see some form of a bottom that is being formed because right now, quite frankly, I think the reason people are so annoyed is because you don't know where the bottom is. And that's why any dip buyers that took a chance at the dip yesterday, it hasn't worked because you know if you bought the dip of Robin at 129 after it fell from 140, now it's at 124, right? So it's like another 3 4% dip. And that gets very annoying. And so the the question then becomes, is there a way for us to see when things kind of stall, stay in one place, and then start to at least have a chance to move higher. I don't know how Grab's up 2% in the pre-markets because everything's red, but Grab's up a little bit. Expedia did have good earnings. That's up 14%. or does the bottom fall out today and do we continue going red? Not to mention it's a Friday and it's so funny because Fridays in every other like part of the world, every other profession, every other job is like, "Oh, it's Friday, end of the week. I'm ready to have fun." In the stock market, usually on Fridays we go red because no one wants to no one wants to hold stocks over the weekend and Wall Street institutions, market makers in general, they they tend to dump on Friday. So, uh, you already should expect red every time we have Friday, options expire. You have a bunch of different stuff happening. But if the market's already been red all week, you know, there's not that many people that tend to want to buy stocks on a Friday. So, it's it's just going to be one of those things we have to see today. How much of that momentum gets flushed out, if that momentum continues to get flushed out and, you know, if this gets a little bit worse as we are getting through the rest of the day. Here is the update on the labor market. We do have some additional jobs data, not from the BLS because the government is still closed. I think the government shutdown is also contributing to some of the red that we're seeing. But more jobless claims theoretically are going higher. Again, we don't have jobless claims because the government is closed. Uh which could be contributing to another weaker labor labor market.
>> Analytics, our data provider rising by 10,000 on the week. Still a modest 229. You can see that in the next chart. They're rising. It's the top of the range where they've been the past several months, but not really through the roof though. continuing claims that keeps edging higher together with that surge in mass layoffs that we reported yesterday from Challenger. Well, that suggests maybe some further weakening ahead that bears watching. Meanwhile, the separate count of continuing claims by federal workers. That's worth watching here. It continues to surge now topping 23,000. That's the highest since 2019, reflecting perhaps some impact of the shutdown. Also, the beginning of the wave of laidoff federal workers who would now be eligible for benefits applying for those benefits. We do have a slew of alternative jobs reports giving an impression of a labor market I would say cooling but not crashing. None of the indicators are giving runaway signals either way. Take a look at the signs of strength or stability. The ADP preliminary data we get we gave you a week ago that's 14,000 average for weekly um uh job gains. And then the national report was up from 20 from minus 29,000 now to 42. We brought you yesterday the Chicago Fed's estimate of the unemployment rate pretty much unchanged around 4.3% and there's that initial claims. Now let's look at the signs of weakness. Um challenger job cuts report got to top that list at gaining 153,000 continuing claims edging higher towards the top of the range there. The Indeed jobs posting above the um the the standard of 100 but has been ticking down continuously. And then the ISM manufacturing and service employment indices both of those are had ticked up on the week but they remain below 50. So subjectively I put them into the weakness categories. Uh we're putting all this together folks and you can see oh one more thing we have uh yeah you can read our coverage of at a new site that we created cnbc.com alt/altt data the Fed looking at all this data. So, as you can see, alternative jobs claims suggesting that uh we have another 10,000 of claims that hit the tape this month or this uh yeah, this month of um October, last month. Um yeah, that's not the best thing. So, I mean, look, this idea that we're not going to get a a cut in December, I think is absolutely rid. We're seeing more than enough data for why we would get a cut. The big news yesterday was that Challenger, which is a third party firm, basically showed that we have had the most number of layoffs in the private market in October since 2003. Again, I don't know how JPAL, this 175,000 doesn't cut when you see data like that. Not to mention, there's, you know, plenty and plenty of headlines of uh the the the labor the layoffs that we are seeing being cited due to AI. In fact, the Challenger study said that AI in particular was one of the core reasons that payment providers and employers said, "Hey, this is likely why we don't need so many jobs." And if that's the case, then, you know, there's something that we do have to think about in the context of AI, but also the only thing the Fed can do is cut rates at that point. And so, we're going to see how December ends up playing out. The probabilities for December are 70.6. So that's actually up from yesterday at 69.1. But I do think we will be getting that December cut. In terms of uh fear and greed, we are indeed in extreme fear, which usually is the signal to buy. Again, today I I I don't think buying this dip is horrible. I just don't think going allin is the right strategy. I think nibbling on your favorite stocks and if they keep dipping, then it is what it is, right? Like you if you want to hold them longterm, then you just have to be able to withstand continued dips. But I think if you have like 10,000 and you're ready to buy the dip, you know, maybe you allocate 2,000 out of that 10,000 and save the other 80% of it for when you get more clarity. And if you have to buy higher, then it is what it is. But it's better to have some of that money ready to deploy versus keeping it all in the market and then it just completely continues to go further down. So we are in extreme fear and today the number one thing I want to see is can we find any level of a bottom to stop the bleeding? That's really what matters today. Can we stop the bleeding or does this have to continue? Okay, I have the Grab news and I guess that is what's creating Grab going green right here. Indonesia is discussing a possible merger or acquisition between ride hailing and food delivery firm Grab and its rival GoTo. The presidential spokesperson said on Friday, "The government considers the ride hailing industry as strategic for job creation and vital to the economy. Goto's unit alone has 3.1 million online riders and Goto and Grab have dominated the Indonesian market for years." That's interesting. So, you know, the the if anyone's kept up with the Grab story, the Goto and Grab merger has been talked about for a long time. I kind of gave up on it um a couple months ago because it just seemed like it was going to die out and you know, Goto was doing their thing, Grabb is doing their thing. There's always a lot of fuel to the fire for why they would end up doing the buyout. The fact that a official for the Indonesian president is giving a direct quote that they are looking into a merger is kind of wild. It means that there might be some truth to this uh grab right here up 1.6%. I don't know if that's enough to actually make it move in a sea of red. It is getting some momentum right here in the pre-markets. Look, if that happens, I think that would be very accive to grab. They have the cash to get it done. I don't think they have to spend all four, five billion cash they have to get the merger. But if they do take out go uh go to you know, you're adding a 100 million users to the platform. I mean, that would massively accelerate growth. it would be well over 30% in 2026 if that merger does happen. So, I guess we're going to have to see over the long term if that takes place. But you got that news and that's potentially why that's green in the pre-market. Um, all right, let's get into some of the other headlines that we got. So, again, yesterday was pretty ugly, but in the midst of that ugliness, you did have at least Mr. Elon Musk getting paid, which was very nice to see. Oh, we got a Trump tweet. Hold on. We got actually a couple Trump tweets. Uh, number one, oh, we got well, okay, we have three tweets. Number one is, "Nancy Pelosi, the old and broken political hack who impeached me twice and loss is finally calling it quit. She illegally made a fortune in the stock market, ripped off the American public, and was a disaster for America. I'm glad to see the stench of Nancy Pelosi go." Okay, that's number one. Republicans terminate the filibuster and bring back the American dream. If you don't do it, the Dems will, and you'll never see office again. That's number two. And number three, just say no. Terminate the filibuster. Okay, that's what you got. I mean, look, I really hope that we can get this shutdown completed. There was a lot of senators that came on the program for CNBC over the past couple of days and they said, "Hey, we think that the shutdown will be avoided by the end of this week." We got a couple days left until the end of this week. So, I guess we're going to see if the shutdown actually does get avoided. But, I mean, if Trump is saying to get rid of the filibuster, I don't know if he's necessarily encouraging negotiation between uh the Democrats and Republicans to end the shutdown. It's now been 40 days, the longest shutdown in history. And I think this is also affecting the market. I think this is obviously also affecting the market because the market is starting to realize that if we can't get this going, you're going to have a lot of people that just don't have a job. They don't have a job. They don't have money. They don't have money. Obviously, they can't spend on goods and services. Elon's uh $1 trillion compensation package did get approved yesterday with over 75% of the vote. Uh I watched the entire shareholder meeting. I was watching it with a lot of you guys. And look, he paints a very bright and optimistic picture for Tesla. And I think he deserves the one trillion compensation if he can get Tesla to 8.5 trillion. And I again, I I I've never understood the bare case for the compensation package. Like if he gets the stock to go up 10x, he gets a lot of money. But whoever is invested also in makes their investment go up 10x. Like that's obviously seems like a good deal to me. But um it was approved 75% of the vote. I I I called it 7030 before the vote happened. And so I had a feeling like it would be overwhelming in his favor and it did which is good to see. And that's what you got with Elon. The the most important thing that Elon said yesterday is that he's thinking of building a chip fab. And this was kind of crazy to hear because basically he was like we don't have enough demand even if we look at the best case for chip production from our suppliers.
>> How do we make enough chips? Um so uh you know have a lot of respect for our the the Tesla partners TSMC and Samsung. Um yeah, you know, maybe we'll we'll we'll do something with Intel. Uh we we haven't signed any deal, but it's probably worth having discussions with Intel. Uh but um even when we extrapolate the best case scenario for chip production from our suppliers, uh it's still not enough. So I think we may have to do a Tesla Terraab. So, it's like giga but way bigger. Um, I I can't see any other way to get to the volume of chips that that we're looking for. Um, so I think we're probably going to have to build a gigantic trip app. Okay. So, and by the way guys, that's that's not my audio. Tesla's audio yesterday was just horrible. Like, I don't understand why their audio was so bad, but the entire stream for their audio, it's like you could barely hear what the speakers were saying and everything. But basically, he says there is so much demand that even in the best case scenario for uh Samsung and TSMC, which are their partners, to be able to get these chips out, they won't have enough chips. And he's thinking, hey, I mean, he throws out Intel. Maybe we'll do something with Intel. It's worth looking at. Intel was up 4% as soon as he said that. And then second, he said maybe we have to build our own gigaf. Now, do I actually think Elon's going to get into the chip production game? No, I wouldn't bet against it. I just wouldn't be optimistic to bet for it. Uh so I wouldn't say they won't do it, but I definitely wouldn't put money on the line saying they will do it because again, these are very, you know, hard things. It takes 5 to 10 years to even get an entire chip app to be set up. But the point is what he said kind of takes us into the conversation around open AI and what's going on in the AI space of the market. So open AI Sam Alman had a really long tweet yesterday basically trying to save his ass after saying that the government should backs stop a lot of the federal loans when it comes to compute and uh we'll talk about the response from the government on this. But at its core Sam Alman has been saying there's not enough compute. There's not enough compute. There's not enough compute. We need way more demand. We need trillions and trillions of dollars to build up all this demand. And I think we all like understand the argument, but a lot of us, you know, are annoyed that Sam Alman is the one saying this. And it's like the question is like, is it actually real? What's happening? How are we thinking about it? Then you got someone like Elon who, you know, also is operating a company that has two direct implications of this compute, which is FSD and robotics, not just an LLM, but something that, you know, we can see in the physical embodiment of AI. And he's saying there's not enough demand even in the best case scenario. So when you've got Elon saying we need way more chips and compute than we can even imagine and Sam Alman saying that you've got two pretty important people in the world of AI saying that there is simply not enough supply to handle this demand. Maybe that continues to make the case for why capex will continue to go higher. I think another reason we've seen this read over the past couple weeks is because there is some concern about is capex going to continue in the way that it's going to continue and that's a bit of a silly concern because all the hyperscalers have already guided for 2026 being well above expectations. Now, they can always take that guy down, but nonetheless, you know, based on the data that we're seeing, it's hard to imagine that capex is going to go down. So, Elon kind of just reconfirming the argument that there is plenty of demand. I if I said demand, I meant if I'm messing up the words demand and supply, I meant to say there is plenty of demand, there's not enough supply, and as a result of there not being enough supply, then how are they going to fulfill the demand? Right? If there's massive FSD demand, massive robotics demand, massive compute demand in regards to LLMs, there's going to need to be a way to fulfill it. And the fact that Elon's legit suggesting building your own chip just goes to show how serious he is about getting enough chips. And and and it also, I think, proves to me why Sam Alman is so serious to build these chips. And that's why he has these 1.4 trillion spending commitments with AMD, Oracle, Nvidia, Broadcom, because he knows that the person who has the most compute wins. Very bullish for semiconductor stocks. Um, but it kind of gave a little bit more legitimacy to everything that Sam Alman's been saying given Elon kind of reinforced it by literally saying we might have to build our own chip app. Now, Sam Alman yesterday, uh, we do not want government guarantees for open AI data centers. We believe that government should not pick winners or losers and that taxpayers should not bail out companies that make bad business decisions or otherwise lose in the market. If one company fails, other companies will do good work. What we do think might make sense is government building their own AI infrastructure, but then the upside of that should flow to governments as well. So you got Sam Alman trying to save the sort of PR disaster that has happened all week. And that's another reason why I think the markets were down because you know now people are saying wait a second the government has to get involved to backs stop all this stuff like that's not something that is uh necessarily appropriate and you had the markets kind of I think freaked out by him saying that having said that I think he's completely wrong and he's lying and the reason for that is because here is an openi document that was submitted one week ago and take a look at the part that's highlighted this is from openai's website right here if we scroll down AI server production and AI data centers broadening Coverage of the AMIC will cover the effective cost of capital. D-risk early investment and unlock private capital to help alleviate bottlenecks and accelerate the AI build in the US. Counter the PRC by d-risking US manufacturing expansion to provide manufacturers with the certainty and capital they need to scale production quickly. The federal government should also deploy grants, cost sharing agreements, loans or loan guarantees to expand the industrialbased capacity and resilience. This is from OpenAI's website. So I mean obviously OpenAI is not uh afraid of asking the government for loans. They just said it in such a horrible way and then they realized the backlash that they got. David Sachs yesterday, the AISAR tweeted that the government will absolutely not backs stop any federal loans when it comes to building out AI data centers. And uh you know that also kind of made the argument that Samman had to kind of save by by publicly saying that's not what they're saying. But that is exactly what they're saying. They they they want they again I I really do think OpenAI wants to make sure that they are too big to fail and by wrapping in the biggest companies in the world by wrapping in the biggest economy in the world like the US federal government it really makes it hard for them to fail because if they fail everybody fails and so from that perspective I think OpenAI is going to keep trying to do what they have to do and we are all sitting and observing and whatever company you're investing in AI probably has some derivative impact from OpenAI as they continue to work. Speaking of opening eye, Sam Alman also got subpoenaed yesterday on stage, which was kind of crazy. But this is the clip of uh someone rushing on stage to subpoena him
>> conference many years ago that you probably go ahead. Can you take off stage? Wow, getting off to a dramatic start already.
>> Um, welcome conference.
>> There you go. He got served on stage. But it is quite wild. It is quite wild over the past week what we've seen in a variety of things from OpenAI, whether it's new deals, whether it's this government backs stop loan PR thing that they got into. The most important thing he said yesterday is actually that they're guiding for 20 billion of annualized revenue for 2025. So it's well above that 13 billion that they were saying and hundreds of billions by 2030. Again, if they're going to actually do a couple hundred billion by 2030, the 1.4 trillion spending commitment over the next eight years doesn't seem that crazy. The question is, can they actually grow to that level? And if they can, it's very bullish Nvidia uh because they're going to need a lot of chips to do that. very bullish AMD, very bullish Broadcom, Oracle, like all those names that got this massive level of market cap increase because of partnering with OpenAI if OpenAI can actually grow to hundreds of billions by 2030. Super bullish for all those names. And you know, we likely see momentum across the entire semiconductor ecosystem. The biggest question is can they do that? But given that Tesla wants to build their own chip fab, you can obviously sense the reason Sam Alman is making all these commitments is because he knows compute is the bottleneck. Power is also the bottleneck obviously to make this happen. Uh but if he does make this happen, you know, then we probably see some more momentum when it comes to AI. Uh government shutdown. Let's get an update right here on the flights that have been shut down in major US airports. Here's the American Airlines CEO speaking on what's going on based on this government shutdown.
>> Nine flights to eight flights or DFW to Corpus Christi from seven flights to six flights. It's that kind of stuff right now. Now, this level of cancellation is going to grow over time and you know that's something that is is going to be problematic
>> and we'll talk about that in a bit. But I want to ask about these flights that were cancelled today. That might be maybe 10,000 people who have to redo their their travel schedules. Any issues rebooking them because there's not a lot of slack in the system.
>> There's not a lot of slack in the system, but right now our customers are going to be fine. We're making sure that they know well in advance of getting to the airport if their travel plans have been disrupted. And it's a very small portion of the total 650,000 customers that we have in a given day. We're going to make sure that our customers are taken care of no matter what. And then Phil, I just want to say safety is the priority. So I give I commend all of our air traffic controllers, TSA agents at the end of the day and administrator Bedford's doing the right thing by trying to get in front of this problem.
>> But how worried are you? Look, we've got good weather around the country right now. God forbid we have a bad storm roll through the Southeast or the Northeast or anywhere. How how frustrating will it be to try to handle that and the cancellations that go with that?
>> Let's get the government back open. That's the the first key. We don't need to have this problem right now, but we're going to make sure that safety is priority and we will handle storms and other things. But you're right, as this problem grows and as cancellations grows, there's not a lot of slack in the system and managing the airline, managing the industry becomes exponentially harder as you increase the level of cancellations.
>> Talk about that because this is not simply you're not doing this flight from here to there.
>> Aircraft have to be parked, crews have to be rerouted. Is that the biggest challenge at this point separate from the passengers?
>> It's it's an incredibly complex environment that we deal in. And so whether it's planes that need to be maintained, our pilots that have to maintain currency, you know, our crews, right, when you cancel a flight today, right, they don't just simply pick up where they left off. They have to be totally uh rearranged. So all of this is is it just creates complexity that makes it harder and harder. And our customers shouldn't be dealing with this. We're here in our integrated operations center. We shouldn't be dealing with, you know, all the complexity and the the the rework that's going on. You know, this is something where we've got to get the government back open.
>> We are 20 days from Thanksgiving, right?
>> A lot of people have already made their plans, but they're also going to make them beyond Thanksgiving for the holidays. Are you starting to notice an impact on bookings? Of course, there's an impact. Nobody wants to put up with hassle. And again, we're doing everything we can to make sure our customers know that as we get into the busiest travel, you know, part of the the year, this is something that we just can't let happen. And Phil on that I'm confident that you know everybody in the government understands how important aviation is to the overall economy. You know one in every 11 jobs is somehow related to travel and tourism hospitality. We can't bring you know a bigger wider group into this you know situation that we find ourselves in today. And just to reiterate this point at the beginning it's 3% of the flights for the system overall today 4% to the top 40 markets but it goes up from here. How tricky does that become to manage as it goes up close to 10% cancellations? And if we're there by the end of next week, what kind of stress does that put on the industry overall?
>> Well, we're not cancelling any service to any smaller markets. Uh we're not, you know, we're making sure that there's presence that's maintained. Today, I mentioned that, you know, we can handle this 4% by reducing frequencies, but next it becomes a lot harder. you're going to be really digging into, you know, some some, you know, more heavily traveled areas. And on that, as you get to 10%, let's face it, it's 10%'s a big number.
>> It is really ugly for these airlines, especially if the government does not get this stuff opened up pretty soon. You know, Robin Hood invited Tanner, myself, and Roy to the um investor call in San Francisco. So they they invited us a month ago. Um and we all talked about it. We were like, should we fly out? Should we actually go there? And then we were just like, no, you know, it's it's a long flight from, you know, for me it would be six hours just to ask a question. Like it would have been really cool to be there again because I was at the one in New York. It was a long flight to that for six hours just just for the question to come back. And now I think about it, I'm like, "Thank goodness we said no." Because it's like, dude, having to fly over the past couple days across the country with everything that's going on, it's just it's just psychologically it's scary, right? That like you're getting on a flight for six hours and you just don't like most likely nothing's going to go wrong, but just knowing that there could be some type of issue because of air traffic control, it's not uh, you know, it's not the it's not the funnest thing to think about. And so I could only imagine people that are traveling for vacation or to see family. I have a cousin that's coming from California soon to New Jersey. Like it it's one of those things where there is a little bit more fear going on especially if these flights start to get more can start to get cancelled in a more egregious way. And as you can see right now the American Airlines CEO said right now it's like flights from um you know Boston to New York right things that are like 40 50 minutes like in interest in in the tri-state area. It's not something that's like from LA to New York or or anything like that or like London to Dubai. But that is going to eventually start heating up as more and more people don't end up working. And the fact that he said one in out of 11 one out of every 11 jobs is affected directly or indirectly in some way through travel. I mean, yeah, travel is a big part of the economy and so you definitely have the airline stocks getting some red. Ultimately, we're going to see if that can continue or if that bleeding ends up stopping towards the rest of the day. I ran right here down 3%. Bit mine down about 1%. Bitcoin just above 100,000. Ethereum slightly below 3,300 as well. Uh let's talk about some of the earnings that we had yesterday. So, a bunch of these momentum names had earnings. Open was one of the names that had earnings. Open door right there down 16%. Openoro introduced a direct offering via dividends. Uh and the dividends are tied to warrants. I don't know exactly what this means. I'm trying to read and understand it. Um, essentially it's a warrant dividend similar to the one GameStop did a while ago. And they're doing one warrant, one warrant per 30 shares. The multiple strikes for them at 913 and 17 depending on the series. And they're both forms of potential future dilution. They're not dilutive at the moment because they can be redistributed. But because no shares are issued, uh, they can be diluted in the future. It seems bullish because Open Door gets to raise capital. open door right here down 16% and shareholders get a warrant to exercise to be able to get more exposure to the underlying but I don't fully understand exactly what it is but it is one of the more I guess you could call creative ways that they engaged in uh in raising capital yesterday nonetheless they missed on EPS by 71% and as a result you know when you miss that badly things can get pretty ugly now um the thing that was kind of crazy yesterday is that Open Door did have their uh call in in in video which was nice to see. I really like that companies are starting to embrace this stuff and um you had a video call where even Vlad called in from Robin Hood. So take a look at this video. I just saw this this morning. Uh Robin Hood CEO asked a question to Open Door.
>> What's up Cass? By the way, we're super pumped that you guys are streaming live to retail on Robin Hood. I think the question on everyone's mind is what's going on with tokenization? How real is it? And how do you think it could revolutionize the home ownership experience?
>> Thanks, Vlad. Thanks for hosting us. Um, look, I'm such a big fan of Robin Hood and I hope that we can continue to do things together. Our mission at Open Door is to tilt the world towards homeowners and those working hard to become homeowners. And I love that Robin Hood does some of the same things. You know, this whole thing of taking power away from fancy people and giving to average person. Uh now to answer your question, um look, I have a habit of of not announcing products before they're launched. That's because I build products, not spreadsheets. And I think it's important that we ship things before we talk about them. And I don't want to say we're going to do this next week, but I genuinely can't imagine a future where real estate's not tokenized. And I also can't imagine a future where Open Door isn't leading innovation in uh real estate. Look, now look, I don't know if uh if if that means Robin and Open going to collaborate in any meaningful way. Uh, but it does seem kind of interesting that the open door CEO, which I I am starting to like a lot more just in terms of his ability to communicate. The business model itself, I'm not a fan of. I, you know, there were some red flags on the call. I had a lot of people that after they analyzed and they were just like every time he got asked the question about buying homes low and then selling high, he ended up talking about software and coding. And, you know, he started waxing poetic about the the nature of how we ship products. It's like, bro, you have to buy homes low, sell them high, and keep a spread in the middle. Like, and there was no real answer on how they're going to do that in any meaningful way to increase the profit. Which is why I think the business model fundamentally is just not a good business. Like, there's a lot of other businesses I would buy over that that are just easier to understand and don't have that type of risk. Nonetheless, if they bring a tokenization component into it, maybe there's a way to kind of pivot the business. But, I don't know. And I think the reason the stock's down 17% right here is because the street's like, "Dude, like all that stuff you talked about yesterday, none of it's real yet. And maybe that's a future vision, but at its core, you guys aren't making any money on these homes." And so, we're going to have to see longterm how that plays out. Maybe there's some Robin Hood partnership. If there is a Robin Hood partnership, I think it would be better for Robin Hood because they just get access to more supply if Open Door allows them to tokenize all their homes. I don't know exactly how Open Door really benefits from all that because they're not like a payments provider. They're not a brokerage. So they they make money off the selling of the home and the spread in between. And again, they buy the home themselves, so they have to sell it for a bit higher. So I don't know exactly how it would work out, but nonetheless, it was nice to see the call yesterday. Open door right there down about 16%. Robin Hood as well down about 2%. US AR not the best earnings. They were down 6%. A lot of these rare earth stocks getting hit. Archer down 13%. Archer made zero dollars of revenue. The street expected 400,000. They made zero. Um, so I'm sure a lot of you guys are making more money per week than Archer is making per quarter, but nonetheless, Archer right here down 13%. Again, Archer, it's one of those names that you have to believe in the potential of Archer if you're buying into it. And right now, stocks with a lot of potential are not really getting that much love. Absela, I was talking to Arie about this today. A lot of potential. The reason they're down 10% is because they're not really executing at the highest of levels because it takes time for their platform to find drug discovery that can meaningfully work. So a lot of those momentum driven names that got a bid like an Oaklo as well down 6%. They are getting hit on a day when Nvidia as well is getting hit by 2%. And that's what you've got going on. Uh the Fed to host an urgent meeting at 3 p.m. today. Is that actually happening? The Fed to host an urgent meeting. The Fed might already have their meeting ready to go. There is a bunch of Fed talk that's been happening. Uh Trump is going to be having a lunch with the prime minister of Hungary. at 11:45. Uh, and then he's going back to Mara Lago at 3:30 today. So, not a crazy schedule for Trump this morning. Uh, I don't think the Fed is going to do any emergency rate cuts. I do see, yes, Fed is going to be speaking at 3 PM today, but I don't think that's some massive meeting to say we're going to cut rates. I mean, the market's not that bad yet for for them to get a crazy rate cut. Uh Trump Media did report earnings. That is correct. DJT, uh DJT right here is down 1.73%. On Trump Media earnings, we have a net loss of 54.8 million. They have 3.1 billion in assets, 28.7 in total income from Bitcoin linked option premiums and interest. Positive spa litigation resolution could be boost future results. This stock has a market cap of 4 billion and they lost $54 million. It doesn't really look like they have any revenue. If anything, it's about a couple million dollars. So that's what you got for DJT. Mint. Would you sell Nvidia at these levels? Absolutely not. So like when it comes down to selling, we were talking about this last night. I mean, again, you have to ask yourself, is there something that has fundamentally broken in the broader thesis for why you're long any of these names to get into the idea of selling? And I don't know, look, I know it's really annoying seeing all the pain that we're seeing, all the blood that we're seeing. It is important to remind ourselves that we are up since October. October, we were at 640. Right now, we're at 667. So, I know it's not at 690 or 7,000, but um getting to 7,000 that easily, you know, was never going to be that easy. There's always going to be some ups and downs to get there, but uh fundamentally not many things have broken in regards to the thesis for a lot of the names that I think most of us are in. Now, if you're in super super high momentum names uh which Robinet is high momentum, it's not as high momentum as Oaklow, but nonetheless, those are going to experience draw downs because they trade at a beta to the market even after they put up phenomenal earnings. If the entire market's going down, does that mean you sell Robin Hood here? I I I don't think so. Like I I also don't don't think that means you go and rush to buy the dip. You know, if your average on Robin Hood is 50, do you really sell at 125 right here or do you kind of just hold on even if it goes back down to 110? But do you buy at 124? Maybe not because maybe it's not easily going back to 150. So I think it's a market where you just kind of hold your horses and lay back and see how this thing plays out versus get super excited to buy the dip. We've seen this week that the market has not rewarded buying a dip. Throughout the year, the market has rewarded buying the dip immediately, like almost instantaneously within, forget a day, a couple hours, if you buy the dip, you're rewarded. That has not happened this week. And if that continues over the next couple weeks, which I'm not saying it has to, it's just a question of like no one knows, right? Then obviously buying the dip would not be the best strategy right here. you might just want to sit back and you know given so much of so many of us have bought the dip for the past year it begs the question of how much more of a dip do you need to buy unless you really really want to build up a position in a name that you haven't had a chance to build up on and the price gets attractive enough for you to finally get it if not towards the end of the year if you haven't bought the dip for nine months or 11 months at this point like that that just means you're underallocated and I'm sure most of us have put money into the markets and we're still up for the year a decent chunk even though uh there's been a draw down over the past couple of So I think that is the broader question to ask yourself if you think it's you know making sense to buy dip. What do you think about Meta? We talked about Meta yesterday. Again I would rather give myself a quarter to see what Zux is doing with all the spend. I do think Meta is cheap. I think in 5 years if you buy Met at 612 you are not going to be upset about that. It's just a question of hey can we get this thing into the 550s 570s for it to get really attractive versus at 612. And I would just like to know more about what Zux is trying to do with all this capex spend before fully jumping in. But it would not surprise me if Meta reverses here. The question is if we're having a macro draw down, it's going to be a little tough for an AI name with a bad narrative on it right now to reverse. Now, their narrative is not as bad as Dolingo. Duolingo right here down another 3%. But still pretty ugly. Yes, I saw the Grab news. Uh I wouldn't think too much of it, guys. There's been rumors for years about Grab and Goto merging. um like it would be really cool for them to merge. I think it would fundamentally change the trajectory for Grab's growth prospects, but again like it's just a rumor at the end of the day. Now, it is a rumor from a president official, so there is a little bit more legitimacy to the quote that Reuters reported this morning. But until, you know, we get any actual real news, not sure if the market's going to react to that. However, I did say yesterday there was a darkpool order for 43 million shares at 564. um is not yesterday, two days ago at around 5:00 PM. Maybe that 43 million share order was because someone knew that there was going to be uh a broader discussion around grab and go to, but you got grabbed slightly up in the pre-markets right now. Um Hoove, thanks for the super chat. I'm just waiting for Triple V to say that he's bought the dip 500. He I don't think Triple V owns Apploven. Um, I don't even know if he bought the dip, quite frankly. I haven't asked him if he's bought the dip or anything. But, you know, TripleV for for for as much as dip buying as he loves to do, he is also very conservative. Like I he was at the Robin Hood Summit with me in Vegas and we were talking and um he sold some some covered calls on Hood at 125 and uh at that moment Hood was just busting through 125 and he sold them for January 2026 and I was like, "What are you thinking?" it was just like they could go higher, but like I don't think they deserve to be above 125. And so he's a very, you know, he he he learned about covered calls last year and and and he has sort of a value investor component to him, even though, you know, when when he buys the dip, he's very degenerate sometimes with buying the dip. But also, you know, the reason he sold those cover calls at 125, which hood is, you know, barely at 125 right here, is because he's like, I valuation wise, I don't think these guys deserve to be at 150. And so I think from that perspective, you know, even he who obviously has a big position and would love for the stock to keep going higher is also picking and choosing some of these strikes by saying there's not a real uh case to say outside of momentum that these stocks deserve to be at these levels. Remember he show shorted open to our $10 as well. He got it at eight. If he had held it, he would have made a lot more. But he got it at eight bucks. He does have a lot of value investing components to him even though he does like some of the the growth stock names. S&P 500 right there down about43% as well. Wow. Apploven has a rule of 40 of 144. Dude, that's more than pounder and more than uh Robinet. Apploven is the one that we don't talk about too much, but that is pretty incredible. Look, they had a great earnings. They have that SEC probe that's out there and I think that's a little bit of overhang on the stock but stock right there at 613 down about 1.2% in the pre-markets. Uh Palanteer. So look, one thing that I saw yesterday, shout out to Jack who posted this was Michael Bur's 13F. We talked a little bit about this yesterday, but Michael Bur posted his 13F uh two weeks early before he actually has to legally post it. And over the past decade, he's never posted it as early as he's posted it. uh which was on pounder earnings. I think when you put two and two together, it makes sense why he posted it so early. He was obviously underwater on the pounder and video puts by a large margin and he wanted to give a signal to the market by letting people know that he is putting on a billion dollar short on these companies. And as a result, that is why that is why sorry I got to get to do not disturb. That is why um I think he disclosed it early. So I think the reason for him disclosing it early was for him to kind of send a signal to the market that hey it is time to uh let people know that I'm short these names and I think in a sense he essentially disclosed early to try to get some exit liquidity because again he was down so bad on these positions both Nvidia and Palier now I don't know if he's profiting but Palier's below 175 if he shorted at any price above that he is up. Odds are he might not have given if he did the put at any time in the summer, July, August, September, it was below that level. So he was losing as pounder was going up to like 210 at one point. But if he did it above that, now he is starting to get some type of profit. So I think that the sort of core reason for why he disclosed early was to try to set a signal to the market and let people obsess about the headlines of Michael Bur being short. Granted, here's the question, right? If you're gonna go short a name or buy puts on a name, are you gonna do it just to make a couple million dollars on a billion dollar put? Probably not. You're looking for you're looking for like a like a real draw down, right? Like like in 2008, he had the whole thing collapsed before he even thought of taking a profit. And he could have profited many times before the whole thing collapsed. If you watch the movie, the whole thing had to really hit the fan for him to finally say, "All right, I should take some some profit off the table." Um, is he waiting for Palanteer to go down to like 30 bucks or something? I don't know. But it is interesting because he was completely underwater for the past couple months. Finally, potentially he might be above water. And the question becomes, all right, do you just get out of it and say, "All right, well, at least I escaped that without too many scars." Or are you like, "No, this is the moment I've been waiting for." Same thing with Citron. We're going to wait till this thing really comes down. And I'm not sure. And I think it really does depend on the broader macro as well. Like I I don't think pounder easily goes down by itself unless the macro goes goes down. That's the one thing about whatever stock you're into right now, whatever main position you have, you can't really blame the stock itself. You can blame the whole market. Maybe there's some different things around the stock that's helping it to go down, but the entire market's down. And so until the market gets a little bit of a bottom and tends to recover, we're not going to know if the individual stock that you're holding is down because it's down or it's down because the macro is down. And right now, you know, you can chalk up a lot of this stuff to the broader macro. So, that's what we got going on. All right, 20 seconds until the market opens. Thank you everybody for being here. Uh, 68% of you said red on the green or red poll today. I know it's been an ugly week, but you got to go through some of these weeks in order to celebrate the good weeks. I think most of us are still up a decent chunk for the year. So, these are the moments where you also have to uh exercise a little bit of gratitude for the year that we've had. And today, the number one thing I want to see is can we stop the bleeding? And we are going to find out as the market opens. Friday, November 7th, 9:30 a.m. Thank everybody for being here. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. Meta down another half a percent. Open Door down 13. Apple down half a percent. Apploven down 1.7. Paler was green for just a second. Look at that candle 175 17530. Palenteer going green. Oscillating between 17450 and 175. But that is slightly green. Grab is green again. There's a rumor that Grab is going to be buying out their largest competitor in Indonesia. That is probably what's keeping it green right now, but Grab right there up 2.3%. Iron that's down 4%. Robin down 1.9. S&P 500 down half a percent. Tesla down 2%. Archer down 12%. Abselera down 15%. Goodness. Abselera getting hit. DraftKings down four. Uh, Take Two down five. MP Materials down one. ELF down two. Oaklo down five. Lily down one. Getting a little bit of a bounce from the pre-market. Like Oaklo was at 100. Now it's at 101. So, it's still down, but it's not down as much as it was in the pre-market. Cipher down four. Rocket Lab down two. Rocket Lab below 50. It's been a while since we've seen below 50 on Rocket Lab, but there you go. We are indeed below 50 right there. 4858 right now on Rocket Lab. UNH 317. UNH was at 390 last week after earnings. That one's getting hit. SoFi 2665. That's down 2%. Toast down 1.46%. Where is Nvidia? Nvidia pounder going green 17564 right there. Holding on to some of that momentum up from 171 in the pre-markets. Nvidia is 184. Nvidia is going down. Pounder is going up. That is weird. That is very weird. But Nvidia right there 185 down 1.5. Meta 614 Duolingo 193 Open Door actually getting a green candle from 477 to 570. So you got people coming in and buying the day. BMR below 37 that's down 1%. Iran again good earnings that's down 5% though. S&P 500 still down half a percent. Robin Hood 12434. The pain on Robin Hood continuing to cause some pain and that one goes down 2%. Norwegian Cruise Lines that's up 2%. Getting a little bit of green right there. Sound hound, they had earnings yesterday. Sound is up about 7. Slightly green. I believe they beat on the top and the bottom. So Sound earnings, not too bad. SanDisk had a great earnings. They were up 7% yesterday. They are up 3% today. Uh so some of these names that had good earnings are kind of holding higher. A firm had a phenomenal earnings. A firm is Yeah, a firm is up 8%. They deserve to be up 8%. Uh now Square had a disgusting earnings. Square is down 12%. It's just the fundamental difference between some of these companies, but Square is down 12 and a firm is up eight as that one goes green. The only thing on IN that I saw like look I's earnings were good. 3.4 billion of AI cloud revenue guide for uh 2026. The only issue is and Neil pointed this out is that the only reason they were profitable is because of gains on some investment they made of 665 million. outside of that they would have not made any money. Um I don't know if that's the biggest deal in the world to be honest because of how fast they're growing but that is I guess the one thing that some people are pointing to. Nonetheless that stock down 6% again it had a massive run did touch 80 yesterday. So this one taking a breather along with a bunch of other names. Palter now goes red. So it was at 175 now at 17440. DJT down three. Grab just lost all of its gains. Was holding a little bit of momentum. Got to 579 now back down to 558. Uh Apple, which was green yesterday, now down 1%. Apple back below 270. S&P we are down. We are down. Down about 0.59%. On the S&P. BCATs is bad week to give up drinking. Exact. It was a bad week to give up drinking. It was also a bad week to tell your boss to go f themselves. And I know a lot of you guys did that. I know a lot of you guys did. You know, it's just it was just a bad week to do either or cuz now you now you got to you know, it's like can't tell the boss to go f themselves when you kind of need the job. That's you that's the thing. That's what Matt said last night. So Matt Money ended up doing that and uh you know he had to he had to make it a little apology. Wow. Robin Hood, they're taking her down 3%. Goodness. 12250. Dude, they are getting rid of the one. It's almost like they want to take it below 120 right here. And again, see this just like we all saw that quarter like take take me out of it. I mean, I think everyone objectively saw that quarter, saw those beats, saw the amount of momentum they have going into Q4. I mean, October alone was better than the entire Q3. And the stock is down 15% after earn it. Like it it it's hard to make sense of that outside of a flush out. And I think we're getting a pretty ugly flush out right here. Archer, we are down 10%. Amit, this is the perfect setup for the Santa Claus rally. Yes, that is also a good point. Uh Chris made that point last night that a Santa Claus rally is much easier when you're not at all-time highs. So, yeah, I think that's a fair point. It's just one of those things that we have to get through uh in the midst of trying to get that Santa Claus rally. Bitcoin below 100K. Bitcoin below 100K. Wow. Oaklo below 100. Oaklo officially below 100o. There you go. 9876. Again, look, well, here's the thing. I don't like seeing people lose money on any stock. I I do think that some of these names have very high multiples, and at the end of the day, it is healthy for some of those multiples to get flushed out. Having said that, obviously, Oaklo is going to get its multiples flushed way harder than a lot of other stocks because Oaklo doesn't have any revenue. It doesn't have any earnings, right? So, it's going to get hit a bit more. And you're kind of seeing that take place right here. S&P 500 down about 6%. Nvidia down 2.3. Nvidia, they took her below 185. pounder. They took her below 174. Open Door down 15. Again, Open Door, I have a lot of respect for the new CEO. I don't know why Openoro ever got to $8. If you look at their numbers, it doesn't make a lot of sense. So, I can understand after they missed CPS by 71% why the stock is down 15%. But it's still up more than 5x even after this was it 40% draw down from the highs. Quantum, how's Quantum doing? QBTS down 4%, Regetti down 5%, NQ down 9%. Wow. The Quantum names as well taking a pretty big beating. But it's not just Quantum and it's not just Oaklo. Those are getting hit a little bit worse, but it's everything. It's just those are taking on the chin a little harder given the the momentum that they had this year. Abselerad down 20%. Okay, that one just getting wrecked. Robin Hood down 5% 121. And then Tesla, dude, Tesla was at 455 yesterday. 425 on Tesla. Complete bloodbath. Complete complete bloodbath. Yes, that is correct. S&P is at the 50-day moving average right now. 665. Very close to losing another 1% right here. Grab below 550. There you go. There you go. Everything today is getting it. So the question now become irran below 60 down 10%. The question is where do we see a bottom if we do get a bottom and I think we got to look very carefully over the next 10 minutes to see I mean is the bottom falling out or do we get any little bit of a bounce? Nvidia 18295 is the intraday low. Duolingo's green. I mean, some of these stocks that got hit so bad over the past week makes sense that they're green. Well, Duelingo just turned red, but at least it's a little bit not as red as before. I mean, it was down 30% yesterday, right? So, gain some recovery. Oh, Nvidia just went down below its intraday 180 287. Zero is the bottom. That's true. Zero is the bottom. That is true. Stocks can go to zero, right? They can all go to zero. Rocket Lab 4652. Dude, imagine imagine we have such a flush out that the entire year's gains are wiped out. I don't think that happens. That would be a bit aggressive, but that would be quite ironic if that were to be the case. That that would mean S&P has to go back to basically 600. S&P back to 600 would basically get rid of most of the year's gains on a lot of these individual stocks. I don't think that would be the case. I think at around 650 there's a couple levels of support. Not to mention psychologically that's basically where we were at the end of October or at the at the middle of October. That's where we bounced at 647. So if you're looking for a level, I feel like 650 would hopefully be where we bounce. But again, I think the reason why people are so annoyed about this because no one knows why this is happening. Pound here 171. Very close to losing 170. And uh you can point to the labor market, you can point to the shutdown, but you can't point to a Trump China tweet like we did in October, which was why it was so easy to buy the dip because it was like, "All right, like this is going to be reversed in a couple days." And it literally was, and if you bought the dip, you were rewarded. This time we're seeing a little bit of a weirder mentality for why these stocks are going down. A firm's up 8%, Sounds up 1.2%, Norwegian's up 3.5, and then pounder still down 2%. Let me see if we had any earnings today in the morning. Um I think we had a few companies reporting um no just constellation constellation brands they missed by 3% or constellation energy is that CEG that's CEG right yeah CEG this is an important company in the energy space they had a $20 billion deal with Meta uh 339 they're down 3% they missed on uh EPS 304 versus 312 they beat on revenue 6.5 versus 6.55 EPS up 11% revenue up slightly year-over-year Kevin Hasset, impact of shutdown on economy far worse than expected. Travel and leisure industries are being heavily hit. Q4 GDP growth will be lower due to shutdown. Dude, I just realized that the shutdown like I I'm literally as I'm reading this, I'm just realizing the shutdown's probably having a massive impact on GDP because the government is the biggest spender out of the entire country, right? When you put all the companies together, the government spends more than all those companies. So yeah, of course we're going to have a Q4 GDP slowdown. You know, some people are projecting 4%. It's going to be hard to imagine with the government shutdown for 40 days and potentially even longer that we get anywhere near that 4% number on uh on GDP. Bitcoin 998 continues to go down. continues to go down when people realize what the G in GDP is. Yeah, it's not gross. It's government. It's freaking government. DraftKings, they had that deal with ESPN on earnings. They were down 7%. This one's getting a little bit of recovery. It's up 1.1. Google's dumping. We haven't even looked at Google and Amazon. Google 279. That's down two. And then Amazon, let's see if we're losing 240 on Amazon. Amazon. Yep. 23960. See, the thing about Google is most people had a shot to buy this thing at 140, 150, 170 throughout the majority of the year. So, again, if you're heavily in Google, you just you can be annoyed it's not at 290 after that quarter, but you can't be upset, right? Because you're probably up a lot if you just kept com buying all year. Um, but nonetheless, you know, it is getting flushed out with a lot of other these names. But, you know, it's not like Oaklo that's losing 50% of its stock in the last month. It's down 5% from earnings. So, some of these big tech cap names have been able to hold on. Amazon obviously hasn't moved too much this year anyway, but it is giving up some of those gains after a great earnings that they put up. And then the AWS deal with OpenAI, that stock down 1.4%. Amcor, is it holding on to 34? Nope. 3375. So, so this is the thing about Amcore, right? It went from 33 to 37 on an upgrade and now it's down with the rest of the market as the market falls. So, a lot of these names theoretically should reverse pretty easily. If you find a bottom, you get a little bit of a V and things are moving in the other direction. But the question is when does that happen? And this week we have seen no evidence. Thought we had a little bit of it yesterday. Intraday at around 1 p.m. maybe we're making a reversal, but then that just went away. And right now it's not looking exactly like the market wants to make that move, but it would not surprise me if we make that move because now at this point a lot of these names are down 15 to 20%. From their highs, Meta 608. Really? Goodness, dude. 608 on Meta. It's ugly. It is definitely ugly looking at a bunch of these different names. S&P. Now you're getting a little bit of a bounce. S&P 664 to 66573. Got to see if that bounce can hold. Admit if you take AI out of the equation, the economy is [__] There's no growth. I agree with you. If you take AI out of the equation, you're not seeing growth at all. Forget, you know, now I think for the next coming years. Like there's no growth curve for the economy outside of AI. AI is the foundational reason. whether it's margins, whether it's capex, all of that that's kept the economy going, which is why it kind of needs to work. You know, this is something I've been saying for the past couple months now, like if you're bullish America right now and you're b and you have money in the stock market, you've got to believe this AI thing is real. And if you don't think it's real, then then none of this makes any sense. None of these valuations make sense. None of the growth makes any sense. I think there's more than enough evidence to say it's real, which is why that's not too concerning, but it is the de facto reason for why the economy is as strong as it is. Um, financials have a lot of growth. Yeah, but remember the reason financials are growing so well is because of M&A, IPOs, and capital spending due to AI. I mean, a lot of the financials like the Bank of America, the JP Morgans, they've been getting a ton of deals due to data center financing. like you need this sort of macro tailwind that gets the banks excited to give out loans and spend and all this stuff and like there has to be some type of thing happening in the economy, the global economy to get these banks to be as excited as they are to finance all the deals that they're financing. And I think a lot of those deals in some way either indirectly or directly are rooted in AI and you know that's why I think the banks have put up some pretty good earnings as well. Tesla right there 428 getting a little bit of a bounce from 424. Nebius. Where's Nebius? It is 103. Nebius back down 5%. Cororeweave. How about Cororeweave? Cororeweave is 101. Wow. Neb and Cororeweave twinning with each other. Yeah. I mean, look, when it comes down to buying these names, you have to ask yourself, how much conviction do you have in these names? And is it worth taking a chance on these names based on your level of conviction? That that is my simple philosophy when it comes to buying on these massive massive red days. If we had a simple reason for why we were red, I think you could kind of buy anything and just not look at it and you could probably get what we've seen over the past pretty much entire year, which is things reverse and you get rewarded for buying the dip. I don't know if this is exactly that same scenario right now. It's just there's just not enough data to say that's the case. like the Trump China tweet. It was obvious that this is negotiate. I mean, it was so obvious. It was leverage negotiation. You know, Trump was trying to bait X G into like it was it was very and that's why a lot of us bought the dip and it was pretty simple and you know, you didn't lose too much sleep. Here you've got a lot of different macro components including the shutdown that make it a little tougher to say that these prices are amazing dip by prices. Fear and greed is uh extreme fear. We are in extreme fear. And that's why you're seeing some of the pain right now. Why is the government shut down? The government is shut down because of a lack of communication and essentially agreement in the two political parties in the United States, Democrats and Republicans, on how much they want to spend, particularly around healthcare subsidies. And that is the prevailing issue for why we have not reopened the government right now. Jensen's tweet started this. Well, Jensen saying that China is going to beat the United States in AI. That definitely didn't help over the past couple days. Oh, by the way, I forgot to talk about this morning, but uh Trump administration basically said yesterday Jensen and AMD are not selling anything to China. Forget Blackwell. They're not selling anything. So, the US is set to announce a ban on sales of Nvidia scaled down AI chips to China. This also explains why Jensen kind of front ran those comments by saying that China is going to win the AI race. But multiple reports last night said that the US is going to be banning any sale of meaningful chips, H100s, H20s, etc. to China, which also affects AMD. And that's probably why Nvidia and AMD uniquely are getting a decent chunk of pain today. But that's obviously affecting the entire market as well. AMD 229 loses 230 down 3.4%. Nvidia doesn't need China. Remember the numbers Jensen was showing at GTC? I agree Nvidia doesn't need those China numbers, but I think Jensen also knows in the back of his head he can't just depend on domestic demand to keep the party going. Otherwise, why would he say that, right? Jensen has, you know, Jensen is let's just let's just call a spade a spade. Jensen has been kissing Trump's ass for the entire year. So why would he public like he knows when he says something publicly he definitely knows when you look back to what happened with the quantum stocks back in March. He knows when he says something publicly it has an impact. Why would he say something that undermines uh American technology? He wants to send a signal to the big guy. And why does he want to send a signal? Well, the reason he might want to send a signal is because he knows that uh he needs China to keep his business afloat. Maybe not now, but eventually. And I think the market's also a little bit, you know, scared of that as well after Jensen said what he said about China. But we got to see we got to see if we can get any level of reversal based on what we got going on right now. I mean, you got a little bit little bit of green S&P 664 bounce. Uh Quantum getting a bounce right there. Dwave from 2679 to 2770. Palanteer little bounce from 170 to 172. It's just yesterday we had this same bounce almost five times and I thought on the fifth time at around 1 pm it was like a legit bounce and then by 1:45 it was like nope that's not a real bounce. So that is the uh the part to just be a little cautious of today is like are these bounces going to have any momentum to sustain and it's a Friday with a lot of options expiring which makes it a bit tougher. Meta right there. 607 bouncing from 606. Nebius 102 and then Coreweave 50 cents away from going below 100. VIX up 8%. All right, that is correct. VIX. Yeah, 20.9 on the VIX back to 20s. So, you do have that volatility spiking up as well. BMR obviously wrecked over the past month down more than 40%. Again, as I've been saying, I have my full position. Question is, do I want to keep allocating to that position? And given the amount I have, the answer is no. And not only because I have a full position, but number two is like I I don't know when Ethereum reverses and I'd rather buy B&R at like 40 or 42 instead of 36 having confirmation that Ethereum has made a reversal. Until then, I feel like it it could be a falling knife territory, right? It's been a falling knife for the past week, not just BMR, pretty much every stock. And so, until I think you get that conf like bit, like anything cryptorelated, Coinbase, Micro Strategy, BMR, Robin Hood, Bitcoin and Ethereum play a big role in those stocks and you can't deny that. So, Bitcoin and Ethereum both are stuck and like literally holding on for dear life at 3,000 and 100,000. I don't know if those stocks even on the dip make a lot of sense until you get a meaningful reversal. By the way, Bitmine's uh MNAV is below one now. Couple reports I saw last night from some people that calculated said it's below it's like 0.97. You have some other people saying it's like 1.1, but I'm pretty sure it's below NAV because Ethereum is down this week, but it's not down as much as Bitmine. I feel like Bitmine is traded at a alpha much lower than Ethereum and that to me is MNAV contraction. We don't know because they don't disclose the shares outstanding, which is what they need to do, but I'm pretty sure it's below NAV right now. Roblox slightly green. Roblox is up uh yeah, 105. Now, Roblox did get hit over the past week. Where's Elf? Elf is still 75. So that's still down 30%. Honest is up 6%. After getting hit yesterday and then Dolingo as well, 194. MNAB is 0.93. Okay, this is definitely below one. Seems like it's below one. Chime is up 9%. Okay, Tanner should be happy about this one. You got Chime getting some green. Uh but everything else looks like it's relatively red. Let's get an update on Tesla and the shareholder vote. Again, Elon did get official confirmation. If he gets the stock to eight and a half trillion, he will get a trillion dollars of compensation package. I'll see if we can get any macro data, but let's get a little bit coverage on Tesla and then we'll keep going from there.
>> 75% really jumped out at to me. And what I read into that is this is a clear mandate from investors, not just retail, which has been the traditional strength of Elon with his investor base, but this is a mandate from the institutional investors to go for it. And I think you um I mean this the vote my expectation is it was going to pass, but it was going to be close 55 60% in favor, but that 75% plus really jumped out at me. And then it begs the question, why does that matter? And the answer is that when you have a stock that's treated at 150 times earnings and has a market cap that far out exceeds obviously the auto industry which is no longer its comp is you need to have investors on board for the long haul because any sort of nearterm troubles could uh cause the stock to have some big dips. And so as a Tesla shareholder you have a little bit of a safety net. Not to say that the stock won't be down on days like today and on a bad print. But this concept that the stock is going to fully retreat in the next months ahead, years ahead, if they don't achieve this, I think the probability of that went down. And I think that was probably the biggest takeaway for me. And then you've got all the stuff in the toy department around chips and uh production, but you know that that the the size of that win was really stuck out to me. But let's be honest. I mean, it's always had a a pretty durable shareholder base, right? I mean, yes, the stock has traded around here and there, and it's had steep pullbacks, but, you know, the shorts over a period of time over the last 10 years haven't been able to really really gain any traction because of the durability of the shareholder base and the willingness of investors to continue their big bet on whatever Musk really wants to do. So the reaction of the stock, you're absolutely right, would suggest that that was there. But when we went into this period around this vote, we had some of the agencies recommending against that vote. We of course heard from the sovereign fund of Norway that they were voting against it. And there was, I think, an open-ended question. Uh this was not a layup that this would get passed. And so I think I agree that there has been that dynamic but you can rest assured now that it does have appro uh this support and I think again that 75% number is uh I think speaks to you know we can kind of quantify like what is the support level right now it is high and again there's one other piece to this there is this narrative around the Tesla story that this is a retail stock that this is a meme stock uh and that retail has been carrying despite all the you know the fact that institution is a big piece of this. So I I do think that we did learn something important in terms of that base and um it it gives Elon the opportunity to lead when he took the mic he starts talking about optimist this new book
>> and it was very you know exciting the journey that Elon was painting I think Gene is right on the 75% is not just retail that ended up voting for Elon so I mean you did have a lot of institutional support that was coming into the mix um and as a result Tesla was able to get that approved Tesla here 430 getting a little bit of a bounce as well. Uh fear and greed at 17 now. Wow. All right. So, we are deep in extreme fear, folks. We were at four during uh liberation day. We might be getting to the point where you could buy anything and get a reversal. Uh I don't know if it's exactly there yet. Obviously, when it was at under five during Liberation Day, it was more obvious, but nonetheless, look at that. Now at 16, it is potentially getting to that point. I did find one piece of macro data right here. Uh, used cars are down 2% month- overmonth in October. The biggest drop since April of 2024. So, used cars are coming down. We're seeing a lot of different issues in the auto sector and delinquencies going a bit higher. So, you're seeing that used car index start to show a little bit more of a retracement and contraction, which makes sense if you have some defaults in the auto sector. But that going down potentially could be good for anyone who's thinking of getting a used car. Nvidia right there getting a bounce off 182. Nebas bounce off 101. Meta bounce off 606. Google little bit of a bounce off 277. And then Bitcoin from 99.7 to 100.7. Nice thousand candle right there on Bitcoin. And that one starting to go a bit more green. Open reversing. Are we seeing open reverse 615? Ah, open. That's not a bad reversal, dude. It's at 570. Now it's 615. At 570, now it's 615. Nvidia down two. Sound is up. SanDisk is up. Affirm is up. Norwegian's up. Hunter as well. 173. This is the question for today. The real question robin at 124 is can we get a bounce and have any level of sustaining that bounce throughout the day. We had this happen yesterday multiple times and it just wasn't able to hold on. We don't got to end green today. But if we can not be as red as the absolute lows, S&P is at what point 6660 52. Okay. So, you know, a move to 668 by the end of the day, I feel like still would be pretty bullish, even though that would still be down for the day. Dwave just went green. There you go. So, you got some quantum names actually going green. That that is showing me a little bit more strength in the reversal. If you've got the high momentum names, BitMine's not green yet, but it's 35 cents away from going green. If those names start to catch a bid, we might have a reversal. Micron 242, that's alltime highs. Micron's just been a beast over the past couple months, which has also been very good. Uh, again, it's either a pump fake and a bull trap or the dip in the morning was a bear trap. I think we're going to find out over the coming hours. Hamcore right there, a little bit of bounce from 33, 34, 37. DraftKings 2878. Rocket Lab 4749. Uh, you got Irene still down six. That's bouncing up as well. Absela was down 20. Now it's down 17. Not as bad as it was before, but still down. Did we get Consumer Report today? Do we get that? Michigan consumer is not from the government, I think. So, I think we do get that. Um, yeah, I think we will. That should be at 10:00 a.m. Uh, Canada unemployment rate is out 6.9% down from 7.1. That's not bad. Getting a little bit of detraction there. Um, their average or their four-year high was 7.1 in the previous month. Now it's at 6.9. So, you're seeing Canada's unemployment come in a little bit better than expected, which is good. uh consumer report for Michigan. If it comes out in the next two minutes, I will get those results. I do believe it should be out 10:00 a.m. Today's what? Today is Friday. Yeah. Okay, I think we got it. Um 50.3 versus 53.6. 50.3 versus 53.6. That is a miss. Oh, wow. You got a red candle as soon as that came comes out. That is Yeah. Wow. Look at that. Open door red candle. Dwave just went green to red. Bit mine. It was 30 cents away from going green. Now it's like a dollar away from going green. Goodness, bro. The Consumer Report matters that much. All right, let's pull it up. Let's pull it up. 50.0 would be the weakest since well the all-time low which was 50 and 50 came in at June of 22. That is the low. If you go back to the 70s that's still the low. So very close. 52.3 on current conditions. Another huge miss. 52.3. Well, you're now going back to once again I don't have a number this low and I go back to the late 70s. 52.3 that follows 58.6 expectations 49.0 that would be the weakest since well that one actually is on my charts 47.9 would be the comp that would be May of 25 so not that long ago and finally let's look at the inflation indications one-year inflation moved from 4.6 to 4.7 that would be the warmest since August when it was 4.8 8 September's number equals that at 4.7. And finally, 5 to 10 year. Here's maybe the only good news in this report. That's down from 3.9. We're expecting 3.8. 3.6 would be the lightest inflation rate going back to August when it was 3.5. Uh not a lot of movement in the market. That surprises me a bit. You know, these numbers have been really soft from University of Michigan and the inflation numbers have been rather on the high side. It seems as though many investors aren't paying as close of attention as they used to, but it really is one of the few numbers we're receiving. If you look at the interest rate complex today, right now you have a 2-year 355. It closed last week at 358. You have 10 at 409. They closed yesterday and last Friday at the same yield of 4.08. So basically, we're up one basis point. Carl, back to you. All right, Rick. Okay. So, again, there's like a couple hundred people they survey in this report, but it was at some of the lowest levels in months. That completely wrecked. And this is what I was saying, right? Any little bit of a bounce, you got to see if it actually has the ability to hold. I didn't think consumer confidence would wreck it that bad, but Nvidia was pushing 185 back to 182. pounder is pushing 174 back to 171. This is why it's a little tough to buy the dip right here. If if you're if at least if you're short-term trading, right? If you're buying the dip for the next five years, it's whatever. But if you're short-term trading it, trying to get a bit of a good entry, you got a lot of different headlines that could just stop some of that momentum on an overall red day. S&P 665, Meta, wow, 604. They want her below 600, folks. I think they want her below 600. It feels like they want her low. Feels like they do. JP Morgan discloses 343 million of Bitcoin ETF holdings. We did have Jamie Diamond the other day start saying that stable coins are something that cannot be ignored. Uh, so you do have the big guys embracing the broader ecosystem around Bitcoin and crypto in general, but you know, those headlines are not enough to get the assets to make a bit of a move. Bitcoin, man, 100.5 this year. You know, I saw a stat yesterday which is kind of crazy. Um, based on Bitcoin's price action, a 10-year Treasury has done better than Bitcoin this year. which is kind of crazy, bro. That's kind of wild. But it's just not been the best year for Bitcoin. Micro Strategy, by the way, 228. I don't know. You know, there's a lot of different conflicting narratives around uh what is it? Sailor getting liquidated from my like some people say Micro has to get to like $75 or Bitcoin has to get to 75,000 for him to get liquidated. Other people, including Sailor, will tell you that Bitcoin could go to zero and they wouldn't get liquidated. And every time he explains it, there's like some complex financial engineering that he does to to to say why. I don't know if there is a liquidation price, but obviously it's not the best for Bitcoin to keep going down. Uh Apple is a big green. All right, so you're getting Apple gets some love right here at 270. Let's look at the heat map today. Heat map's got to be ugly. Ugly heat map. Well, you have a little bit of green in consumer defensives. Financials just a little bit. Tech though, that's what is really taking it on the chin. Netflix is up a little bit, but everything else is red. Healthcare, Eli Liy, even after the announcement yesterday is down. Proctor and Gamble's up. Coca-Cola's up. I mean, your core value stocks are getting some love. Monster Energy and Insurance is the only green. Progressive is green today. What about Birkshshire? Is Bergkshire getting any green? Yeah, Birkshar is green. Berkshire owns a lot of insurance. 498 on Birkshshire. Yes, I spoke about the go-to grab rumors. Again, they're just rumors. It would be very nice if the acquisition actually happens, but until it does happen, you know, we just can't fully make an assumption on it. I have thought for the past couple months it would make sense for them to buy it. But, you know, we didn't get any updates, so I kind of stopped thinking about it. But today, Indonesian president official says they're thinking about it. Maybe that brings more life. And also, again, it it answers the elephant in the room, which is why do they have seven billion cash? Like, what are they going to do with all that cash? Obviously using that cash to buy out your biggest competitor would make sense, but the lack of clarity on that cash is also what makes me think there's a chance that could happen. Nvidia right there 18190 18190 for Nvidia. Uh guys, the Fed is not cutting rates today. Whatever urgent meeting at 3 p.m. rumors you're seeing are not real. Um the Fed is speaking today. There is going to be some Fed speak. You're going to have some Fed officials talking, but there's no 3M emergency meeting. So, also, the Fed's not going to save us here. Look, Nvidia went from 205 to 181. The Fed is not stepping in to save anything. They don't care that much about Nvidia going down 20 bucks, which by the way, I was saying this last night, but I really didn't understand why Nvidia went to 212 after GTC. Like, I understood what Jensen said. I was obviously excited about it because I have a large Nvidia position, but it added 500 billion in market cap in three days. Like at its core, that felt a bit aggressive and unreasonable. And so it is coming back to reality. Even at 182, it is well above a $4 trillion market cap. So I don't think that's crazy. It sucks because you know, if you have a lot of Nvidia, you're down 2030 bucks a share. That's annoying. But then again, did it really deserve to go to 212 off of Jensen speaking at GTC? It was fun, but like I don't know if it deserved to add that much market cap for no reason. However, I agree. Nvidia is too big to fail now. Eventually, I think they'll get back there. It just might take some more time. Apploving. Wow. Loses 620 587. That's down five and a half%. For everyone saying yes, it did. Why? Please explain to me why. Why is Nvidia deserves to get 500 billion in three days? We're talking about half a trillion in market cap. I would love to know why people think that just deserve to happen because I'm an Nvidia bull, you know, like I I love Nvidia and I believe in it, but even I mean even I think even Tanner will tell you like we were both looking at it like, "Okay, this is cool, but really like why why is that going higher?" like it didn't make a lot of sense. Even even Steve, dude, and Steve loves a video, but he was just like, "Dude, this is this is a lot." And that's when things get euphoric. And when things feel euphoric on the most important company on the planet, that's not good. That means you've got a little bit too much momentum coming into the markets. Like even numerically, how can anyone define it numerically? Like Nvidia still has to grow into a lot of its prosp. And if you say, "Oh, well, Jensen said 500 billion." Like, sure, that's fine, but that hasn't happened yet. like that. Yes, that increases the analyst estimates, but that doesn't mean those earnings have actually happened. And until they actually happen, you can't just say we're going to we're going to frontload 500 billion worth of market cap gains because of the eventual earnings growth that we see. It's like, yes, every stock trades at a price of earnings where you frontload some of the earnings gains, but to frontload half a trillion worth of value of those earnings gains, like I don't know, it felt like a lot. Now, I didn't sell any Nvidia at that range because I want to hold it for long term, but I also didn't think it made sense holding 21220 at that point. Matt Money says, "I bought more Rocket Lab." All right, you got Matt Money buying the dip here on the lab of rockets. 4718. 4718. Um, Rock Lab right here down about 5%. Where is AS470? Okay, so AS is actually holding up pretty nicely. I know it's down from like 75 the other day, but the fact that it's not below 60 I think is pretty reasonable and it's trying to hold it at these levels. CleanSpark, the Bitcoin miners, CleanSpark down 8%, that was at 20, now it's at 14. Cipher from 25 to 20. And then I ran from 70 to 61. Again, I do not think any of this red should make people turn net bearish. That should not be the takeaway from any of this. Is it annoying? Yes. But I don't think you get bearish here because like as many bare cases as there are, I don't think any of them stand a chance to defeat the earnings growth that we've seen from the most important companies in the world. And so when Pallinger puts up the types of earnings they're putting up, when Hood puts up these types of earnings, when Google, Amazon, Microsoft put up these types of earnings. Even Meta, even with their tax charge, I don't think you get long-term bearish on that. You let the market consolidate these prices, but you don't get net bearish. Like I wouldn't be net short this market at these levels. It's just some of these stocks traded at high multiples. Those multiples are coming down and compressing. And that's okay. I mean AMD went from 150 to 250 because of an open eye deal. That's really the only reason if we're being real. I mean there's not that much more to it. Open air is now 230 from 150. Okay. Like that's that's that it's not like opening it's not like AMD's back to 150 in September. Like it's not back to the prices where it was before that deal was announced. It's 20 bucks off its highs. I don't think that's the the craziest thing in the world. PayPal. Where is PayPal? Is PayPal getting any green here? No, PayPal is not Salesforce and PayPal kind of the value names. Not really. Well, pay Salesforce is trying to go a little green. It was down 6% yesterday. Not staying up. Matt Money says, "I'm walking down the streets of the UK listening to AK Media. One name change to AK worldwide. Dude, I got to get to London. I got to see London one day. I have to be there one day. Definitely want to to get the meet up in London set up. That'll be fun. I think Matt said he's going to meet Tess in London, so that's awesome. we're going to be able to. It's always cool when you know friends I mean he's he's met Tess a bunch of times in Texas and Miami, but it's always cool when YouTube friends can actually meet in person in real life. BMR right there 3708. That is red as well. Um all right, let's get a little bit more coverage from this. Let's listen to some people on kind of what's going on. Oh, you got city CEO. Okay. City CEO on CNBC. There is a lot of hype in tech at the moment. That's her quote. Let's go to her and see what she's saying right here. You have Karp who's going to be on CNBC. I don't know when, but he's at some conference. I don't know exactly when he's going to be on, but he's going to be on later as well today along with Brad Gersonner later today. M that is out there. It's very dynamic at the moment.
>> When you say some of it is exuberant, what are what are you referencing?
>> Well, well, let's look at what's real because when you when you look at the moment, the economics because that's what we all care about. The economics is definitely favoring the scaled player um and those that can invest at pace. Um but it is very dynamic. I don't think at the end of the day anyone is going to say that we underinvested in power and in capacity and compute. Um but there will be winners and there will be losers. And so how do how do we get at at that? I think part of the challenge Sarah is you are measuring advantages at the moment in weeks not even in months and years. Uh and we're seeing AI transforming all industries and all businesses. It's not just an industry as of itself or in of itself. Um so it's very dynamic. Uh we have clients here from defense, we have clients from sports, we have clients here from technology obviously and media. Um so there is hype but there's also um a lot of build and and real economic impact.
>> What about the debt that that is sort of fueling this investment and expansion both in the private market and in the public market? Do you do you get concerned about that? Oh, there's a there's quite a lot in that question. So, um I'm I'm not concerned about the capacity that is being built. I think it will get used. But what we do look at when we're looking at the private asset space in particular, um credit quality is credit quality. Um whether it's in the public market or the private market, it is no different. um you don't worry about the investments and the credit decisions that a Blackstone or Apollo or Aries is making. Where I think we do worry more is the credit decisions that some of the smaller players will be making that don't have the same standards and are moving that credit into mid-tier insurance companies. Now for City uh 80% of our uh our institutional exposure is investment grade globally. So, I'm not worried for us, but it's one of the areas that we are keeping an eye on to make sure that the FOMO and some of the exuberance isn't turning into bad credit decision.
>> In other words, you agree with Jamie, there are more cockroaches in credit.
>> There are a few around. Yes. Um,
>> you know, the the debt financing of these data centers, that is another question that I think a lot of people have been a bit concerned about. Meta right here getting a bounce at 610. Um when she says there's a few cockroaches, the question becomes what are those cockroaches in the context of the data center space? Like meta and Google's corporate bonds are obviously not uh I would say that scary you know these companies can afford to pay the interest on their debt. Are there other forms of private credit that are a little bit scary? And again in regional banks, we haven't really seen it. Although we had a little bit of fear for a couple of days with Zions and Western Alliance, but outside of that, some of these other CEOs are saying there's other cracks, and we've not easily seen how those cracks have been playing out. Bitcoin back above 101, Weeble down about 1.7%. But I don't think you would call Google or Metabonds as cockroaches. Pro the problem is they're tapping the debt markets and that's the that's the part that's making people upset which is that you're finally seeing capex financed through debt versus just free cash flow even if it's not the majority of the capex being financed through that subprime auto has always been an issue that is correct I mean that is the one thing that I think objectively we can say is an issue and maybe that's what they're speaking about when they say that there's issues in the credit market which is subprime auto kind of seeing it with the used car prices start to go down finally. You know, if people can't afford to pay back their loans, you might have a lot of these dealerships just saying, "All right, we need to lower these prices as well." S&P getting a little bit of a bounce right here, but overall, I think the broader capex picture is still strong. It's just a question of how much of it is going to be financed via debt. Apple right there, 271, that's also green. Open door. Open door is a pretty impressive. I mean, from $480 to 620 is not bad. Tesla as well. It was at 423, now it's at 434. Dualingo is trying to push 200. Politico says there's a plan to end the shutdown. Okay. Well, they've been saying that for a while. Um, Majority Leader John Thun has a plan to end the shutdown that seemingly does not involve extending the Affordable Care Act. Today, Thun plans to bring up the House passed continuing resolution that Democrats have repeatedly rejected and then seek to amend it with a new expiration date likely in January, as well as a package for a three-year spending bill. Thun and the GOP are undoubtedly hoping that the added spending bills will ramp up the pressure and convince enough Democrats to join the Republicans and end the shutdown. Huh. Okay, so that's basically kicking the can down the road, but at least it would get the government open. That seems to be what Politico is reporting with majority leader John Thun. Yeah. So down another shutdown later. Exactly. But dude, at least it would open it for now and maybe give them enough time to negotiate while the government's open. Like the worst part about this is that they can't ne like every time you get close to a government shutdown a couple weeks before you would think they should start negotiation so that they avoid the shutdown and then during the shutdown they're not negotiating either because it's shut down and then it ends up dragging itself. So it's just becomes nonsense but at least this would get the government open and get people paid which is important. Let's just have rolling annual shutdowns. Yeah, I mean that's essentially what it's turning into. Is there a time on that political meeting? Uh, based on this report, it looks like they're saying in the evening. So, we're talking about 1:00 p.m. 2 p.m. is what they're saying right here. I mean, it could be happening right now. Politico is reporting that later in the day, that is when Majority Leader John Thun will go to Congress. It wouldn't surprise me if this is closer towards the end of the night. I mean, that's when they tend to vote on a lot of these continuing resolutions. So, if it does happen today, then the shutdown is over, at least for now. But, we're going to have to watch on it later throughout the entire day. Yeah, 2 p.m. Eastern. Voting at 2 p.m. Eastern. Exactly. Or at least the introduction of it at 2 p.m. Eastern and then voting might be a little bit later. Corey 102, Nebius at 105, Amcore 34, and then Amazon at 240. Where is Microsoft below 500 496 VIX? Are we still up at 20? We are at 21 on the VIX. So, that continues to go a bit higher. Let's hear from JP Morgan and see what they're saying about what's going on right now and get some other perspectives here.
>> I mean, we were just talking about how uh the stock market at record highs is not getting reflected in overall sentiment. No,
>> absolutely. I mean, we've got we've got submarine sentiment. Uh we've got a sort of a tortoise-like economy and we've got this uh you know sparkles and champagne stock market. I mean admittedly it's down this week but uh the stock market has been having a very good year but you know we have I think this government shutdown is affecting sentiment. It's affecting consumers. It's affecting businesses and you know people are scared of the dark and we are in the dark on a lack of economic data. Uh and so I think people are assuming somewhat the worst here and and the economy I mean there's no the economy is not in recession right now but it is slowing down. Um and the longer this shutdown goes on the worse the damage
>> right I mean as far as labor goes the most constructive stuff I heard this week were NFIB intentions for hiring not terrible ISM employment not terrible ADP not terrible it kind of fed this notion that yeah labor's um degrading a bit but it's gradual. You agree? I I agree with that in terms of you know say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say the unemployment rate but what's going on in the backdrop here is uh we're seeing a decline in the number of available workers we've seen a fall in labor force participation we've seen a huge turnaround immigration and if you look at that national federation of independent business survey there one of the biggest thing that that jumped out at me at that from that was uh businesses cannot find the quality of workers they need they're having a very hard time finding workers at all but they really can't find the workers with the skills they need to do the job. So, it's it's a a low demand, low supply labor market, and it's indicative of an economy that's just, you know, the batter is just running down here.
>> Do you believe um that the that June marked the bottom of the labor market?
>> No, I think I think the I think the labor market is is getting softer. I think you know one of the things that a lot of these surveys look at the private sector and of course we know that about 150,000 federal workers took the buyout and will be leaving the labor market will be leaving government employment officially between the end of September and the end of December. A lot of those would have shown up in the report that was supposed to come out today. Uh but the government sector employment is falling and then I think there's a lot of knock-on effect from government cutbacks affecting the economy. So part of the economy is very strong. spending by upper income individuals is fine because of the stock market and the AI boom is really a boom, but the rest of the economy is pretty soft and getting softer,
>> right?
>> S&P now down uh to the lowest level since October 22nd. Getting a small bounce right here, but haven't seen these levels since the end of October. 1.8 trillion this week is gone from the markets. So about two trillion erased when you do the numbers. Definitely an ugly week across the board. S&P 500 again down 1.8 trillion for the week in terms of market cap overall. 66597 is on the day. Now what he was saying right there about the labor market continues to be the biggest fear that I think is priced in which again signals that I don't think there's any chance in hell we don't get the rate cut in December. But the the scariest situation is we get a rate cut, but it doesn't matter because labor market is so bad that it hurts earnings. And again, that's possible. We haven't seen any evidence of that outside of the consumerf facing stocks, the Chipotles and the Cabbas, etc. Like, we haven't really seen it affect big tech yet. And eventually, it will affect big tech. I mean, if people aren't spending, then advertisers are not going to be giving Meta a ton of money. So like it hasn't had that type of impact yet, but it is having an impact. And the question now is in Q4, you know, with the does the earnings picture at all match up to what we saw in Q3, Q2? Um, we got a drone headline. US Army to acquire anywhere from 500,000 drones to millions of drones annually in years that follow. Okay, so all the drone stocks, are they catching a bid? A little bit. Redcat got some green. UAC got some green. And got some green. We had Jeff Thompson on a couple weeks ago, you know, and he told us that it's very real what Pete Hexad is trying to do in regards to buying more drones. So, that obviously could happen as well. Uh the Q's are down five today. Yeah, the Q's are getting hit worse than everything else given how leveraged they are to tech. Why is Oscar green? That's a good question. They had a great earnings. I don't know why they're actually going green right here. Maybe if the shutdown ends, you have a bit of capitulation on the healthcare subsidies at least for the for the time being. But Oscar right there at 17, will you cover the vote today? I don't know when they're going to vote. I don't even know if they're going to vote on this shutdown package. Again, Political is reporting that it's going to happen, but we have no confirmation of that. So, I don't know when it'll happen. When it does, definitely on Twitter, I'll be, you know, if I'm not live, I'll put out the vote if it officially does happen. But, there are multiple senators this week that said the shutdown should end by the end of this week. So, I mean, it does make sense that Politico's reporting this like special plan that Thoon has. And at this point, you know, if it's just delaying it and not just giving the Democrats or Republicans either side a victory, you would imagine they get enough votes to at least reopen the government for now and then deal with this later. Wall Street Journal reports the Democrats will continue to block the shutdown. Look, if that happens, I don't know. I don't I don't even know what like the public opinion on the shutdown is right now because there's plenty of people that are blaming the Democrats obviously, right? And then there's plenty of people that are saying it's the Republicans's fault. And if you look at the elections that we had two days ago, Democrats sweeped everything. So you might have I mean I I I really don't know where where if it's 50/50 6040 but Democrats sweeping everything in the face of a shutdown definitely is not the best look for the Republicans. Then again, you know, you have a lot of people that might be saying that this is the Democrats obsession with health care and uh illegal immigrants and that's why we're not getting it open. So you just don't know where public perception is standing at the moment. the government continues to be shut down. Um Chris was showing us some charts last night when we were with Steve on this idea of affordability. And this is, I think, going to be a very important thing for uh the midterms. As you know, every time Trump says grocery prices are down, gas prices are down, you have a lot of push back by Democrats and Republicans saying that's not the case. Even Mike Johnson, he was asked about it yesterday, he had to admit that there is still inflation within grocery prices. themselves.
>> Yeah. But the USDA has reported and all of the um the economists have shown food prices always go up. There's an inflationary uh level that's built into grocery prices, but they're going up at a much slower pace. In other words, the the economic policies, even though all the provisions of the working families tax cut have not yet u been implemented, that's going to make a dramatic effect. It's going to be like jet fuel to the economy. We have all these progrowth policies that will bring down cost, increase wages, incre increase uh jobs and and um and more access to the
>> That's the question, right? Can we actually get those prices to meaningfully come down? Here's an update on the shutdown. Right now, it does look like Senate is preparing for another vote.
>> Partially funding, fully funding the government for the next fiscal year. That would include only a couple departments, but things like agriculture, SNAP, veterans, that could all be taken care of for the rest of the fiscal year. Then, of course, you're also hearing about that potential promised vote that Thun has talked about on those Affordable Care Act tax credits. And lastly, we did learn yesterday that there are discussions now about ensuring that some of those federal employees who would have otherwise been fired during the shutdown, making sure that they are able to keep their jobs once the government reopens. However, lawmakers who I talked to still that all of these things are still being negotiated and discussed. It's not even clear if there is going to be a vote today. And that's in part because Thun wants to make sure he has the support of Senate Democrats. But Democrats, they seemed a little more unified after they met yesterday. And Senator Chris Murphy was telling us that after their high of the big election win on Tuesday, they really feel like they can dig in a little bit more, continue to make demands on healthcare, and continue to try and see if there is some way to keep some of those tax credits low. But at this point, we're not even clear if there is a vote today, if they'll be in this weekend. A lot of discussions happening, but many things are still up in the air, Carl. Uh indeed, including whether or not uh SNAP will get fully funded, some court decisions yesterday, and some responses as well. Uh we'll watch it closely, Emily. Thank you, Emily Wilkins. Let's get a CNBC news update this morning as well with Bertha Kums. Hey, Bertha.
>> Hi, Carl.
>> Okay, so they're not sure if there's going to be a vote yet, which is kind of what we've been saying. I mean, hopefully there is a vote given the reporting, but if there is not, well, the shutdown continues at that point. Folks, everything's still red. Meta tried to make a move to 609, back to 606. S&P tried to make a move to 667, right back to 665. Irre broke out to 63, back to 60. Um, Salesforce tried to hit 241, right back to 239. I mean, just not getting enough of a bounce here to think there's a move ahead. Bitmine actually holding 37. It was at 3650. So that one holding at Ethereum as well making a little bit of a move higher at 33 3,300. What do you think the market reaction if the vote passes? I think the market likes it. I don't know if we shoot up, but I think if the vote passes and the shutdown ends, I mean, maybe this is a easy sort of reversal that happens if the whole reason for this is because of the shutdown. Again, I I think there's a lot more of this AI stuff with Sam Alman and Jensen, all these comments this week. I think that's what's freaking out the market a little bit more than the shutdown. Shutdown's definitely a big role, but I feel like it was just a disaster for Jensen and Sam Alman this week with the comments they said and really got the market questioning some of the fundamental stories around AI, which is good because you need to, you know, constantly recheck the thesis and none of the earnings pictures showed us that the thesis should be doubted. But I do think the market is thinking of that deeply and that's the issue. Um, Deutsche Bank says they're shorting AI stocks. Are they actually shorting AI stocks or are they hedging against their AI longs? Because I'm pretty sure they're long a lot of this stuff. Deutsche Bank AI. Let's see. That consumer confidence report also wasn't the best either. Um, Deutsche Bank is exploring ways to hedge its exposure to data centers per Bloomberg. It's looking at options including shorting a basket of AI related stocks and buying default protection via synthetic risk transfers. Okay, so yeah, I mean technically yes, they are looking to short, but the short is more of a hedge because a lot of these banks have a ton of exposure to these data center socks. Yeah. I mean, I don't think that screams that they're scared. I think that's more so them saying, "Hey, we have a lot of exposure, so we obviously need to hedge." I do have a video right here about Jensen. Let me pull this up. Uh where he's clarifying some of his comments about China. Let's pull this up right here.
>> China will win the air rest. So it seem the west is not disagree about this. So what do you think about
>> that's not what I said. Um what I said was that China has very good AI technology.
>> They have many uh AI researchers. In fact 50% of the world's AI researchers are in China and they develop very good AI technology. In fact the most popular AI models in the world today are open- source models are from China and so they're moving very very fast. United States has to continue to move incredibly fast and otherwise otherwise uh the world is very competitive. So we have to
>> Jensen's obviously trying to save face there. I mean, as soon as he said China's ahead of the US, people got scared. And he's trying to clarify. And look, the clarification makes sense. But at its core, you got people now starting to think because look, implicitly the assumption is if Jensen is sending this warning signal that China is ahead of the US, he's trying to say that Nvidia should be able to sell to China. And so the market's thinking, well, why is he so desperate to sell to China? Is it because he doesn't have enough demand to sustain the valuation if you can't access the Chinese market? based on what he said at GTC, without China, they're still doing great. But obviously the tone of his voice when it comes to these public statements might say something that's different. And so that's why I think the market's a little a little bit more concerned right here. Uh guys, so I haven't played this for you guys at all, but I want to I want to play this for you because we do have some uh audio from the Supreme Court case. So let's listen to a little bit of this because you do have a lot of people that after listening to the arguments are potentially thinking the Supreme Court is leaning towards ruling against the tariffs which obviously would institute a lot of different issues that we have to deal with. retation of the statute, as she pointed out, would allow the president to shut down all trade with every other country in the world or to impose some significant quota on imports from every other country in the world, but would not allow a 1% tariff. And that leaves uh in the government's words in this brief an odd donut hole in the statute. Why would a rational Congress say, "Yeah, we're going to give the president the power to shut down trade." I mean, think about the effects, but you're admitting that power is in there,
>> but but can't do a 1% tariff. that doesn't seem, but I want to get your answer to have a lot of common sense behind it.
>> I I think it absolutely does because it's a fundamentally different power. It's it's not a donut hole. It's a it's a different kind of pastry.
>> And on that on that power, uh that's a good one. Uh on that power though, and you've said this many times and Mr. CATL 2 and I and look I get this obviously but the court has repeatedly said a tariff on foreign imports is an exercise of the commerce power not of the taxation power and I'm repeating some but John Marshall said that and Joseph Story and Chief Justice Hughes in the 1933 case and we've said that quite a bit of time which seems to at least undermine a bit your point that it's an entirely different power because if it is foreign commerce power, it's the same power that Justice Barrett was talking about of just embargoing trade with the entire world, which you admit is in this statute.
>> Well, there are a couple of points in there and and I'll try to get to all of them, but I mean, I think all of us agree that context is what matters here
>> and that you certainly could use the word regulate to to talk about a tariffing power like you could use it to talk about a taxing power. Uh I mean we impose taxes for regulatory purposes as well but the uh the the federal government hasn't identified a single other federal statute that uses the term regulate to authorize tariffs or taxes. That is just a different kind of power.
>> And I thought your point in response to Justice Kavanaaugh it's a different kind of power because the power that's being authorized by this statute is the power to control or freeze trade. That's exactly
>> that's what Congress was getting at. And so if that's true, then we have to reeregulate in that context.
>> That's exactly right. And I think the reason getting back to common sense as to why uh a legislature might authorize that is that you might not fear abuse of that power in the same way that you would be concerned about abuse of a power to impose unlimited taxes with no with with sort of no controlling.
>> Well, why is that? Because I mean there is a
>> All right. So, as you can even hear from that, I don't know if Trump's going to win the Supreme Court case. You got a lot of different back and forth. Um, there there's a lot more to that video, but there's a couple of moments over the past week. S&P now potentially losing 665 where there the the the Supreme Court justices are really questioning the constitutionality of what's going on here. And uh even even uh Ben Shapiro yesterday, he was he was saying that he thinks there's no way that Trump wins this case. And his argument for why Trump doesn't win this case is that there is just going to be a very hard uh constitutionally justified argument if you're just sort of using the the letter of the law and and you know you're you're not using the spirit but the text of the constitution to make the argument for why the president has the unilateral p power to do what what he's doing. And you know, Shapiro's been pretty consistent on this since April. He felt that the tariffs were illegal and unconstitutional. And now he's thinking that the Supreme Court's going to strike it down. You do have conservative justices on the Supreme Court that tend to vote in Trump's favor most of the time. Maybe that implicates how they're thinking of like what would happen if the tariffs were reversed, the trillions of dollars that would have to be repaid. Again, we've collected so far about 200 billion in revenues. And then you have all the deals that were created as a result of tariffs as negotiating tools. If if we can't actually tell Europe we're going to tariff them 55% which is what got Europe to buy $750 billion of gas from us, does Europe need to buy that gas anymore? You know, it's like could definitely be one of those black swan events towards the end of the year that we really have to pay attention to in terms of how this decision plays out. But Trump's argument is that there's plenty of different ways they can implement the tariffs without uh or you know complying with they can comply with the Supreme Court's decision while still using other loopholes. You know, the question is how the barker would react to that. we can still do trade deals without tariffs. Yeah, but remember the reason Trump got a lot of these people to listen to him is because of the threat of tariffs, right? Like I don't think Europe agrees to buy 750 billion of gas from us. I don't think Japan agrees to buy or invest 550 billion into the United States unless there's this overhang of like, hey, if you don't do this, then this is the penalty. Now granted, we could still probably negotiate some deals. It's just like then, you know, we spend a year negotiating these deals. If we can't use the tariffs anymore, they're gonna have to be renegotiated. And to what extent are they renegotiated? And how much deal capture do we even get to get from the deals if uh if the tariffs go away? Now, maybe some of these countries in good faith would just keep the deals how they are even without the tariff threat because they don't want to ruin any relations. Maybe that's okay and that's how it plays out. But it's definitely something we have to think about. One argument also is that if you get rid of the tariffs, the markets go up. That is another argument that if you get rid of the tariffs, the markets go up because the markets never like the tariffs in the first place. The markets are dealing with the tariffs, but they never like the idea of them. And who knows, maybe that's a tailwind, even if it sucks for the Trump administration's policy agenda, where markets potentially can go up. S&P almost at low of days, 664. The low is 66397. So, we are close. Nvidia. Are we losing 180 on Nvidia? 181. That's low of day for Nvidia, folks. There you go. New low of days on some of the biggest stocks. Palanteer, are we at least holding 170? We are very closely holding 171. Fear and greed is at 17. Yeah, Nike. Other retailers will go up a lot probably if tariffs go away. Those are definitely some main beneficiaries. Yeah, we're getting some dumps. We're getting some dumps. Let's listen to Goldman Sachs. Let's get their perspective on everything that's playing out right now. This draw down worth October 10th. No, not yet. We need 3% down on the S&P to have a draw down worse than October 10th. We are down 1% right now. So, you need another 2% on the S&P for it to be as bad as it was October 10th. is very distorted by frontloading effects and changes in inventories and so forth. So I would even more than normally put weight on the labor market numbers as a measure of how the economy is doing at the moment. Current quarter GDP you have to be pretty careful with and of course that's all the more true right now.
>> Right. Uh, Challenger is another good example of a number that was an outlier for October, worst October in some 20 years. Aside from whatever people say about its own reliability and its noise, is it making you pull forward your expectation for any impact from technology on on labor?
>> It is at least tempting to you know build that build that in a little bit more. And I think the risks to our view which have always been significant impact from AI on growth you know very sizable impact and a meaningful impact on the labor market but pretty backloaded. I think the risks are that it is happening somewhat more quickly. Now I think most of what we're seeing at the moment is not directly related to AI. It's an extension of the, you know, sort of echo from the from the pandemic and the low hiring environment and and you know, maybe we're getting towards the the end of how much companies can do from a low hiring perspective.
>> Let me get to Kevin Hasset. He was on earlier. Let's just get his comments.
>> Giving Hungary an exemption on some of the sanctions on Russia.
>> I I haven't discussed the Hungary situation with the president. So, we've been working 100% on the economy and getting prices down for the American people.
>> Okay. And what about the economy right now? I was listening to some of your remarks just then on just how it's worse than anyone imagined. Can you
>> Yeah, it is that that it's actually because it's so long then the things that you can sort of
>> fix for a little while are starting to run into uh blocks. And so we're seeing that in air traffic control and permitting. Basically throughout the economy, there are disruptions because of the Democrat shutdown that are going to start to really bite the economy. I think that Wall Street firms are guessing that we're going to look at a one to one and a half% reduction in GDP growth this quarter, which means we're going to probably about cut it in half. Uh and uh I think that that estimate from CEA, it's about what CA is looking at now, too, given how long it's been. Is that right, Kim? Yeah. So, any other questions before I go back?
>> From your perspective, what have you heard about a possible deal on the shutdown? I know it's a congressional thing, but have you heard any chatter about a possible deal being closer right now?
>> I I Yeah, I can't say what's going on inside the room because I haven't been in there. So,
>> what is the feeling like inside?
>> All right, we don't know if we're going to get this deal today or if we're going to even get a vote, but nonetheless, you're seeing it. We got Bent as well. Let's see if the scent is going to be able to explain anything around this shutdown as well.
>> What message does this send?
>> Ed, the President Trump got into office January 20th, immediately issued an executive order on rare earth and here we are. It's November, and I have this to take back to the oval to President Trump. This is the first magnet made in the US I believe in 25 years. In 25 years. So rare earth magnet problem. We are on our way to solving the the Chinese choke hole that they have. Uh this fantastic facility here in Sumpter, South Carolina. They started it 18 months ago. The state of South Carolina, Governor McMaster was fantastic. They said it took them eight weeks to get permits. They couldn't believe how fast it was. And this this is President Trump's all hands on deck for this national security emergency.
>> So does this is this ending the reliance or this could this end the reliance on China for processing of rare earth minerals?
>> Uh no this is a creation of so this is what these rare earth magnets look like and in different
>> okay so nothing about the shutdown but rather rare earth magnets continuing to see hits. Oh, we had a new low on the S&P. 66350. It was 66397. We got a new low. We got a new low. Hims, are we below 40 on HIMS? Wow. Flush out across the board. Flush out across the board, folks. There you go. HIMS below 30. Q's potentially below 600. Microsoft 495. Irrene just below 60. Rock Labs still 47. Grab holding 550. Apple going green 271. SoFi. Are we at 25 on SoFi? 2644 on SoFi. It's one of those like, you know, it's one of those it's it's not as bad as October 10th, but because of the cumulative decline, Nvidia just lost 181 uh over the past couple days. It obviously is hurting as a more sort of prolonged draw down versus down in one day. We have seen worse. That is true. We have seen worse. Oscar is going green. At least Oscar's holding on potentially on this ACA deal. ASTS going a little green, Apple going little green, and then Birkshshire going a little green. Let's uh finish up with Goldman Sachs here as well.
>> And therefore, they they're having to rely somewhat more on on layoffs, but it at least raises some questions about whether technology has a bigger role.
>> Right.
>> So then looking at the 10-year, are should we be surprised that it's managed to hold four? Um what is the threat of inflation right now? Well, I think the inflation numbers is have generally been re relatively good. I mean, recognizing that we're seeing pass through from tariffs into inflation and that is that's occurring and that has somewhat further to go. I'm in a similar place as chair Powell who said 50 to 60 basis points of pass through so far and we're expecting another maybe 40 basis points or so from here that number has come down a little bit recently because of the US China trade agreement but that's a factor but it's a known factor and I think it's a factor that is probably more like a price level increase the non-tariff related news from the inflation numbers has been pretty encouraging and you know if you subtract 50 or 60 basis points from 2.8% or so on core PCE that gets you down to 2.2 2.3 and then there's probably some impact from distortions in the way they measure financial services inflation. They basically use stock prices to to some degree and then
>> you know it's it's always a little dangerous to say if you take out this and take out this then you get to some really good number but it does get you pretty close to two. So bottom line you know labor market news has been more concerning. The inflation news has been I think generally encouraging. So, I'm still comfortable with the idea that the Fed delivers a cut at the December meeting despite the, you know, very targeted injection of uncertainty that we saw in Chair Paul's press conference.
>> Yeah. And we'll talk maybe in future dates about Pal's influence uh going into these final months and certainly the potential.
>> So, you know, you got even Goldman Sachs saying, "Hey, we're probably going to still get this December cut. That's not slowing down at all." Um, but obviously a lot of that is influenced by the labor market. S&P 664, Paliner 171, Nvidia back to 181. So it looks like the balance is at 66350. And we'll see if any headlines take it down from that level. HIM's back above 40, but that seems to be at least where it's trying to bounce. Next week, what are the earnings that we have next week? We don't have any other earnings today. Next week we have not that much. We're pretty much done until Nvidia. We have Rocket Lab and ESTS next week. Those are big. Instacart, Disney, JD, uh, New Bank, and then Nvidia is when is Nvidia? November 19th, I believe. Yeah. So, we have Nvidia in about two weeks then. Until then, nothing else. Yes. AMD is next week. Nebius next week. But yeah, a lot of these earnings are not going to matter too much as the market's down. The most important earnings that needed to happen did indeed happening. Corves on Monday. Okay, so we had Iran. So then we have Cor and Nebius next week. AMD has an event next. It's like an investor day that they have 227 on AMD down 4%. We're right here. Circle as well. Okay, Nebius, are we below 100 yet? Nebas 105 LA. So ne again, it is not as bad as October because Nebus got to 94 in October. So it's held on, but we're going to have to see if it can continue to hold on to those levels. Open Door is actually making the best Vshape today. This is the best V I've seen all day. 477 to 640. It's down 2% which is not a lot for Open Door. So, anyone who bought that dip, you've seen some love, whereas a lot of other names are just red. Fartcoin is up 8%. Really? Yeah, Farcoin's up 8%, dude. That's uh that's the efficient market hypothesis happening right in front of us. As you can see right here, crypto has been ugly this whole week for the past seven days. Salana is down 18%. Binance down 12. Ethereum down 14. Bitcoin down eight. Dogecoin, which made a little run earlier in the year, that's down 10%. Those were hit. Drew says, "This is worse than October. October was controlled and obvious. This is way different." Yeah, I mean I I think that's a fair point. Like even if the actual numbers are not as bad as October, the quality of the draw down is worse because October was kind of just like a shake and bake. It's like you know what's going to happen and then you move forward with the whole Trump China stuff. This one is prolonged on a variety of different reasons. And so you kind of just got to hold your breath and wait to see if there's any change. I think the sort of fundamental thing that's important for everyone to remember is that the the two themes that matter for 2026 are monetary policy easing and then the AI trade. We know that whether it's now or in May rates are coming down like that's just inevitable. POW will be replaced. Someone will be in there and they're going to lower rates. That is going to happen. And I think the bond market knows that's going to happen as well. So that's the first thing. uh and when you have lower rates, you have a natural tendency to have money find more capital or more assets that deserve to take a little bit more of a risk. So that's the first thing. Then number two, this AI trade outside of the bad PR we've seen all week. Like what has stopped the AI argument uh for the markets to get up, you know, like Jensen can say stuff about China, Sam Alman can say the government needs to backs off loans, but the companies that matter that have to put up earnings in regards to AI. AMD, uh, Oracle, Google, Microsoft, Meta, Amazon, none of them put up earnings that would make Palunteer, none of them would make put up earnings that make you question the state of AI. You might question there multiple, but you're not questioning that this thing isn't real. And so I think if those two trades are in place then or those two trends are in place then 2026 should be okay. But obviously it's hard to predict 2026 because it's a whole year away of different stuff we have to see. Any thoughts on Schwab acquiring Forge Capital to extend access to private investments to accredited investors? I mean, if they're extending access to private investments to accredited investors, there's nothing revolutionary about that, right? Like, if Schwab is acquiring a company to make sure rich people can continue to invest in rich people assets, I don't know why anyone is excited about that. Like that's not that interesting to me. I mean, if they're trying to compete with Robin Adventures or any of these other companies that try to give retail access, like if you have to be accredited, it ruins the whole point. Most people are not accredited. But that's the whole argument. It's like why can't you invest in Stripe or Discord just because you don't, you know, have a million dollar net worth. So, it's good for Schwab, but I don't think it really does anything to to help the broader retail investor. S&P new low of the day. There you go. 66360. 660 360. We just got that red candle down. Uh that should probably be affecting a lot of the other stocks as well. Meta 603 just got a red candle down. Nvidia just got a red candle down. 70 cents away from losing 180. Palunteer red candle down but not at 170 yet. Yeah. How is crypto holding up in the midst of this? Ethereum crypto not getting a red can. I mean a little bit but still above 100. But that was that was a wick right down on the S&P 66370. You can see that right there from about 664 all the way down. All right. So, still it's almost 11:00 a.m. Still no meaningful sense of seeing any intraday low. What if the government shutdown is canceled and everything pops? Yeah, that could happen. I think that's very possible. It's just there's a lot of narratives right now going back and forth. Government shutdown is one of them. Now, pop means like everything fully reverses maybe. Again, it feels like there's more baked into it than just the shutdown, but it definitely wouldn't hurt. I feel like
>> ELF down another Elf's down another 8%. Oh my goodness, dude. ELF, how bad was this report? How bad was this freaking report? 122 to 70. It was actually up in the morning and I thought, "All right, enough pain over the past couple weeks. The market's going to let it chill." Goodness, dude. This is This is ugly. I know they have tariff impacts, but yeah, it was not a bad They beat on EPS, right? Like that's why when the init initial reaction on Wednesday, I was just like, "Oh, that's weird." I'm going to go through their uh their transcript and see what I can find as well. Elf down right here, down 8% on the day. In terms of psychology on buying the dip, again, I I said this in the morning, but I'll say it again. S&P 500 getting a brand new low 66340. I don't think this is just one of those days where you buy the dip and you get an immediate Vshape and everything goes back to normal. And that's the difference here. Like the difference between this draw down that we're seeing and every other draw, literally every other draw down this year is all those draw downs were immediately rewarded. like the instant gratification was within hours at latest within a couple days and you would see buying the dip made sense because the reasons for the dips were so rudimentary whether it was something Trump said or whether it was a Moody's bond report or you know it's like all this stuff that just didn't matter. This time you have a a intersection of a variety of different narratives that are taking place that probably aren't that serious in the long term outside of the labor market stuff. like the government will eventually be open. The labor market stuff is the the most pressing narrative. But because there's a variety of narratives that are prolonging a downturn, a downturn and it's not just like a wick down one morning and then the next day it recovers. If you buy the dip, you just have to be ready to continue seeing the dip dip if it continues to dip, which is aka a falling knife. And everyone has caught falling knives. I've caught plenty of falling knives. But I think that's the psychology right here on buying this dip. Number two is again I think all of us have bought the dip for 11 months you know so you don't have to just say all right things are down I have to buy it's like that if you've been doing that for the past 11 months and you've been rewarded for that there is such a thing as just saying I'll keep my cash on the sidelines I don't have to jump in just because you don't jump in on a dip doesn't mean you're bearish if this was January February March April that's different this is November this is the end of the year you know a lot of people have a lot of different expenses a lot of people have to do tax planning a lot of people have to think of a Christmas holiday spending. You need capital for all that stuff. So, I think it's one of those things where if you don't buy, but you've been buying all year, that doesn't mean you're net bearish. That just means like, hey, maybe I'll wait until we get a little more clarity on some of this stuff. Now, granted, if you've been waiting for a massive dip on Robin Hood and you've hated buying at 150 and now you're getting it at 123, you have to ask yourself, do you think 123 is a good enough entry? And then, do you start a position there? or on ELF down 30%. Which if I knew more about ELF I I probably would be buying because down 35% is interesting. I just don't know enough about this. But that's my argument better. Austin says buying so much dip. Philip Morris loves me. Oh my gosh. Do we have numbers on money on the sidelines? Yeah, let me pull that up. We didn't actually look at that yesterday because we had earnings uh money market flows yesterday. Um wow. Yeah. You guys want to see some fear? Here's your fear, baby. Here it is. Money market funds increased by 116 billion last week to 7.53 trillion. That is your extreme fear. That is not just interest payments on the money on the sidelines. That is people getting out of the markets and putting it into a risk-free return of 3.75%. Yeah, that's a bunch of crypto profits leaving. That's people saying, "I want something safe." Now, again, as rates come down, a lot of that money is going to have to question, does it deserve to be there when Meta is down 30%. and and and and that is the inevitable question going into next year. But that's the largest increase we've seen, I think, in a year. 100 billion in a week. I have not seen 100 billion in a week in a while. Maybe the last time we saw that was around April potentially. I'll see if I can get some statistics on how that was over time, but that is a lot of money going to the sidelines. So again, that that's my thesis on buying the dip. It's like if you have full positions in something, do you need to overindex yourself to it? That's a personal choice. If if you have been buying the dip for the past 11 months and you don't want to jump into something that you're just not sure of because you don't know if it's going to be instantly rewarded like it has been for the past 11 months, then maybe you don't. I also don't think this is where you sell though, right? And like that's that's kind of where I'm at with it. I don't think it's a sell. I don't think it's an immediate jump and buy. October 10th was a media jumping by. April was immediate jumping by. In fact, some someone was sharing uh someone sent me a couple tweets from April that I had posted and they were like it was in some Twitter thread and I don't know if I can even find it, but I I I remember reading those tweets and I'm just like, damn, bro. It it really sucked buying the dip in April. But the tweets were basically me saying, look, I think earnings are going to be okay and this tariff thing is going to eventually go away. So, it's a buy. And that is when the Nvidia position really was built out for me because Deep Seek started, but the tariff dip is when I was like, "Okay, I am 100% committed now to building out this Nvidia position." This this is not liberation day, though. This is not some knee-jerk reaction from some like this is a variety of different things after a massive run throughout the year that's starting to shake out some of the momentum and flush out a bunch of different things that we got going on. So that's why I don't think it's necessarily as simple as the April bar dip or the October budget dip liquidation week. But but like again, you know, Nvidia at 103, 105. My average is 122, but the majority of my buys were around that 103 to 115 range on Nvidia. I got a couple of shares in like like 10 15 shares at that $90 range, but majority was 103 to to 115 is at 180. So it's like it has not gone anywhere near those tariff flows to the point where it would eliminate all the work that you did in the dip buying in April. It's very similar to if you were buying the dip robin a dip at 40 in April, 30 in April, you know, you're at 123. Nebas was at like 20 at the time you're at 104. So, we have not seen the dip get to such an extent that it wipes out the entire year's gains, but it's wiping out the entire last month's and a half gains, which sometimes is inevitable. Yes, I still hold Misti. I've not sold it 500 shares. It is a small position, but I mean that's probably going to be a tax loss harvest later in the year as well. Why are the alt coins pumping? I don't know. But that is also really weird. the alt coins have been pumping over the past couple days even though Bitcoin and Ethereum are down which is really confusing a ton of the people in crypto but yeah that is continuing to take place. Any thoughts on Kraken Robotics? It's OTC so I'm not touching it. I understand there's a thesis around it. I know people like it because it's and adjacent. I don't know if that's enough of a thesis to be like oh it's my proxy to and it's like I love Andre. cool, but like I don't know if that's the best argument that I've heard for it. Um, but it is OTC and I tend to not just touch that stuff on the OTC markets. Meta right here 603 lowest of the day as well. 60380 down 2.4. Um, DTA6 being delayed is the catalyst. Yeah, that's also fair. That's also fair. Let's be honest, the way the market was trending this past year, this is needed and is overall good for the trajectory. Yes, agreed. I mean, as much as it you hate to say it, it's like, yeah, there was a little bit of a flush out that I again, Oklahoma at 193 was not sustainable. We started talking about this towards the end of October. I don't think Oklahoma's going to zero, but it's not at 193 anymore, which probably is not crazy. Nvidia loses 180. Look at that. They are taking her down 180 to 17960 right here. Now, again, if you have no Nvidia exposure and you're feeling a ton of FOMO around 205, this potentially could be your opportunity because are they really taking Nvidia down to 170? I don't know. If I had no exposure, I would definitely nibble here because I'm like, "Okay, I really want exposure for Nvidia and I don't know if the market's going to be nice enough to take it down that low." If you have a ton of Nvidia, you kind of just sit back. You let this stuff play unless you want more exposure. But my last Nvidia buy was 177. So, I mean, quite literally, that was uh that was on October 22nd. 177 was my last buy for Nvidia and the time before that was 153. So, at least for me, I would need to see closer to the early 170s to even be that interested in it. If it does continue to to go down, IWM's got to be getting hit. Small caps. Yeah, look at that. Down 1.2. Russell 2000 index hits over 7-week low. Last down 1.2%. Will Meta break 600? I don't know. Obviously, it's two bucks away from breaking it. Looks like it wants to, but we're going to see if it actually does. Met right there. 60250 red on the day. S&P new lows. S&P new lows 663320. Brad Gersner is about to be on, so we'll listen to him and we'll get his take on what's going on in the AI world. He just interviewed uh what's his name? Sam Alman as well. So, we'll get his thoughts. Shouldn't gold rise in the price of fear? That's a good question. Gold is up today. Yeah, gold's actually up. It's not at 4,000 yet, but it's basically there. Is the 10ear down? The 10-year is down, which is good. Yeah, I mean, all this is making sense. S&P is down. People are buying bonds. That's why yields are coming down. People are buying gold. That's why gold is going up. So, you got commodities up, yields down, and then the market's down. So, I mean, you're not seeing too much divergence between how usually it tends to play out, but the markets are hit. American Airlines says 12,000 customers had flights canceled Friday under FAA required reductions. Ugly. Arc is loading Archer. Any news? I don't know why AR Arc bought like two million shares of Archer yesterday. I really don't understand why they love Archer so much. unless they're just, you know, buying for the long term, which is fine. But they love Archer. 2.3 million shares of Archer. She did buy Bitmine yesterday. 167,000 shares of Bitmine. Uh, another 500,000 shares of Archer. She started buying Door Dash, which I really don't get why Kathy's buying Door Dash. Like, some of these buys, dude, are so confusing. It's like for forget the consumer stuff that Door Dash reported. Like how is Door Desk disruptive innovation which is the whole point of Arc? Like where is the disruptive innovation? And I don't I don't I don't get it. But and then Tempest, she continued to buy the dip on that as well. No, I we don't have any economic data outside of the uh labor market stuff that we got this morning, which continues to show some more claims. But nothing besides that. Uh, do we have some Fed inflation stuff? Let me see if we have this here. Yeah, I think we have some Fed inflation stuff. New York Fed. Let me Yeah, let's pull this up right here. All right, so we do have some New York Fed stuff on inflation
>> as measured by the New York Fed survey of consumer expectations mostly unchanged, but they remain a bit elevated. Take a look. The one-year uh inflation expectations declining 0.2%. Sorry, that's the wrong graphic. It should be minus 0.2 down to 3.2%. The 3-year is 3% unchanged. The 5-year also unchanged at 3%. Inflation expectations decline for gas and food. They rose for rent and medical care. And that medical care increase is pretty interesting. It was 9.4% is the expectation. That's the highest since February 2023. Perhaps some of the concern about medical care insurance costs feeding in there. On the jobs front, unemployment rate expectations rose. They're the highest since April 2025. Confidence in finding a job falling. But one curious aspect is people's uh concern about finding a job loss themselves declining for the first time since June. And then going along with that DA consumer uh sentiment outlook we got at the top of the last hour, the outlook for household fin household financial situation dropping to the lowest level since May, guys. Uh Steve, when you compare that as you mentioned to the umish expectation of unemployment rising in the next year, I think it goes to 62 net, which would be the highest since 1980. I don't know where are we right now in in characterizing as a as a true indicator.
>> Well, it it's it's it's one of the only indicators we have. It's something we look at for sure. even even you know necessity being the mother invention maybe that's not the quite metaphor there but here's the deal um it's
>> VIX up 22 now let's get to Brad Gersonner and see what he has to say about what's going on in the AI market pounder 169 S&P new lows we are continuing to get hit with some more of the red folks
>> uh oh
>> right
>> why did he react that way
>> and I think that's the story right why are people reading so much into this and I think we got to we got to step back for a The NASDAQ's gone up 40% off of the bottom in April, right? Straight up and to the right. All these AI stocks have gone up to the right. The market was kind of looking for a reason for a breather. And you know, Sam came on the podcast. He was a little bit feisty. And he said, "Listen, we're doing more than 13 billion in revenue." And he just said in his tweet that they're going to exit the year at $20 billion in revenue.
>> It's still a fraction of what they're spending.
>> Correct. And you know, as I clarified in my tweet after the fact when I said, you know, it's unfortunate everybody focused on the feistiness and not on the substance. What Sam said multiple times on the pod and since is that he expects that they'll do over a hundred billion in revenues in 27 or 28. And if they're doing that and you spread the capex out, so we talk about 1.4 trillion, half of that's going to be borne by their partners. So now we're down to 6 or 700 billion and that's spread out over 5 years. So now we're talking 100 to 200 billion of capex per year that needs to be borne by open AI. Now if they're doing 100 to 200 billion in revenue in 2018 29 then now we're in the zone of responsible and so I think that that you know the market kind of ran with this before it really digested the facts. I think as I sit here today I don't know if it's going to occur in 27 or 28 but the trajectory is on pace
>> to dound a billion revenue.
>> Yeah. I mean he hinted that it could come in 27
>> and this by the way is not just open AI. If you look at the news out of anthropic revenues also invested in right revenues are tracking well ahead of estimates the information has reported both of their internal forecasts which are both over hundred billion by 28 or 29. But here's the point Sarah the market the public market does not have a way to play pure AI outside of Nvidia. it is going to be watching do the revenues show up and if the revenues don't show up at the end of the rainbow either paid for by a consumer or by an enterprise then the AI trade in the public markets is going to have a problem. So the market is on edge it's saying show us the money and when Sam you know kind of hesitated or got a little feisty about that the market you know panicked a little bit
>> because that's the key question and and it felt like that he was he was angry for having to justify why they had to make money. I mean, listen, the number of times I've watched the world's great entrepreneurs, Steve Jobs, Elon Musk, you know, Sam Alman, get frustrated by investors asking those questions, I kind of look at it, I like somebody who's feisty and says, "We're going to blow those numbers away." But at the end of the day, they have to deliver. And that's the point here. I think this week what you saw across the market as well with Sarah's comments about a government backs stop is everybody looking for an excuse to sell the trade right I think it's healthy we're taking some of the air out of the bubble there's a wall of worry that stands in front of us Nvidia now is trading below 20 times our 27 numbers
>> are you adding more
>> yes I mean Nvidia is really interesting since 2022 do you have as much conviction now as you did then
>> I would say that our position size in Nvidia going into earnings was as big as it's been. Now, we rolled back our overall exposures at the end of last week because we felt like the market was pretty pumped up. Um, we see the consumer weakening like everybody else sees and I think the market could take a breather into the end of the year uh ahead of seeing kind of the next shoe fall in terms of Q4 earnings. The other concern that I hear a lot and and folks talk about OpenAI is is the sort of circular nature of a lot of the deals that they're doing that they are at the center of this very tangled web of deals where you know Nvidia for instance
>> is investing in them but it's also their big customer right they're a big customer of Nvidia and so if it doesn't work out the whole thing collapses
>> well I mean again I think you know we try to simplify it down you know to this meme um because we saw dark fiber lab in 2000. So everybody's like, "Okay, this must be the same playbook as then. We must be overbuilding. This is going to end up in in in a glut." I think it's far more uh sophisticated than that. The United States has a strategic imperative. We are in a global AI race with China. This is like the Manhattan project. We have to build out compute. It it's a it's not only a national security imperative, it's an economic security imperative. Um and so I think this is you know you're going to see compute build out irrespective of whether one or two of these companies slows down. We don't know yet who the ultimate winners are going to be here. We have hyperscalers that are vying to win. Meta, Google, Amazon, Microsoft etc. And so I think it's early in the race. Uh chat chatbt and openai have extended their lead in consumer. Anthropic is showing real strength in enterprise. You know over the course of the next year we're going to get a lot more information. Are we on track for AI revenues or are we not on track? If we're not on track, then the entire AI complex will trade down. If we continue on on on this line of revenues, then I think we're in a good place.
>> But you you have confidence that we're going to get there. What would AI what would OpenAI be worth if it was a public company?
>> Yeah, I I talked about this last week. Um if you look at the relative multiples, right, Meta came public at 20 times forward revenues. So, you know, if you think about the forward revenues I just talked about, 100 billion in 28 or 27. You know, when I told Sam on the pod, I said 28 or 29. He said, "No, 27." Okay, so let's say it's 27. They could go public as early as the end of next year or early in 27. On forward revenues, right, of 100 billion at 10 times, that would be a trillion at Meta's 20 times that would be two trillion. So, I think that's the underwriting that most of the investors in OpenAI are doing. They're looking at this at 500 billion which was the last round's price and saying oh this is a two to fourx over the course of the next three to five years.
>> You all I mean speaking of winners and losers you you are picking them in the public market as well. You met Meta still sub substantial chunk of your portfolio.
>> All of our position sizes have come down Meta included. Um but you know if you look at our top holdings we have Nvidia continues to be one of our largest holdings Amazon Microsoft SKH Highix. So, we're definitely leaning into the AI trade, but our overall exposures, I'll put it to you this way. At the start of the year when the tariff in Broglio was going on, we were very small in our positioning. By May, when we were confident we're going to land the plane on these tariffs, we were extra large. And today, we're kind of medium, right? Because valuations have come up a lot on the AI trade and the consumer is fraying over here. So, we need to make sure that we see those rate cuts, that inflation's under control in order for the macro backdrop to be conducive to the market continuing to win.
>> Do you still do you still think that Meta is going to be one of the big winners? I mean, there's been a little bit of unease after the report and the market has treated them like an AI winner,
>> but it's it's more confusing to me because a Google and a Microsoft already served the enterprise on cloud. So, where where does the revenue generation come in on the Meta side for the what more than $70 billion that Zuckerberg is
>> spending? Good. The good news for Meta is they have one of the most prolific AI businesses in the world called the family of apps, right? The greatest beneficiaries of AI, the recommener engines today are Tik Tok and and the Meta family of apps. It it it's prolific in its earnings power. So, they're producing billions and billions of dollars of free cash flow. They're redeploying into AI. It's making all the family of apps better, right? The content's better. We're watching it more.
>> But that's not the ultimate end game, is it?
>> Agree.
>> Just ads. I think most the reason it's traded off is investors are saying, "Hey, you're taking all this free cash flow. You're investing it in AI. What's the new source of revenue, right? What's the new product?" So, I think there are a variety of things they could do. Um, we'll we'll have to wait and see. They could make a move into the enterprise, right? We could
>> You could tell right here, even Gersonner doesn't have an argument for Meta. This is what we've been talking about this week. And he was a big investor in Meta for a like he doesn't know what Meta can do besides ads. I think that's the reason the street is concerned about their capex. We're just not sure what Meta is really going to be using for
>> see them get into agents. We know they want to build a frontier model. We could see them get into the cloud game. You're right. They would be late to the cloud game uh if they got there. But I think principally this is now the cheapest stock in the Mag 7. It's come off a lot from the highs and I think because of some of the questions that you articulate. So I think if they just drive core earnings in their family of apps, they stay fit, right? Mark said flatter is faster, leaner is better, right? So if they do that and and gross margins continue or I mean net income margins continue to grow, I think the company will do great
>> if the opportunity
>> and I agree with that as well. It's not a question of Meta's business being bad. It's a question of where's the necessity to spend all this capex from because
>> what else is there besides advertising and in the actual core product
>> is not as big as you're projecting as Sam Alman is projecting as Jensen Wong is projecting in the next three years. What went wrong?
>> Right. I well I mean listen just like with the internet we tend to overestimate the near-term and underestimate the long term. And I think you know again everybody gets euphoric. Nvidia is up 15 times off the bottom but but think about this. its earnings have gone from less than a dollar a share to our forecast over $10 a share in 2027. So these are earnings-driven increases. But at the end of the day, if artificial intelligence does not produce the economic productivity we all think it will, the economic growth we all think it will improvement in the lives of enterprises and consumers, then we'll all all of this stuff will come in. Just like with the internet, if Amazon didn't deliver, if Google didn't deliver, then the internet wouldn't have been big. My experience living through three super cycles, right? Internet, social, mobile, and cloud, they all ended up far bigger than we thought. We're going through this digestion phase. I think digestion is good because that prevents the bubble that everybody was worried was forming. I don't think we're in a f bubble. $20 billion for open AI is the fastest growing company in the history of Silicon Valley, right? So, we we really need to catch ourselves.
>> But 1.4 trillion is probably the biggest ever amount from a company that's not profitable.
>> And one further point on the 1.4 trillion. I said half of that probably isn't even born by their balance sheet. But think about it this way. If the revenues aren't there, I'm certain that they can extend and amend, right? They can adjust those capex commitments in order to make sure, as Sam said, to make sure that the capex matches revenue. Ultimately, that is all of the jobs of the of these companies. So, don't get hung up on the 1.4 trillion. I know that that's, you know, that and the circular re revenue chart backs,
>> you know, is what everybody's focused on. I think that, you know, again, I'm a buyer of the stock, not a seller of the stock, but I have a longer time horizon than most. I'm not looking at OpenAI over the next year. I'm looking over.
>> So, you turn him down on whether you wanted to sell those shares when he asked.
>> Sam knows very well that I'm a buyer of the stock.
>> Thank you, Brad. It was great to catch up with you. You're you're sort of at the center of of a lot of these discussions right now. Brad Gersonner from Alimter here at the cityroup TMT conference. Carl,
>> Sarah, when we come back, Elon Musk says Intel could soon be a foundry partner for Tesla. We'll get to that story next. Plus more from Sarah from uh at Pebble Beach. Palanteer's Alex Karp is with us and watching the major averages here close to session lows as the S&P is back to 60.
>> All right, so we'll uh we'll wait till Karp and then uh we'll end the show this morning after we get to see Karp speak. Uh interesting stuff by Gersonner. essentially Gersonner making the argument S&P 500 right there 663 basically lows of the day uh about hey if this AI thing doesn't work out then everything kind of collapses he is more confident than not that it will work out but you can tell from how he's talking about it that if it doesn't and if there is not the type of productivity and earnings growth and all that stuff that we've seen that there's going to be some issues. Now granted, he's saying this in a world in which we just had big tech earnings and every single company crushed it. So obviously there's fear across the entire market and that's why you have people speculating on if the long-term potential of it is is going to work out. We just saw in Q3 that a lot of these companies are putting up phenomenal numbers likely because of AI. A lot of companies that are not big tech are beating up their EPS um estimates because their margins are getting up because of AI. There was actually a chart, I forgot to show it a couple days ago, but the AI was mentioned in particular relationship to margin efficiency on an aggregate study of these earnings transcripts like 500 times in Q3 so far. So I mean he's right like if AI doesn't work out all this goes away. But if it does then you know that is why the market is trading where it's trading at. But the digestion as he's discussing right here is definitely taking place today. S&P 500 right there 66295. VIX still above 20. VIX is 21.87. VIX up 12% on the day. Uh Open Door down to although that has a nice recovery. Robin Hood bouncing off from 120. Pounder did touch 169 for a second. 16891 it touched now back to 170. and BTC in the midst of all this red. Bitcoin and Ethereum aren't Look at Bitcoin 1014. That's weird, bro. Bitcoin actually holding on to 101. You wouldn't think that would happen. You wouldn't think that would happen. BMR, are we going green on BMR? Wow. BMR is two cents away from going green. Is everyone selling AI stocks and going into Ethereum and Bitcoin? Yeah, old coins are rallying. Doge is rallying. It's not weird. Bitcoin is a smoke alarm for global liquidity. No, that's fair. But when risk on is going risk off in the equity markets, usually Bitcoin tends to follow. Bitcoin is, you know, Bitcoin tends to follow the NASDAQ. When you Bitcoin has a higher alpha because it has outperformed the NASDAQ, but if you put the charts on each other, NASDAQ and Bitcoin, they tend to be similar. They both bottomed in 22 and then started recovering. Bitcoin right there 101.4. That is nice to see. Open door. Someone just put a million dollars into calls for February 26, $7 strike. February 26, $7 strike. MP's up 6%. That is kind of weird. I know they had a good earnings, but uh all the other rare art stocks were getting hit today. MP's up six. So that's good to see some of the rare stocks get some move. So trying to bounce low 26s. The minor close to bouncing. Hims was below 40. Hims is still below 40. 39.86. IWM still down one. And then Meta down two. Oh, TTD, they uh wow, 7% down. They didn't have the best earnings yesterday. S&P new lows, dude. This is so back and forth right there. It's like you got to keep an eye right on those candles as they get wicks down. Nvidia did bounce off 178, now at 180. The semis are falling because Nvidia and AMD can't sell into China. I mean, that's like the main headline, but also if you're getting a S&P draw down, then Nvidia is going to get hit with it. SMH right here down three and a half% on the day as well. Uh, this Intel Tesla update, let's hear about that. And then we got Karp and we will listen to him for the day. Gold is up, Apple's red, Bitcoin's up. Bunch of different moves going back and forth throughout the entire day.
>> The capacity it sits in Taiwan and South Korea. So bringing that capability back to US soil that is bigger than just Intel's comeback. This is about national leverage and moving away from Taiwan semi which many see as vulnerable to China, our largest rival. This is also a huge undertaking by Intel which has juggled delays, cost overruns. It's even brought in Washington as a partial stakeholder in these massive efforts. Now, Intel's newest process under Lip Bhutan who took over in March. It's known as 14A and this is essentially a moonshot to match or beat TSMC Taiwan Semi at the leading edge. So, inking a deal with a major player to manufacture these advanced nodes, that would be a coup. It would bring Intel into a very, very small handful of fabs in the world that can actually produce at that level. Now, it's not just Musk that may be interested either. Now, in September, Bloomberg reported that Intel approached Apple about a strategic investment. And this would make sense for Apple because it's currently overdependent on TSMC. Intel would be a way for Apple to diversify and do so on US soil. Now, this is obviously an outcome that Washington and the president himself would like to see, but this is a big butt, Carl. Advanced chip manufacturing, it's extremely difficult. Jensen Hong himself said that today in Taiwan when asked about Musk's plans to build that giant chip factory. He said it's not just about building a plant, but manufacturing chips is about engineering, the science, and the artistry. So, Intel now it's under the gun to sign up customers or markets. They could once again start to doubt the companies and Lip Bhutan who was taken over for this specifically his ability to actually deliver on this. Yeah, I was just thinking back to some notes that came out right when the administration took their stake D and the thinking was that's great, but is Intel going to be able to reliably deliver products that meet spec are costefficient? Having a marginal customer uh would definitely help and and then again there's the crossurrens of politics at work here too.
>> Absolutely. It would be a huge vote of confidence, right? Because remember that we saw even customers like Apple move away from Intel chips in favor of manufacturing their own and we know that there's a lot more competition as well too. But at that leading edge which is so difficult to get to I mean China's been trying to get to that leading edge for so long. Um, if Intel was actually able to do that, it would be such a coup. But really signing up some major customers would be the biggest vote of confidence. And the first,
>> you know, there were rumors yesterday of people saying, "What if Tesla just buys Intel, which theoretically it wouldn't be that hard to do?" Intel's market cap. Okay. Well, Intel's market cap was 90 billion. I forgot they are up 84% in the past six months. Now it's like almost 200 billion. But Tesla does have 47 billion in cash or it's like 42 billion in cash. So, I mean, yeah, might not be the easiest, but it would be kind of crazy if Elon just said, "You know what? We're just going to buy an entire chip fab and dedicate the chips to to Tesla." That's probably not going to happen. But Elon's necessity for more and more chips is one of those things that's definitely getting a lot of people to think, how much demand really is there going to be for Tesla? Uh, Bitcoin still making a move, folks. 101.4. 101.4. four. Where's TSM on a day like this? TSM 279 down three. Um, and then uh Intel is Intel's up. Intel's actually up. Dude, what are the what are the stocks that are the most down today? Um, let me see if I can find that. largest names getting hit. By the way, Nvidia Market Cap 4.3, Apple 3.9, Microsoft 3.6, Google 3.3, and Amazon 2.5. Um, TTD, Nvidia, DJT, these are some of the names that are getting hit the most. Archer down 17. Archer's not down 17, bro. Archer down 17. Oh my goodness. Archer's down 17. Okay, that's up there. SLNH. This was another one of those data center plays. Yeah. Down 20%, small cap. Irre down 11, below 60. Where's ASST? That Bitcoin thing that's at 132. Absela 19. NTLA down 24. Did they have some drug therapies go wrong today? This one's more in biotech. SMR is down 16. Wow, that's worse than Oaklo. Look at that. 16. All right. So, you're seeing the the nuclear trade start to wind down. A lot of the Evatl trade winding down. Is Joby down as well? Job's down seven. And you're seeing the data center Bitcoin miner plays wind down as well. And then obviously ELF. What do you think about TSM? I I I've actually been meaning to do a deep deep dive on TSM. I mean, we looked at their earnings a couple weeks ago. 57% of their revenue is all based on GPU sales. I mean, they are one could argue the most important company on the planet because Nvidia doesn't get to do what they do unless you have TSM. Um, but you know, the valuation also has reflected that. I mean, I don't know enough to say if it's undervalued, but it's at 1.4 trillion. stock this year is up 38% over the past five years, up 205. So, it obviously has made a move over the past couple years. We have Karpon in like two minutes. We'll end out the show today with listening to him. I mean, look, the stock for Palinger is down uh since earnings. So, I would be curious to see how kind of Karp talks about it. I imagine Karp's going to say the same thing that he's been saying, which is that Palunteer is a one-of-a-kind company and that's why Palenteer has got the multiple that they got. But obviously Bur putting out that put position and really scaring the market in the midst of a macro windown, you know, that's why you're seeing the pain that Aller is feeling right now along with a lot of other of these names. Celsius, I still don't get why. Does anyone know why Celsius took a hit? now down 8% again today. They had a phenomenal earnings which is a lot again a lot of these name unless you thought Celsius's multiple was ridiculous at 62 which maybe it was up there. I don't know if it was absolutely ridiculous year to date it's still up 52%. But they beat her they beat EPS by like 20%. Like Celsius has done everything right this year. Sales his core brand growth is down. That makes sense though. I mean, the reason they've been acquiring companies is because they probably knew the core brand was falling off a bit. So, I wonder why the street is that, you know, surprised by that. There's a reason they acquired Rockstar and Alani. Trey does down eight. SoFi 2612. SoFi hasn't touched 25 yet. No, it did. It touched 25 at 10:30 for a second. Now it's back above it. Bitcoin losing a little bit of its juice, but still above 101. Um, all right. I think we got Karp live. Let's go to him and then we'll keep going from there. Sales grow the forecast at 3.7 to 4.2%. They're looking at the season as November and December and it could be tropping topping that number for the first time. Now, this forecast range is slightly more bullish than what we've heard from Deoid or Mastercard's expectations, albeit the last one out, and the NRF forecast is the most followed in the retail industry. Now, the holiday season can be an outlier when it comes to spending trends and judging the health of the consumer. NRF CEO Matt Shay said on a call with reporter that the holidays often have a moat around them. He did say consumers are quote thinking about things much more deliberately, trading down, looking for less expensive options, trying to find value wherever they can find it. And we know there's a great deal of price sensitivity, but as one CEO told me just this week, somehow Santa Claus always comes. But the group's seasonal hiring forecast, that's less rosy. Shoppers might be doing more selfch checkckout at Christmas because the NRF estimates between 265 and 365,000 seasonal workers will be hired in retail. That's actually a 15-year low. Zip Recruiter tells CNBC, "While seasonal hiring listings overall are up, retail specific roles are down from last year." When it comes to the retailers, Walmart basically says like it's done in the years past, there may be some hiring done on a store-by store basis, but the majority of those hours will be given to current associates. Target is basically the same thing. They say some stores may end up hiring, but largely it's going to go to the employees here. Kohl's is also saying that they were hiring seasonal workers just like they did last September, but not giving a number. Now, Bath and Body Works hiring slightly less than last year at 30,000 compared to 30,000. Victoria Secret planning a modest increase, but not giving a number. And Amazon is looking for 250,000 workers. That's pretty consistent with what we've seen from them the last several years.
>> I mean, it's such good analysis and information, Courtney. I guess it just comes down to the consumer. I'm thinking about what Jane Frasier just told me from Croup where she said big difference in the soft data, the surveys which are weak and the hard data, the consumer spending on their card business. They haven't seen any slowdown. Now 85% of it is prime customers,
>> but it's interesting when you get that commentary with some of the more cautious tone from the retailers.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think we're just going to keep watching this bifurcation widen when it comes to the low end and the high end. I think the middle is really where everyone is squeezed. That may always be the case to some degree, but I think especially when times get tougher economically. That being said, the holidays sometimes just defy odds, right? They defy what you normally see. And more often than not, you see people open those wallets for the holiday. Maybe they're using more buy now pay later. Maybe they're taking on a little bit more debt than they have in the past just to make sure that they can have a normal holiday season, which we've seen even more and more with every passing year since the pandemic. Look at Halloween, right? Halloween has become a much bigger spending holiday. People just want to celebrate.
>> Yes. Get together. Thank you, Courtney. Courtney Reagan. Our coverage from Pebble Beach here continues after the break.
>> All right. So, carp should be up in a second. The holiday stuff is also really important because you got a lot of companies hiring these seasonal workers and uh that for the labor market is like kind of uh allowing it to at least be stabilized for the next month and a half. But again, that's just the holiday season. A lot of those jobs are going to be rotational and then begs the question, what do we have in terms of labor market next year? Uh, Palenter losing 170 again 16953. Archer down 17. SoFi 5 cents away from below 26. S&P new lows 66225. Meta did not break 600o yet, but still above 603. And then Nvidia back to 180. Here's a theory that I had last night and that I was talking to Steve about and I wonder what people think of it. But I don't know what the implication of this theory is necessarily, but it it is something to think about. I don't think Trump can be a president with a bare market. Meaning, I don't think he could handle waking up every day and the stock market's down every week, which is what happens in a bare market. unemployment continues to rise, labor market comes down, like obviously, you know, the sentiment around the entire country feels rather hopeless when the economy is bad. Like he is a president that uh brags, boasts, he has a very large ego. He cannot handle ever being wrong. I mean, this is just objectively true about his personality. I don't I mean, the only time he had to deal with a meaningful like draw down was Q4 of 2018. And I know we had the the COVID draw down, but then COVID was a Vshape, right? Because the Fed started printing. So like the stock market went to record highs. So the only time that Trump really dealt with some pain was Q4 of 2018 and then by 2019 everything recovered within the first six months. And so that's the only time where he had to deal with like some actual pain as a president in a bare market. Uh wasn't it a bare market before Trump? No. 2023 and 2024 we had 23%. I don't think we were in a bare market in 23 or 24. S&P was up 20% both those years. I I would qualify that as bullish. So, I don't know if we can repeat a 20% year in 2025. But the point is I don't know if in 2026 he can wake up every morning, address the media, and the market's going down every day, which so I guess the implications to this theory is that I think Trump's going to try his hardest to make sure he keeps the market afloat because I don't think his literal ego will allow him when reporters ask him, "Hey, the stock market's down 5% this year. what do you have to say? Or hey, jobless claims came in at 450,000. We're obviously in a recession. What do you have to say about that? Like he can't just blame Biden there. You know, there's nothing like he can't say like he's going to have to take responsibility for it. And I don't know if he's willing to do that because he never had to do that as a president, at least in the first term. 2017 was a great year when he uh when he when he first took office. So fear and greed 14. Wow. So, I just I just I you know, at at its core, I think that the impact of this here is that he's really going to try to make sure the next couple years are not him fighting with the media about fake news with the stock market being down because at some point, you know, people are just going to stop listening if he tries to blame the Biden administration or something, you know. So, I think he's going to really try to keep the economy going. And again, the beautiful big beautiful bill. It has enough legislation to usher in progrowth. The question is Trump might get blindsided with this labor market stuff just like with COVID, right? Like CO just came out of nowhere and then boom, you know, you have this recession you have to deal with. But with uh the labor market due to AI, which is not Trump's fault if that ends up creating a a recession or a massive labor market headwind, but that is something that he's gonna have to navigate and we're gonna have to see how that plays out. All right. Trump is not live, but someone a bit better is live. Alex Karp. Let's head over to him and see what Mr. Karp has to say. Let me pull this up. All right, here we go.
>> That you can tell people to reassure them when they're wondering whether all of the AI hype is going to be worth it.
>> Uh, well, actually, I wouldn't tell them anything. I would say go look at our numbers. Uh, we have the single best uh rule of 114, which is like the Olympic score in in enterprise software that I think anyone's ever printed. So a great score is 45. An extraordinary score is like 60. 114 is like Michael Phelps at the Olympics. I would say go look at our growth in the US 121%. Uh you know look at our aggregate growth in the US 77%. more importantly um uh but actually what I would really tell uh the people I care about on that which are Palunteerians and people who invested their own money over the last couple years is the things I'm most proud about about the Palunteer journey is we we've printed venture results for the average man and woman in America meaning if you invested in Palunteer you're up a thousand% and the only other way you could have done that in the past would be like be an endowment at Harvard by the way giving people the worst education ever but somehow having unfair results and unfair returns because they can use specialized instruments and the best people in the world. So yes, you did better as a as a truck driver in America investing in Palunteer than the Harvard endowment did with the best.
>> What if you missed it and now you see the most expensive stock in terms of price to sales in the entire S&P 500 and you wonder if if it's too late?
>> No, it's uh you know I I think what I think is interesting about our numbers is not our numbers. It's they're indicative of if you're growing 121% in the US off of our base and with our lack of sales and acumen, something's going right. You'll have to decide. You know, the funny thing is, of course, people are super interested in our share price. I just view it there's a clearing price. That's what people pay. I I we at Palunteer are just very focused on ontology, FDE, uh foundry, uh the war fighter, the average worker who's using our product and becoming wealthier and better and stronger and safer and um and you know, we've been focused on tomorrow's delivery of of value today. Uh over the last 20 years, one of the one of the interesting things actually I would say is just more social scientifically. If you see a revolution where somebody's been in the market for a long time, but the company's fresher, younger, better, the financials are better, they're better every quarter, there's something going on. You need to understand that.
>> Well, I mean, you're also focused on the retail investor, right? I know. I mean, you you were very defensive, for instance, around short sellers. Michael Bur putting the short on this weekend. Some people were wondering,
>> by the way, I I what I was defensive about, not defensive, I would say offensive about I don't like short sellers. And you know, everyone's like, "Oh, it's price discovery. Great." That's like saying you're a lawyer. You don't have to defend the pedophile. You know, yeah, I'm all in favor of everyone having a defense. I'm in favor of civil rights and defense for the innocent and for of the guilty because that's how you have civil liberties. If you're a lawyer, you don't have to work for a terrorist. You don't have to work for a pedophile. If you're a short seller, you do not have to actually short a truly great company. By the way, the thing that's great about Palunteer is we deliver for the average person on the battlefield, on the work floor, and as investors. pick some other company to screw with. But actually in the in the in the Bur case, I I actually think what was happening was market manipulation. I strongly suspect he was getting out of his position. And to get out of his position, he had to screw the whole economy by bismerching the best financials ever. Again, financials that are are helping the average person as investors on the battlefield, etc., etc.
>> Are you going to take legal action?
>> Nope. I'm just pointing it out. I mean, you know, look, Palanteer, we focus on delivery. We're on the It's like we're on our own factory floor. what I'm doing mo and what we at Palanteer are doing almost every day and without really doing that much you know we used to have this saying at Palanteer which I probably shouldn't say it's like we're quiet in the streets hot in the sheets and that's kind of you know it's like we're not we're doing our thing
>> let's talk about the visit the fundamentals so half of your business a little more than that is still government revenue right so has is the shutdown having an impact
>> you know again um I'm sure at some point it could but you know we're look we're focused on the war fighter we're continuing continue to service the war fighter. We're going to do everything we can. Uh we will continue to service the war fighter. Uh independent of what happens in the government as long as people don't for don't close the building, we'll be there. Uh that that work all over the world is crucial. The the impact of the American war fighter is much much greater than most people realize and it's a force for good in the world and we're very very happy to support it.
>> And you've supported Ukraine and and Israel, the IDF when it comes to fighting their wars. Those are sort of recent examples and and I'm curious what you've learned about the role of AI in war fighting and how advanced
>> if you look if you look at if you look at um uh all battles currently that are actually being waged have moved in the last four years from kind of pure hardware to hardware software integration. Um, and if you look both, it's hard because you kind of have to go into things we can't go into. But if you look where the war where the operations have been successful, if you look at it the way our adversaries do when they do a diagnostic on what worked and what don't didn't, you'll see that there's not a single case where an operation worked, meaning it was lethal. The adversary was decimated and there was a minimum amount of innocent lives lost that did not involve software. And we're in every single one of those fights.
>> Well, that's good news.
>> I'm well minimizing. Yeah, the the the the advance of of of the advancements in software AI, so large language models and and and and machine learning inside foundry, inside ontology, uh have led to dramatically better outcomes for the people doing it and and we will see over time also for for minimizing uh innocent human life.
>> And then there's the enterprise business which has also been on fire. What what are you seeing in terms of corporate demand right now and and the sort of speed of adoption? How's it changing? So again, you know, uh I love people that bismerch. I I don't it's kind of hard to bismerch 121% growth off of a large base. Again, the same way we're divi we're we're delivering venture results to re for retail investors, we're also delivering startup growth at a at a off of a large base. So, you know, it's like what we're to to get that kind of growth, you need a total cycle change. You need to be able to get into the market quicker. You need widespread adoption. You need customers realizing they're going to get value at the end. People make business very complicated. You get paid a subset of the value you create for your client partner. And what we're seeing is people are open to having more value creation. One of the one of the biggest trends in AI now is you can do what you had to do uh in the private markets in the public markets. returns for for for people in the public market of their venture transformation as if you took a company private. So when you take a company private but but by the way we're doing we're take it's essentially you can take a company private in the public space but then miraculously the way that often happened in the past is you the workers they got rid of the workers. Actually what we're seeing is the workers become more valuable the capital structure becomes better the revenue is more efficient. It's like it's like this thing where it is the promise of what you'd want to do for transformation because typically transformation meant take cost out meaning margins go up nothing changes in the quality of the revenue meaning the quality of the product. So now we're seeing better products grow revenue growth and workers become more valuable and that's why you see this very very dramatic growth in our US commercial business. By the way the other number in the US commercial is we grew 75% of our base 77%. 77%. So again, you see here with 77% growth or 121% growth, what you're seeing is uh you're seeing startup kind of growth with scale numbers and then margins that really no startup could ever have.
>> That that's been your that's been the constant theme here. Okay, before we have to go, I I do want to ask you about something that happened in New York this week um with the mayoral election because you're one of the few CEOs that's been very outspoken on politics and your values and sort of this idea. Let me just before I speak out, let me just sell something say something that I think is very true that's changed in the last 5 years.
>> In all these cases, every question you're asking, what I'm basically saying is you can trust the expert or you can trust yourself. And if you trust the expert, you're a fool and you're going to have a worse life. You're going to be poorer and less safe. Okay? So the message I have for people is if you're trusting the experts to protect you from having in the experts. Well, in any case, in this case, it's like there are a lot of people sitting at home, Democrats, like I've been most of my life saying, "What is wrong with my party? How could I elect this person?" Okay, but I'll tell you what, you're going to have to remember, your party's not going to defend you. Your expert's not going to defend you. Your doctor's not exactly the doctor you thought. You've got to actually go out on your own.
>> So, what are you are you having a reckoning here?
>> No, I'm just telling people you're You say, "I'm one of the few CEOs." Yeah. Well, okay. It's time for other people to speak up. Like I mean obviously somebody who has no work experience ever who has views that have never worked should not be put in charge of the most important enterprise uh at of its kind maybe in the world meaning city
>> New York City.
>> New York City. So
>> is it the future of your your party? Are you still in that?
>> Well, again it depends. Are we gonna Well, I view myself as an independent, but I actually in my own way by pointing these things out, I feel like I'm the only I think I'm one of the few people that's actually fighting for the Democrats because actually fight like, you know, I support all these people including, you know, but then I'm yell like all these people that I support, I actually all yell at them in private and I yell at them sometimes in public. It's like, so if you're actually a friend of progressive values, what does it mean to be a friend of progressive values? You believe in the working class. You want the working class to have a better life. What does that mean? It means that you believe that working-class people should earn more. They should be safer. They should be better. How do you do that? You close the border and give them ontologydriven a AI. You also allow them to invest in something like you don't do an IPO. You do a DPO. You explain to them how the product works when the experts tell them it doesn't work this way. And you fight with them all the way through. And that's what we have to do as a society is that we all have to become indiv individual participants in creating our own destiny because the people who have a job of protecting your destiny are home asleep or a cocktail or are embibing some ideology that no longer works by and large. They don't they may realize it doesn't work but they don't care because the joke is on you.
>> Alex Karp, we could go another hour. We we're out of time but thank you. Thank you for joining us. Some of the key questions that investors in our audience has. Alex Karp of Palunteer. Carl, one of a kind.
>> When we come back, blocking a
>> All right, there was Karp being Karp. I mean, at its core, a lot of these ideas that he's been talking about, these riffs that he's been on over the past couple weeks have been relatively consistent with what he's been saying. Uh, in terms of the Michael Bur comments, which is what I know people probably care about the most, pound right there, 170, recovering a little bit after 168. Uh basically he made the argument that he thinks it's market manipulation. He thinks that Bur uh initiated the position or had to disclose the position to get out of the short or the put. We don't know until what another 45 days on what the position will uh manifest itself into. Whether he's getting rid of the position, whether he's taking profits right here, whether he's waiting. Um but in Karp's eyes it is a form of market manipulation as he is trying to get liquidity to exit out of position because objectively he was underwater. He might not be underwater anymore. He might still be. We have to see. I mean again pounder went to 142 in uh late July. If Bur started shorting at 142, you know, obviously he's still underwater. If he started shorting at 180, then he is above water. So it really just depends on the entry price that he got in. Um a DPO is a direct offering, not a initial public offering. So it's there there's sort of a more shareholder friendly way to go public. And that's what Karp is speaking on when he talks about what does it mean to fight for the average American. That riff that he's on as well, you know, there's a lot of nuance to it, but essentially what he's saying is that a lot of the elite intellectuals that are essentially pontificating about how the world ought to be is not how the world works. And that's when he gets into the conversations of immigration and open borders. And so the analogy behind, you know, we tell you what the product actually does, not what the analysts want it to do, which is why he's against the Wall Street analyst or the IPO versus DPO. All of that goes back to kind of Palante's core philosophy of actually getting value if you deliver value, not saying that we're going to deliver value and then deliver nothing. And that's kind of his argument for why the stock is up where it is today. pounder at 170 still trades at a very strong multiple. But the reason it trades at this multiple as Karp said is because their numbers simply can't be replicated in the AI space and that's why you're seeing that for pounder. S&P new lows of the day 66204 that one's down. It did hit 661 for a second. Oakl's down five. Meta's down two. Meta still hasn't lost 600 which is at least nice to see. Robin Hood looks like it wants to lose 120 121.4. Nebius down six. AMD down five. Folks, we have not found a bottom at all. So, the entire market throughout the day has absolutely been a falling knife. I mean, maybe some names have gotten a little bit of reprieve, but pretty much the entire market. Zeta from 20 to 17. I mean, you're seeing this market try to find uh an intraday low and we're just not getting there yet. Gold, are we moving up on gold? Yeah, gold 410. That is peak fear. You are seeing people sell off stocks, get into gold. The VIX up almost 10% on the day. Um, VIX now up 14%, VIX at 22. So, gold up, VIX up, 10-year, yields are down. That means people are buying that 10-year. All of that makes sense with the S&P 500 being down. It really does mean people are getting out of the markets and going into something else. And I think that's why you're seeing some of the pain that we're seeing right now. Pounder 16945 on the day. All right, folks. That is it for today. I will be back on the market close. Yeah, the old coins are running. I don't know why why that's happening, but the altcoins are indeed running. It's a little weird, but this is what you got today. gold right there at 4,000 and then the S&P still down on the day. I'll be back on the close. We'll see what we can do to kind of see how this turns out. It is a Friday. I mean, honestly, you could see a little bit more pain throughout the end of the day as options begin to expire. Um, and in general, you know, on Friday, we tend to get a bit of a sell off towards the end of the day. So, we'll see. Maybe there's a reversal, maybe not. In a couple hours, we don't have any earnings. will set up the preview for next week, but obviously a very ugly day and there's no way to go against it. Word of the day. I actually know this one. Uh, esoteric. I like this word. Intended or understood by a small specialized group of people with a particular knowledge or interest. The professor's lecture on quantum metaphysics was fascinating but far too esoteric for most of the class. I would say the draw down we've seen over the past week has been rather esoteric because there's not like that core headline that anyone can point to. Karp is definitely an esoteric individual, but nonetheless, this is the red that we're seeing. All right, esoteric market. Bunch of different narratives to say why we are down, but nonetheless, we are indeed down. We'll see by the end of the close if that can potentially be resolved. S&P right now 662 down 1.24% on the day. 2 trillion erased this week from the stock market and we'll be back on the close to see how we end out on Friday. All right. Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'll be back on market close. I think we'll have Steve on. Matt probably is not gonna be on because he's in the UK, but I think we'll have Steve on and we'll keep going from there. Bye everybody. Have a good one. I'll see you guys on the close. Bye everybody.