[Episode 4] In July 2017, our whole family moved to Barcelona, Spain. Before leaving Beijing, I sent people all the suits I wore during the interview. After being a TV reporter for 20 years, That's a false and sweet action for me I'm going to a foreign country Just live, no more work So we live in the tourist area On the edge of the Lampala Island To be honest This most prosperous pedestrian street in Europe Is not a good place to live There are tourists and tourists everywhere But we have a three-year-old little girl She likes everything on this street Artists, music, ice cream So we settled down here A month later, when the terrorist attack happened I was making dinner It was August 17, 2017 Almost 5 o'clock in the afternoon What did he give you? My daughter is playing the swing Her father is on the way home 5 o'clock just passed I received a text message from my husband  I was so nervous that I could get someone to come and get me. At that time, the door opened behind me. It was my daughter who opened it. She was crawling out. I pulled her in with one hand. A helicopter was almost flying over us from the roof and flying towards Lampula. At that time, the door opened. Her father came back. There were sweat stains on his nose, hair and shoulders. He was carrying a new printer on his shoulder. So he couldn't reach out to see the phone. He said he was stopped at the entrance of Lampula. I don't know why. I saw two or three hundred people running away from me. It was like there was a beast chasing after me. I told him it was a horror. I handed my daughter to my husband. I wanted to go to the scene and take a look. But the police stopped me. The terrorists fled. The city was closed. The search began. The police asked all the people around us to leave immediately. I saw the customers leaving from the back door I don't know why, my legs are soft I walked around to the exit of the landline All the people here are from the inside With a scared mother sitting on the ground I saw at least eight ambulance cars Not waiting for death Delivered to the wounded from the inside I sat at this intersection for an hour They kept talking On this road At least 13 people died超过130人受伤 The train is from this road. Turn right and turn left again. Enter the pedestrian street. This is the second day after the accident. So the traffic density on the day of the accident is higher than now. The miracle of the road is not easy. This white train just pressed the pedestrian street. The speed is not fast. After that, the crowd is separated like a tide. This train is on both sides. People who hit the road and ran away. She pushed forward with her whole body on the steering wheel. On both sides of the shop, you can only see a white shadow of fruit. "It's a fake child!" The car kept going to the center of the Lambo, to the Roman Cycle. This is the symbol of Barcelona's heart. The reason she stopped was because there were too many people under the car. She couldn't go any further. It was at this time that my husband was stopped at the entrance of the Lambo. If he had come earlier, he would have been in the blue sea. and carry the heavy load with headphones. If the car comes from behind him, he won't be able to hear or avoid it. We couldn't sleep that night. We were lying on the bed and reading the news. The windows were the only signs I had ever heard of. The whole city was black. Only the 100-meter-long blue sky was bright. It was like a painful heart beating. At 2.27 a.m., I saw a news article. I pushed the child's father and told him, A new attack took place. At 1 a.m., a small town in Capri, 100 km away from Barcelona, a car entered the crowd. Five people were dragged out of the car, tied to a piece of explosive, with knives and axes, killing a female, five people and a police officer. The five people were killed. The attackers of the Lampurra were in the same organization, no one was running away. The next morning, the danger had not been resolved. When the police suddenly ran towards us   The original plan of this attack is far more terrible than I imagined. August 16th, the day before the attack, a surprise explosion occurred near the Al Qa'na 300 kilometers away from Barcelona. A few kilometers away, you can see the sea mushrooms. These terrorists have created about 200 kilograms of explosives here. They are called "explosives of bullets". The original plan is to be able to hold 100,000 viewers on August 20th. in the famous Nookan Ball Park and the famous local When our family was on the steps of L'Anne Blanc, what shocked me was not what I saw, but I didn't see anything. No blood, no debris, no people. There are no pigeons. This busy street has never been empty like this. It has never been quiet like this. But the living people have disappeared here. The only thing left are these light green circles. This is the symbol of the victims. We went forward and there were more people Under the trees on the way we put flowers, candles and souvenirs I have a little house that looks like that. That one is small, and mine is big. That one is big. My daughter is too young to understand what happened. I didn't answer him, I just held his hand. A three-year-old boy named Harvey was lying here, at the same age as him. He was lying on the Maserati in Milo. This Maserati represents the city's unwavering welcome to all strangers. I thought it was an isolated attack, but on the fourth day after the attack, when we were in Paris with my parents who were in the tour group, the police discovered that Spanish terrorists had taken pictures at the Aifur Tower before the attack. The police inferred that they were confirming the location of the bomb. My parents gave up their plans to visit the Eiffel Tower, and just took a picture of the Paris Tower with my daughter. France is preparing to build a three-meter-high bomb shelter next to the tower, which is hollow. We wanted to take our families to other sites, but in April of that year, someone attacked the police on the street of the city. In June, someone attacked the police in the Paris Saint-Maurice. In the end, we went to the Louvre, but in February, a man with a knife attacked the police here. When I saw French soldiers holding assault rifles at the airport, I felt like I was out of the battlefield. The soldiers were so nervous, because four months ago, I was hiding here as a terrorist. France had eight attacks in a year and a half ago, 230 people died. The state's terror warning has been at its highest level. Between 2014 and 2016, there were terrorists in the background of Israel who killed in Europe. They surpassed all the terrorist attacks before. Most of the killers came from the European countries. This attack made me understand that there is no peace in this world. Terrorists are not targeting a certain country, a certain race or a certain religion. Everyone is likely to be its victim.  He came to Spain to meet the representatives of the Bolotn and decide the specific target of the 911 attack After seven weeks, he drove the first plane and hit the ground He came to Spain to meet the representatives of the Bolotn and decide the specific target of the 911 attack After seven weeks, he drove the first plane and hit the double-deck Since 1994, the Foundation has established the earliest and most important branch in Europe. Terrorism has been rooted in Europe for so long, it is so deep and broad, far beyond my imagination. In the first five years of the terrorist attack, 37.3% of the Spanish terrorists were immigrants, and 56.8% were immigrants from the second generation of the country. These people are not living in war or poverty. They were raised in Europe. How could they have such a harsh hatred for this land? It is chosen among millions of men to make them bleed. These terrorists were all following their parents when they were young and came to the small town of Spain, Liúbora. I want to see what happened there that caused such a bloody violence. (Mosley, Morocco) There are only 10,000 people in Lybon. They live in the salt river. The first generation of Moroccan immigrants started working in the forest and mine in the early 90s. There are about 700 Moslems working here.  This makes their hatred beyond understanding. Allah SWT with your money, prepares you to kill them. And by the will of Allah, every grain of this iron will be thrown into our heads, or the heads of your children or your wives. By the will of Allah, this is the will of Allah. Sometimes the head does not work well. I find a very hard fact, but I don't know where it escapes, The bus is getting crazy. We are giving them food, we are giving them everything and then they do that. Do you think they are hurt? Well, of course. Yes, because they have deceived us. They have deceived us. The attack was carried out by four brothers, the main plotter was three brothers. The Uyghurs, the Abouyakhs, were moving alone on the Lampra highway. The Yusuf al-Ala died in the bomb factory. The Mohammads led four brothers in the Kampur attack. This kind of brotherhood is the common model of global terrorist attacks. I want to know if this is the effect of a family. Mr. Mu, they are here. Do you know these two boys? Yes, but no. They live here, and the other one is upstairs. I want to meet their families, but they don't want to talk to me. This is painted on purpose. Youssef Alala. Some parents are not well, and have moved out of the town. Wafa is Li Boer's social worker, who is responsible for the welfare of the people. He is also the descendant of Mo Le. They are familiar with the families of the victims. Were their families fundamentalists? Are they radical people? No. No. No. Not even a little bit radical. Each one lives in the religion in the way he feels it. Their parents come from the poor Mologe mountains. They raised five children with the help of a mother who worked for them for a lifetime. In the news, he said, I hope he's alive. Don't let me answer him.   and they wouldn't use Arabic to get angry. They were doing the same thing at that time. It made them feel like they had doubts, like they had a feeling that they had to do it because there was a culture and a custom at home. The Islams are not allowed to drink, and they are not allowed to do sexual activity before marriage. But after they grow up, they drink, have girlfriends, and they are also poisoned. They are completely like young people living in the West. Before the attack, this is the last photo The last photo posted on social media This represents the end of his past life. He wrote, "Your mission is to discover new things." It has a full effect on him. The majority says yes. Yes, because since they arrived, they were boys who...  At the door, we met a man. He saw the reaction of the camera man was to reject. This is over. This is over. We don't want more nonsense. After making a clear misunderstanding, I understood his anger. Sa Di died in the explosion factory. He left all the pressure to this youth temple. But from the donation list, the main plotter who participated in the attack has not been to this Qinzhen Temple for at least a year. The attack plan is not here. And Sa Di appeared on the other side of the Qinzhen Temple. Did he talk about violence or hatred when he was in front of you before? No. After Sa Di was killed in an accident explosion In 2003, his roommate in Saudi Arabia also committed suicide in Iraq and 22 people died. The anti-terrorist party knew that he had been around for at least 10 years. But soon after, he entered the mosque in Libor, which is a little further away. No one told the Muslim community about these important information. That's why we have presented an official complaint to the government asking for explanations What has happened so that the community does not receive this information? Do you get the answer? No After Saadi came to Libor in 2015, these second-generation Muslim boys began to change But they don't seem to be violent anymore On the contrary, they started to stop smoking, drinking and going to the moon meetings and the parents were very happy. But in the video, Mohammed Haichami said, "The Lord praised him, and chose us among the millions, so that we could flow with blood." This sentence is a leap from religious spirituality to a terrible violence. Between these two, there should be a thousand good things. The first day of the operation The first day of the operation The first day of the operation Li Bo didn't find the plot of this attack Because the production of explosives is in Arcana, 300 kilometers away When I arrived in Arcana Standing at the door of the explosive factory I understand why they chose this place All these are damages All these are damages of the operation This house is stuck All this area This is the northernmost hill in the town a room that was abandoned for a long time There were many foreign guest houses around No one lived there The residents of the town told me the police had completely cleared this ruins After they agreed I entered the yard Everything has been destroyed Only this part of the ground remains You can see this original image The ground was dug out because this ground floor was full of danger At that time, the police found 19 simple hand grenades 1 suicide bomb bomb shell and 56 pillows. filled with TATP explosives have been all gone and began to paint the black flag of ISIS outside I thought such a large-scale attack must have come from overseas capital and technical support But the investigation proved these people had earned 3500 euros and used the materials on the Internet to self-destruct This terrible attack is known as religion but it is maintained by crime When I was in Libor I wanted to talk to a restaurant owner He refused at that time Can't you say it? No, I don't know anything about it. I don't know anything about it. I don't know anything about it. I only found out later that one of the terrorists, Saeed Alala, had worked in his restaurant, stole his jewelry, and used it to buy explosives. In Europe, 40% of the terrorist attacks come from drug trade, theft, fraud, bank loan fraud. I saw at least three or four similar women on the road. They were wearing black, leather pants, high heels and boots. They were standing at the intersection. They were all sitting on a chair and a big bottle of mineral water. It seemed like they were going to stand here for a long time. The driver told me that there were often some male workers on the N340 highway. I remember that I saw in the police investigation report that three senior officers made explosives during the day two months before the attack. The night was full of the commotion near the N340 highway in Arcana. I didn't expect it to be here. The terrorists claimed to be the so-called "war of the Islamic State". They claimed to implement the Islamic law and ban alcohol and drugs. The thieves were to be beheaded, the robbers were to be nailed to the cross, and the punishment for the illegal activities was to be executed. If these people really were named after the Islamists, How could they violate the most basic law? If they can't and don't want to follow the law, how could they die for something they don't believe in? Is this politics? In this waste of time, the terrorists call the enemy the "Poisonous" "Poisoner" "Inconceiver" "Poisoner" They are the soldiers on Andalusia's soil. The "Poisonous" army is a Christian army that has disappeared in the 14th century. It was 800 years ago that the Muslims ruled Andalusia. When did they live and who were they fighting against? Israel clearly forbade suicide. Muslims were given life as a pearl. They themselves thought it was a serious crime. How could these people think that killing and suicide could go to heaven? I'm going to die in hell, may Allah protect me from the evil The most surprising thing for me is this so-called terrorist mentor, Sadie. She died in a bomb explosion. The only victim was a ear. She didn't participate in the manufacture of explosives, and she didn't invest a penny. She never even planned to die. Before the attack, she emptied the apartment, moved all the money into the car and was ready to run away. and booked a flight ticket to fly to Belgium after two months of the attack. In the terrorist attack in Europe, almost no one invited to participate in the operation. They didn't plan to pay attention to their own propaganda. Sadie went to the factory two days before the original plan was implemented. The police guessed that it was her own explosion when she moved the explosive in the refrigerator. The center of the alarm is the location of the garage in front of me.从一个冰箱里开始的 The explosion was very powerful, so there was a lot of blood on the wall. All the glass shards of the 200-meter-long hotel were destroyed by the light. You can see the huge mushroom tree from a few kilometers away. (Continues in part 2) The plan did not stop. Abu Yakabou and his car hit the road. The other five people burned their passports. This ritual is called "No turning back". They put strange gold on their necks, with knives, running to Kabul. It was here that the last terrorist was confronted by the police. He was holding a fake pipe and trying to lure the police. I killed him. In fact, this is a knife pen. He used this knife to stab a tourist's face. It was too deep. Only the knife pen came out. I compared for a long time to confirm that this person is Omar Haichamid. The least mentioned person in this group. He is very strong. The colleagues of the agricultural company said he was correct, cautious, and completely integrated into Spain. What I was shocked about was that one-third of the people in this organization work and have good income. There are criminal records of those who are not Spanish. There are also high school students and minors. There were even two Spanish locals who were also Spanish. They have different personalities, different classes, different races. But why is it that once you enter this group, it's like you're infected with a certain virus. Everyone is left with the same miserable and wild face. There is no answer. What are the reasons and processes for these terrorists' agitation? Even the famous Spanish anti-terrorist experts think it's hard to explain. It's not education, it's not where they live, it's nothing related to social position or socioeconomic status when it comes to explaining radicalization. I've tried to forget this unanswered question. The old man said, "Don't talk about the terrorists. Continue your life. Leave the right to speak to the victim." But the victim, Hawei's father, had a hard time continuing his life. After the terrorist attack, he hugged the local mother-in-law who died in the war. The old man comforted him, "Don't be afraid. It's not your fault." But he hoped that everyone would not be silent and talk about him. Why would these boys who grew up among us do that? Who ordered it? He said, "When will people start looking for the truth? Can only I do it? A dead three-year-old boy's father, what training have I undergone? His words hit my heart. I am a stranger in Europe. I know almost nothing about his language, culture, and religion. But, I was the one who had been trained. I was trained for 20 years. No matter how evil and abnormal they look, people always act according to their own standards. No matter who they are, they are not gods or beasts. They are all people. They are just people. And people can be recognized. Through death, the terrorists refused to open their mouth. But this attack was all an imitation from start to finish. According to the phone records, the first video they shared after they established the organization was the 2015 French Charlie's gun attack. They made the same explosive in the Paris attacks in 1995. After the explosion plan failed, they imitated the attack method of the London Bridge car crash and knife cut. In fact, the reporter's actions are the same as the 9/11 and the Bataclan attacks. [Advertisement]  from the sky.