We've previously introduced many videos on neuroscience.
Reverse thinking, unlocking the brain, social nature
These neuroscience studies are all focused on the human brain.
However, in recent years, more and more studies have found
Humans actually have a second brain
It's the intestines
We believe that human emotions, memories, and stress are generated in the brain.
But in reality, the digestive system is constantly transmitting a large amount of information to the brain.
These new discoveries overturn many common sense facts.
It is very possible that the truth about human nature does not lie in the brain.
Instead, it's in the gut, the human's second brain.
What secret is hidden here?
In today's episode, we'll introduce...
This book by neuroscientist Emeran Mayer opened my eyes.
Gut, Brain, Gut Microbiota
Let's see how this second brain works.
The human gut is home to trillions of microorganisms and thousands of strains.
It resembles a complex microbial ecosystem.
All of these gut bacteria combined weigh as much as the brain.
Like an independent organ
Recently, scientists have discovered
There is actually a "gut-brain axis" between the gut and the brain.
Like a highway
It is a two-way communication system
How should we communicate?
Scientists have discovered a type of gut hormone called "gut peptides".
It's like microbial language that can be used to communicate with the brain.
The brain can make instructions based on information provided by the digestive system.
For example, it might tell the brain that the food is poisonous and needs to be vomited up.
This phenomenon exists not only in humans, but also in other animals.
For example, frogs have intestinal peptides on their skin.
It contains information about defending against natural enemies.
If the bird ate the frog
These molecules are then released in the bird's intestines.
Make the bird feel nauseous and make it vomit up.
???
In other words, frogs and birds actually share the same language.
It is gut peptides
This allows the bird's stomach to receive a message saying it cannot eat this.
Thinking about it carefully, this is actually quite amazing.
Because if not only humans, but other living beings can also use this language.
That suggests that these message molecules may have an even more ancient origin.
The author of this book published a study in 1990.
The question is titled "Are Gut Peptides a Universal Biological Language?"
As early as the first 3.1 billion years after the birth of the Earth
Microorganisms have already developed molecules for transmitting information.
Like an ancient language
After marine life appeared on Earth
These microorganisms then inhabit their bodies.
They surround their intestines, forming a symbiotic relationship.
Microorganisms hide in the intestines to absorb nutrients.
Marine organisms can utilize the gut peptides provided by these microorganisms.
To digest food, avoid toxic foods.
This mutually beneficial symbiotic relationship developed millions of years ago
It is very likely the prototype of the human brain and gut.
Our gut bacteria are actually parasites hiding in the human body.
Obtain a continuous supply of food from the host.
It also assists in the host's gut health and development.
Develop an immune system to identify and eliminate dangerous bacteria.
Let the host know which foods are safe to eat.
in other words
The gut of each of us holds evidence of life coexisting and mutually beneficial symbiosis.
This has led some scientists to propose a bold hypothesis.
Is it possible that the human body is merely a medium through which gut bacteria reside?
We all thought the brain controlled other organs.
But the truth may be quite the opposite.
In fact, it is the gut microbiota that manipulates the human brain.
Let humans find the food they like to eat.
So when you are hungry
Gut bacteria will then send messages to the brain
Makes you angry and irritable.
The body is like a car
The human brain is merely a controlled driver.
The gut bacteria are the ones truly giving orders from behind the scenes.
So when a driver drives recklessly...
When doing things that are not in the interests of gut bacteria
It will make people sick.
Gut bacteria send messages to the immune system
It makes your stomach inflamed.
Or send a message to the brain
It makes you feel unwell and depressed.
Scientists used to think that the gut was only for digesting food.
However, more and more experiments have found
The gut microbiota can actually influence mood and personality.
Because the composition of gut microbiota affects neurotransmitters and immune responses.
Therefore, a person's emotions, stress response, sleep, and cognition...
All will be affected
For example, the human body has a "happy hormone" called serotonin.
90% is secreted in the intestines.
This can affect a person's mood stability, appetite, sleep, and cognitive function.
Another happy hormone, dopamine
50% of it is secreted in the intestines.
Responsible for regulating a person's attention and energy
Gut bacteria can also contribute through metabolic pathways
It generates a neurotransmitter called GABA.
To relax the brain and stabilize emotions
Many anti-anxiety medications or stress-relieving health products
They are all actually imitating the effects of GABA.
2013
A research team from UCLA published a study
They had healthy subjects
Drink probiotic yogurt every day for four consecutive weeks
Brain scans after the procedure revealed
Compared to the placebo control group
Compared to the placebo control group
Subjects who drank probiotics showed improvement when faced with emotional stimuli.
The brain regions associated with fear and anxiety showed significantly reduced responses.
In other words
It only changes the composition of the gut microbiota.
It can regulate the emotional circuits in the brain.
Make the brain more emotionally stable
Scientists also discovered
Gut microbiota are also associated with depression.
An experiment involved having mice swim to stimulate their stress systems.
Increase the level of inflammatory molecules in the blood of mice
However, if mice are given probiotics...
Their blood changes will be regulated
The effect is the same as antidepressants.
Similar results have been found in human clinical trials.
A double-blind trial in France
55 participants were recruited.
Take probiotics for one month
turn out
Compared to the placebo control group who did not take the medication
People who take it
Scores for both anxiety and depression decreased significantly.
At the same time, it was also discovered
Their urine cortisol levels decreased
This indicates a weakened physiological response to stress.
Probiotics sound amazing!
But in fact
Only a few strains can be used to regulate mood and brain nerve health.
Scientists call them
Psychobiotic
Professor Tsai Ying-chieh, the father of probiotics in Taiwan
He led the team from Yangming University in Taiwan
A PS128 probiotic strain has been developed.
Recognized by top medical institutions worldwide
A 2021 experiment found
After consuming PS128 probiotics for 8 weeks, Taiwanese tech engineers...
It can significantly reduce the stress hormone cortisol
Improve their stress, anxiety and insomnia
90% of the participants felt their mood improved.
Daytime work change positive
Another study by the Sleep Research Center of National Chiao Tung University also found...
If insomnia subjects aged 20-40 are given a 30-day continuous period
Taking PS128 probiotics
It can reduce their anxiety and depression symptoms.
Regulating the function of the autonomic nervous system
It can also increase the deep sleep stage
Improve sleep quality
Besides regulating emotions
Even more amazing is
Gut microbiota are actually related to personality.
An animal experiment in 2021
Two groups of rats were found
A group of dominant mice with lively personalities.
The other group consists of timid, obedient mice.
Scientists analyzed the gut bacteria of dominant mice
Transplanted into obedient mice
Unexpectedly, a few weeks later
These mice changed their behavior patterns.
She has become more lively and sociable.
in other words
Gut microbiota can determine personality.
When gut microbiota changes
Personality will change accordingly
These new studies
This greatly challenges our past common sense.
We used to think
If you have symptoms of depression or anxiety
There's something wrong with the brain.
But scientists now believe
Gut microbiota may play a key role
The author proposes a very interesting theory.
He believes in the diversity of gut microbiota
It has a clear relationship with brain diseases.
Because gut microbiota are the main regulators of the immune system.
When a person is born
The number of gut bacteria is very low.
Therefore, children usually have lower immunity.
Until adulthood
The number of gut bacteria reaches its peak
It also happens to be the prime of a person's life.
In old age
The number of gut bacteria in the human body decreases
Therefore, they are prone to many neurodegenerative diseases in their later years.
Such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease
It's probably all due to changes in gut microbiota.
A study by Yangming University in Taiwan found
If given to mice suffering from a condition similar to Parkinson's disease...
Take the probiotic PS128
It can prevent dopamine neuron atrophy
May help prevent Parkinson's disease
In fact, since ancient times
Many cultures believe that the root of disease is gut problems.
Ancient Egyptian royalty even appointed certain individuals as "rectal guardians."
Enema for the royal family
The ancient Greek physician Hippocrates even said, "All diseases originate in the intestines."
This idea persisted until the Middle Ages.
It wasn't until the advent of modern neuroscience that...
People gradually shifted their focus to the brain.
And the relationship between the digestive system and the nervous system has been forgotten.
But in the past decade
These studies have regained attention.
The scientific community has begun to think
The human psyche may not be controlled by the brain.
It is the gut microbiota that controls it.
Besides affecting emotions
Scientists have recently made an even more surprising discovery.
Early life pressure
It may permanently alter a person's gut-brain genetic programming.
Even after growing up
The body may still be living in the memories of past stress.
The authors used brain neuroimaging
A study of 180 people who had experienced negative early life experiences
Look at what their brains look like.
turn out
Even seemingly healthy adults
Their brain structure has also been altered long ago.
The neural activity that assesses bodily sensations has also changed.
Make these people more sensitive to stress
Their intestines seem to be programmed to be
We must always be ready to confront the dangers this world brings.
The childhood setting will continue into adulthood.
They are more prone to anxiety
If the mother herself is under pressure
Children's brains are also more sensitive to stress.
Why?
Because fundamental changes occur long before birth.
If the mother is under a lot of stress during pregnancy
Compared to pregnant women in a stable environment
Newborn babies have fewer beneficial bacteria in their gut.
Moreover, the higher the stress during pregnancy
The fewer beneficial bacteria in an infant's gut...
The more likely it is to cause inflammation
That is to say, while in the mother's womb
Each person's gut-brain structure is already pre-designed.
High-stress environments can leave chemical markers on a baby's genes.
Change their future stress response system
This is why two different people
Suffering the same pressure
There may be completely different reactions
One person might not think it's a big deal
However, it may trigger gastrointestinal reactions in another person.
I feel stomach pain and have insomnia.
Because the initial settings were already different.
Therefore, some gastroenterologists now, when seeing patients...
They will ask patients about their experiences before the age of 18.
Ask them if they felt they had a happy childhood.
The result was that they all discovered
Many adults have stomach problems
In fact, all of these can be traced back to high-pressure experiences in childhood.
This certainly doesn't mean that childhood determines everything.
Adults can still make some changes.
How can we change this?
It depends on dietary habits
The last key factor affecting gut-brain development
It's about eating habits
A 2012 cross-cultural study compared
The Yanomami people, the indigenous people of the Amazon rainforest
And the gut bacteria of Americans
turn out
Americans have one-third less gut microbiota diversity.
Why?
This actually reflects the dietary habits of indigenous societies and industrial societies.
Modern diets consist mainly of processed foods.
High sugar and high fat
It will reduce the abundance of gut microbiota.
But the Yanomami people, the indigenous people of the Amazon rainforest
Never use salt
Maintain a low-sodium diet
Staple foods are all plant-based
Meat only makes up a small portion of their diet.
Because of the rich biodiversity in the forest
Therefore, the plants they eat are also very diverse.
This leads to a diverse range of gut bacteria.
This gives the Yanomami people the healthiest gut microbiota on Earth.
In comparison
Since the 1970s
Large-scale overexploitation of agriculture under capitalism
This has led to a decrease in biodiversity in developed countries.
People's dietary choices are becoming increasingly limited.
From an evolutionary perspective
This is actually a very surprising change.
Human ancestors had a very diverse diet during the hunter-gatherer era.
The meat they eat is mostly lean meat.
Wild birds, fish
Moreover, hunter-gatherers are constantly moving.
The calories are easily burned off.
However, after the emergence of modern industrial civilization
Processed foods began to appear
Profit-oriented capital enterprises
In food
Adding high-sugar, high-calorie foods can be addictive.
But modern people are mostly confined to offices.
Unlike our human ancestors who were constantly moving
These changes in dietary habits occurred within the last 100 years.
Evolution has not had enough time to adjust our physiological systems.
The result is
This dietary habit began to damage people's brains and bodies.
When people eat high-fat meals
Or soft drinks with artificial flavorings
This will begin to disrupt the balance of the gut microbiota.
Once the bacterial community is imbalanced
Inflammatory substances in the body will rise.
The gut immune system enters a low-inflammatory mode
It will reduce your satiety response.
So you'll keep eating.
Makes the inflammation worse
This creates a vicious cycle of overeating and inflammation.
Even if you don't gain weight
In the long run, this may also have an impact on health.
But why are people so prone to addiction to these processed foods?
Scientists once conducted an experiment
Transplanting gut bacteria from obese mice into lean mice
As a result, lean mice also developed the same metabolic characteristics.
He started eating and drinking without restraint.
in other words
Gut bacteria are the unseen driving force behind our appetite and brain activity.
Therefore, one group of scientists even proposed a hypothesis.
Humans are particularly prone to addiction to these processed foods.
It's possible that gut bacteria are deliberately manipulating people's eating habits.
For example, not being able to eat certain specific foods
It's frustrating.
Until after eating these foods
Only after his emotions returned to normal
This means that gut bacteria sacrifice the host's health.
To enhance one's adaptability to the environment.
Finally, the author will provide several methods for maintaining gut health.
We can think of the gut as an ecosystem.
The prosperity and health of an ecosystem
Depends on its biodiversity
The human digestive system is also an ecosystem
Health depends on the diversity of gut microbiota.
If diversity is insufficient
Other bacteria can easily invade the intestines.
People are more prone to illness
If diversity is high
People with higher immunity
The recovery ability will also be stronger.
So how can we increase the diversity of gut microbiota?
First, reduce the amount of animal fat in your diet.
Because of the human gut-brain structure
It hasn't evolved to be able to digest too much animal fat.
Excessive intake can damage the brain.
The author particularly admires the Mediterranean diet.
The traditional diet of Mediterranean countries is low in meat.
They mostly eat olive oil, red wine, and vegetables.
These are all foods that can reduce inflammation.
Another method is to eat more fermented foods.
Fermented dairy products, yogurt, kimchi, miso
These foods are all rich in probiotics.
It can help maintain the diversity of gut microbiota.
The third method is fasting.
This is similar to giving your gut system a thorough cleaning.
The sensory mechanisms of gut-brain communication can be reset.
It's somewhat similar to restarting the computer.
The last suggestion is
Make sure you feel happy while eating.
Memories generated by happy emotions
It causes the brain to send signals to the gut.
It affects the gut.
People from Mediterranean countries eat
They often spend several hours eating a meal with family and friends.
On the surface it seems like a waste of time
However, from the perspective of creating happy emotions...
Actually, this type of meal is very good for the gut.
A healthy gut leads to a healthy brain.
And a rich variety of beneficial gut bacteria
This is a key factor in gut health.
In addition to a healthy diet, exercise, and regular lifestyle habits
You can also supplement with PS128 probiotics.
PS128 can regulate the levels of serotonin and dopamine, among other "happy hormones," in the body.
Not only does it help reduce inflammation index
It can also help regulate mood, relieve stress, and improve sleep quality.
Allow your mind and body to truly relax and achieve balance
This strain was developed by the team of Professor Tsai Ying-chieh, a leading authority on probiotics.
Gaining international academic recognition
Hailed as a representative of combining Taiwan's scientific research strength with global medical standards
Bringing modern people more scientifically based new choices for physical and mental health.