Fang or Mang jobs are still the crown jewel of tech careers, the gold standard, the dream. Or is it? Let's look closely exactly what you're dreaming of because the fantasy of working at Google or Meta looks very different from the day-to-day reality. And also, let's look whether it's even possible to get it at this point because I'm sure many of you have tried tens of times, paid for coaches, for interview prep, but that led you nowhere. Here is what we'll cover today. What people really do at Fang in 2025, the pros and cons of getting into Fang as an early grad or early career professional, myths about Fang quality talent, and whether it's feasible to get into fang in 2025. This video series is for tech professionals already living and working in the US, Canada, the UK, or the European Union. If you're based outside these regions or in an outsourcing heavy market, the data in this video will not apply to your situation. I do not cover immigration, international job hunting, or topics like how to break into tech without a college degree. If that's what you're here for, this probably isn't the right channel, and that's okay. But if you are operating within these markets, keep watching. There's a lot ahead for various seniority levels and career tracks in tech. Starting with what people really do at Fang. Fang is often presented as the best companies for tech talent, where you'd be doing the most interesting work and intellectually stimulating work and getting your hands on the technology that becomes best-in-class for the rest of the world. Fang was the first to introduce those crazy hard multi-step interviews that so many career coaches build businesses upon, teaching others how to get through those interviews. Those interviews have driven enough people to the point of self-destruction after they have been refused a job after 4 months of hardcore interviews. I've been wanting to film this video for a long time as I myself have tried getting into a fang for years and never succeeded. The number of times I have been referred is probably close to 100. And sometimes I had stronger referrals that took my resumes to the hiring managers. The hiring manager would look and say, "This is a very strong resume, an excellent experience. We will definitely give her a call." And nothing. I still don't know if I'd be able to pass the interview because I've never even gotten to the first round. Now, cue the comments. You're just bitter because you didn't make it. Sure, let me save you the trouble. Go ahead and drop that one below. I'll wait. Everybody knows experience at Fang is cool, but how much do we really know what people do there? Let's take Google as an example. Although everything I will be saying applies to all of the fang companies, Google makes most of their technology in-house because it works better for them and they want to sell it to the rest of the world and that's the core of their business model. Amazon does the same. I want to emphasize that the beauty of fang jobs is that they build their own technology. So as an employee, you get your hands on building the building blocks versus apps or products that are based on those building blocks. That is rare. That's what's really attractive about Fang. Google search, Google Analytics, Google Cloud Wallets. Google has multiple product verticals serving both B2B and B2C ecosystems. It's a gigantic company with employees supporting all of those products. and they have reached the company size of 180,000 employees. You can probably guess that if you happen to land a job there, chances are the work you're going to be doing will be focused on supporting some of those products. And there is zero guarantee that you will be put on something really cool and exciting and not Gmail maintenance or some Android maintenance feature. Now, there are highstakes, high-budget projects like Google Quantum and the Willow Chip. But let's be real, those teams are staffed by researchers and PhDs, not just machine learning engineers, but actual AI scientists. I personally would love to work on a quantum product. I'm not a physicist, but I studied chemistry at uni, and I've always been drawn to science-driven tech. I've applied to a few quantum PM roles, even landed interviews, but in every case I was told you need a physics background. And to that, I'd say, look, you're asking for a highly improbable combination. You're asking for a seasoned PM with years in SAS who happens to have a degree in quantum physics. I am close. I've got the experience, and I studied chemistry, which isn't physics, but it's not too far. And I'm more than willing to learn the basics of quantum physics if it's required for the job because I really like that stuff. Still a no. Why am I saying all of this? Because when you see that somebody works at Fang, don't be like, "Oh my god, they must be a genius." They're not the scrappy labs they used to be in 2000s or 2010s. And while they absolutely built some of the world's most powerful infrastructure, the reality is many roles focus on maintaining and scaling existing systems, not launching the next moonshot. That doesn't make the work easy, but it's often incremental, boring, and low impact. And let's be honest, nobody wants to admit that they spend their days tuning dashboards or triaging permission bugs in Gmail. With a logo like that on the resume, the expectation is that you're changing the world. So the ego plays a huge role too. Now onto the pros and cons of getting into fang as an early grad. If you're getting into fang early in your career and years later fang is all you know, you're signing up for quite a limited skill set because everything you know is tied to the company you worked for because your company is the one developing the technology that you're using. You have no idea what's happening in the outside world. This is the number one reason why people voluntarily leave Google or companies like Google given they weren't poached. And this is also the biggest risk to those who get laid off. Sure, your market value goes up because of those logos, but the skill set is objectively limited. Another thing, when you join such a massive org since the early days of your career, and it's not just fang, this applies to any large corp, you will inevitably face the following situation. You will have tens of people on your team doing very specific tasks. You will have tens of supporting teams. So let's take my case as product management. As a PM at a massive org, I have business analysts, product owners, project managers, product ops, product analysts, all doing supporting work to help me release a product. My scope of work and my impact is very small by definition. And on one hand you may argue well if all those people are doing the tactical work for you you can concentrate on efforts doing really difficult product work like figuring out what to build or how the product will fit into your product ecosystem or which markets to break into how to expand product verticals things like that. And to that I'll say well not really because you have levels over levels of management above you and you're not going to be the one making those decisions. All of that stuff will come top down. Let's be real. So, you don't get to experience what it's like to have a big impact. You don't ever get to share the same level of responsibility that someone who doesn't have all of those supporting teams. You get used to doing work only when you have 100 people supporting you. And god forbid they put you on a smaller team or at a smaller company where you don't have those functions simply because there is no budget. You're going to be very lost. So in my humble opinion, Fang is really worth it when you are midcareer and you have seen your job at different stages of the company size spectrum. Fang is no longer at a stage where everything they do becomes a pioneer in the world of tech. They're very mature and very big for that kind of stuff. Now there is only a small fraction of people doing some really worldchanging stuff. But all the stereotypes you've heard about fang people being exceptionally smart and exceptionally talented, every single one of them is quite dated at this point. Cutting edge innovation you're thinking about is often done at very promising and hyperrowing startups and unicorns these days. Now salaries, sure, if you get in, you will be making more money than pretty much anyone else of the same skill level, but working for a smaller company simply because Fang does pay very well. There's no doubt about it. A large percentage of their comp is RSUs and their stocks go up in price. But will you be making millions? Probably not. On to the myths about Fang quality talent. A lot of people say that working at Fang often means that you're going to be working with the brightest minds on the planet. It is true. Fang is full of people that are truly bright and can build mindblowing things. But is everybody like that? In my experience, I have seen people who were mediocre at best when we worked together and then they would put in the twoe notice and two weeks later their company changes to one of the fang logos. So, on one hand, you're like, "Wow, I don't know how you pulled that off, but good for you. Well, I wasn't able to do that." But then a month after they're gone, turns out that the amount of mistakes that they left after themselves, the amount of broken stuff that they left in the code and the amount of mess that they left for everyone else to fix post their departure is just, let's just say it's not the kind of stuff that you expect from someone who got accepted into Fang. So what does that tell you? You can get really good at the interview prep. If you're a PM, you can go through hundreds or thousands of product cases or system design questions. If you're a dev, you can spend hundreds of hours lead coding. And yes, you can objectively do very well in an interview. But does that make you exceptional at your job? To me, not really. Because no matter how hard the interview is, the vast majority of them follow a framework. And if you do them for hundreds of hours over and over again, you can get really good at solving pretty much any interview problem. Fang has grown up. There are so many ex Googlers, ex meta, ex Netflix at this point that they're not that rare anymore. Those additions to your name on LinkedIn after a comma were really sexy 5 years ago, but now they're kind of everywhere. The hardest thing about getting into thank is the interviews themselves. And while you can spend months prepping for it and you can be truly good at those interviews, you may also come across an interviewer who's just not feeling their best that day and they simply don't like you. And that's it. you're done. You're not going to get the job. Does that make you stupid? Hell no. Sure, Fang has excellent talent, but so do other companies ranging from small startups all the way to tier one. In fact, some of the brightest and most hardworking PMs and engineers that I've ever worked with were startup talent, not Fang. Another story from personal experience, and this was years back, it was announced that we hired a Fang PM. And all PMs on my team were like, "Okay guys, let's pack our bags. This person will rip us apart." Because none of us at the time were from any sort of big company. We were all busting our asses to make it in the hyper competitive tech building a killer product with the most minimal resources. And the product was doing really really well for its niche. But all of us were so insecure about ourselves with this new person coming in. So long story short, they couldn't write a single technical ticket without assistance. They had no idea how to do market research or competitive research. They had no idea how to deal with engineering. They had no idea how to guide a designer. They were the nicest person, but all of their prior experience was Google, Meta, Pinterest, Twitter, and Microsoft. And they always had tens of supporting people doing this work for them. Another thing that became really obvious after the layoffs when the talent pool became so big and directors even at smaller companies now have a choice between multiple candidates, many of them coming from Fang. What they often notice and what I've seen on various Slack channels and even on Reddit is that they say how when they start interviewing people who come from Fang and whose entire career is well built at Fang, how they often do a lot worse during interviews than someone who comes from a startup environment. not on these standard questions. How do you build a new product for YouTube kind of question, but when you ask very real practical questions about the product work that happens on a daily basis, startup and scale up PMs often outperform Fang. Now, is it feasible to get into Fang if you're not coming from a tier one logo? Who has the best shot? People who went to universities that have internship programs with Fang? So, in Canada, it's usually the University of Wateroo, sometimes uft. In the US, it's Stanford, Harvard, Princeton, Georgia Tech. That is the only real way to get in early. Are you that bright and that exceptional or that experienced at 23 years of age, but they got to hire someone to do the maintenance of all of those products that they built. Number two, your resume must be comprised of tier one logos. Now, even if you weren't that great of a PM or a data scientist, but you happen to have Snap, Twitch, Discord, Pinterest on the resume, you will have a much higher chance simply because you're coming from tier one. Once you enter tier one, you start jumping from one company to another. I spoke about this in the video about California. Tier one often feels like a closed private old school club. You got to get in to start making those moves. Sometimes you're in because you're really good. Sometimes you're in because you were lucky to be in the right place at the right time around the right people. Number three, you have a very niche expertise in a very specific subject. For example, quantum physics and quantum product development. There simply isn't many people on the planet who can demonstrate success in that discipline. and they would be looking at your academic research publications, at the grants you've won, at all of the academia achievements that you have shown throughout your career. Now, cold applying to FAGN without a referral has less than.5% chance of being opened. But even if you have a referral, like I told you, I had plenty of referrals. I have referrals who would quite literally take my resume and put it on the director's desk, that's still a very low chance. When it comes to Fang, you either wait to be head-h hunted or you got to have connections on very senior levels that have hiring power. But like I said, Fang is no longer what it used to be 20 years ago. Now it's a massive bureaucratic machine. And I have personally spoken to people who are at very senior levels and can refer and can interview you if they know you personally. But they would often admit that listen, I have 200 candidates that are internal that I must interview before you. We can have beers. We can have a great chat. I know you're a great person, but I must interview the following 200 people who have applied internally. The company will not let me hire you no matter how good you are. That is the reality of Fang. So, even with referrals, nothing is guaranteed. I made a very detailed video talking about how exactly referrals work at big companies. It's a little long, but I was trying to be as detailed as possible. Now, who should not expect miracles? Even if you are objectively very skilled, but your resume is made up of small logos, not going to happen. No matter how good you are, the chances of you making it are non-existent. If you live outside a country where Fang has offices now, despite the fact that Fang definitely has budgets for relocation, they've done it a lot and they do it frequently, it is very hard to get noticed by them. You either have to be head-h hunted or you have to be noticed by the people who have the hiring power for your line of work. And that visibility typically comes to you if you're either building something that gets a lot of attention at unicorns or tier one companies or you work at a very promising startup that is being sold to a bigger company and the deal gets a lot of attention on media. And you got to be realistic. Anyone can apply. Hundreds of thousands of people submit their resumes on the websites. Hundreds of thousands already have tier one and tier 2 logos on the resume. You cannot be expecting miracles even by sending hundreds of applications. You have to look for the unfair advantage and often times it comes to you through your geographic location. As I said before, I have been working hard for years. I have never chased titles over experiences. For years, I would pick up jobs at the companies where I knew I would have to work around the clock to get that product off the ground because I thought, well, if I can do that, I'd be unbeatable as a PM and Fang will all of a sudden want me because, well, that kind of skill set is hard to beat. And in my 9 years of tech, I've been grinding like a maniac to have top-notch experience and top-notch education and top-notch professional training. I've invested so much of my time and money into it. But what I did not do early on is I did not invest in the right network and in the right location because I did not chase the logos. It probably made me a strong PM because I have been through some very rough scale up experiences. But pivoting my resume from a scaleup PM to at least a tier 2 company level PM was very difficult. And all of that happened while I watched some of my university classmates the right contacts and land internships at tier 1. and then two years later they're a PM at Meta and I'd be looking like how did that happen to land a job like that and the answer is simple for some it's a combination of the right contacts efforts invested in the interview prep not mastering the craft all I want to say is that if you blew that interview or if you're like me and never even got a chance at an interview it's not because you're not good enough the world doesn't end at fang and you can land much better compensations at promising scaleups I hope this was helpful I would love to hear your thoughts and feedback and we'll see you next time. Bye.