Hi everybody, Steve Pacin here and welcome to another edition of TVO Today Live. Here's a quote for starters. A country that cannot feed itself, fuel itself, or defend itself has few options. That's what Prime Minister Mark Carney said at his now famous speech at Davos. Today we are here on the grounds of the Vineland Institute on the southwestern end of Lake Ontario about half an hour east of Hamilton to focus on Canada feeding itself. We're going to hear from across the agricultural and agra food sector on how to make this country a food superpower with options. Before we start, we want to remember that these TVO Today live episodes are all possible thanks to the generosity of the Wilson Foundation and in particular Red Wilson who died earlier this year. Mr. Wilson was a big fan of this show. He was always very supportive of it. We remember his singular contribution to making these shows happen every time we turn the microphones or the cameras on. Thank you, Red Wilson. Now, our format today is going to be a little bit different as we want to hear from as many people in this sector as possible. And so, we have not got a what you might call traditional panel here today. Our panel is going to be Sheldon Widshot. Thank you. Yes. The whole audience. The whole audience are the guests on this show. And we're going to cover four main themes. where agriculture is right now, what people are doing to thrive today, what the biggest challenges are, and what role innovation can play in taking us to the next level. So, with all of that in place, let's get going. Shelton, I'm going to ask you again if you can give me a wide shot here so we can see the whole room. I want to start with a show of hands because we're going to do a little quick snappy poll here. Okay. It has never been a better time than now to be in agriculture. Hands up. Who agrees with that? No kidding. Hands down. Who disagrees with that statement? Nobody. You all think this is now the best time to be in agriculture. Wow. If you watch the news, you would never get that impression. So, we got to we got to figure this out a little more. Let's start here. Drew Spolster, I want to go to you first. Stand if you would. You're the president of the Ontario Federation of Agriculture. give us the view from 30,000 feet as to why every person in this room just voted the way they voted.
>> Well, thanks for having us, Steve, and uh and thanks for having this conversation about agriculture and the importance of it in Ontario and Canada and beyond. Uh I think everyone in agriculture is an optimist and has to be an optimist to uh move their business forward, to continue to grow every year, day in day out and uh and do the best they can on their farms. And I think that's why you saw everybody put their hand up in this room. I think that there are a ton of challenges in this industry. Uh a lot that we're facing right now because of things that are out of our control. But there's a heck of a lot of opportunity too. And if we have the right conditions and the right tools in our toolbox to move the industry forward, I think we can do that. And that's where I think u that's why there's so much optimism in this room.
>> I reacted with so much surprise because every time I talk to a farmer, the weather's never good enough. The equipment is never working well enough. My kids are never pitching in well enough as much as I want them to. Like they they don't take this the wrong way. Farmers do complain from time to time about a few things here and there. So why so much optimism in this room?
>> Yeah. Again, it's we do this job because we love it, I think, and that's why people are optimistic about it. They're optimistic about the the opportunities going forward in the future. They're optimistic about growth in their industry, in their business itself. And uh you know, we go out, most of us go out, we plant things in the spring and and take it through to harvest and hope for a better result at the end of the year. And I think uh you know, that's where a lot of that that passion in the room comes from and that optimism for the industry.
>> You're in Binbrook, which is not far from here.
>> That's right.
>> What do you grow?
>> I grow corn, soybeans, wheat, and hay. We milk cows. We have beef cattle around, and we have uh a whole bunch of Clydesdale horses as well.
>> How's business?
>> Uh well, it's tricky right now. Uh we're we're facing a lot of challenges uh because of things that are out of control. Number one is the weather. It's uh turning into a late spring. We had a pretty rough winter that we went through. It just keeps raining out there and uh and we haven't had any uh glimmers of hope yet for spring. Um we're facing a lot of uncertainty because of trade and the challenges that again are out of our control coming from the United States. Uh we're facing a lot of uncertainty in the fuel prices and fertilizer prices and our cost of production continues to climb and we're not seeing uh we're not seeing prices climb on the other end of the pro the products that we're marketing.
>> Drew, those sound like seven or eight good reasons not to think things are so good in agriculture right now.
>> Yeah,
>> we really need to get our head around the notion that you folks still think it is a good time to be in this business. What am I not getting? I think most of us in the room think it's the best industry to be in in the world and uh and that's why we all put our hands up about it being a great time to be in agriculture.
>> Good. Thanks for your contribution. You bet.
>> Appreciate you getting us started here. Where's uh John Cranfield, dean of the Ontario Agricultural School. Grab the mic from Drew if you would.
>> How are farmers doing right now in your view?
>> Well, I think to Drew's point, they're optimistic, but they are struggling. Uh you know, there's things that are out of their control. Uh they can't control the weather. we can control how we respond to it. They can't control what's happening south of the border. They can control how they respond to it. So I think for farmers right now it's what can we control and what's in our wheelhouse to actually affect positive change on our farms. So part of that I think is thinking about okay given where we are how do we think about not just this year but also next year three years down the road and five years down the road that the era of the Trump tariffs I don't think is going to go away and so we need to be thinking more about east west trade instead of north south trade and also thinking about making sure that we can continue to feed ourselves.
>> There are still or I should ask are there still lots of young people who want to enroll in your post-secondary institution and learn about this sector?
>> Yes, but there aren't enough. there's going to be a shortage of workers in agriculture of about 100,000 people in the country. So programs like the seasonal farm worker and temporary farm worker programs are critically important to the functioning effective functioning of of agriculture. But what's changing is the needs of those students who are coming into the sector and are then going to be graduating and going into the industry. It's a high-tech sector. It's a STEMbased field. Uh doesn't matter whether you're dealing with crops, livestock, horiculture, soil science, it's it's it's STEM driven. We know from a few years ago that for every graduate from our college, the Ontario Agricultural College, there were four jobs waiting for them. And what we did in that study was we took out minimum wage paying jobs and hourly jobs, so salary jobs at first career step. So there's lots of opportunity. That number is now quite dated and the sector's grown considerably. So my hunch is that it's probably closer to 5 to one.
>> I keep hearing farmers on average are too old. Is that right?
>> Well, it depends on how old you are, I think. Um I you know it it it's an interesting question because it gets down to the structure of farm ownership. So there's the person who's actually running the farm managing the farm, but then there's also the farm owner and those aren't always the same person. And so the ownership structure might be a bit older than than the average Canadian, but that doesn't mean that there aren't young people coming into the sector and younger people running those farms.
>> We may have some here today. Who's a young farmer here? Can I see a show hands? Okay. Can I get a microphone to this lady here? Would you care to share your Well, whether you care to or not, doesn't matter. I'd like you to please tell us who you are, where you're from.
>> Hi, I'm Jessica Soleni. I'm a grape grower here in Niagara on the Lake.
>> Jessica, you put your hand up when we ask is it a good is this the best time to be in agriculture?
>> Um, well like like farmers like we say are optimistic. Um, I also think there's a lot of momentum. So for our side on like the grape growing side and the wine side, there's a lot of support for Ontario grown products and 100% Ontario grown grapes. So this was actually the first harvest in three harvests that we sold all our grapes. We used to have to Yeah. So that was it was a good harvest to celebrate. So there's a lot of momentum in our industry, but then there's a lot of possibility for change. So as long as there's support for young farmers like myself and another grape grower here, Will, I think we'll keep that optimistic going.
>> What do you worry about?
>> I worry about the weather. We have a lot of tying to do and it's warm, so the cool weather is a little bit we're looking tiny bit forward to that. Um the weather, um uncertainty with trade. Um there's a lot of great federal and provincial programs that we have in our sector. uh making sure they'll stay around for the long term and that they're also planned for. Unfortunately, the way things go, they're usually two to fiveyear programs and it's hard to plan a vineyard like that, especially when it takes five years to get a full crop when you first plant a vineyard and it's about a 30 to $40,000 investment per acre.
>> Are do you own the farm?
>> No. Um it's that succession is interesting, but we're working towards that. Um it's myself and I have four siblings on the farm. Um, out of five of us, four have joined the farm. So, I think my dad's pretty happy.
>> Very cool. That's That's unusual, isn't it? I mean, you've got unusual buyin among the family there. Y
>> Yeah. Well done. Okay. Thanks.
>> Uh, who else? Who's another young farmer here who wants to Okay, we got a microphone in the back here, please.
>> There we go. If you wouldn't mind, introduce yourself and tell us where you farm.
>> I'm Nikki Scott and I uh I'm a farmer with my two brothers um from the Hamilton area. We grow potatoes.
>> And are you second generation in the farm?
>> We are fourth generation.
>> You're fourth generation.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Tell us a bit about that. How did it start?
>> Um my great-grandfather bought in 1915 in the area. Um he was mainly um cattle actually and then uh my grandfather took over from that, continued uh the cattle industry and then went into um vegetables and did strawberries and potatoes for close market, usually the the Hamilton farmers market. Uh my father took over after him. Uh dropped the cattle kind of when I came along. Uh I told him I had to get rid of the cows if we wanted to keep going with the vegetables because of food safety purposes. Um so we uh got rid of a lot of the cattle at that point. Um and he did mainly potatoes. Uh we do have some other crops as well. When my brothers took over um that's 15 or 20 years ago now, uh we changed from we still have potatoes. potatoes have always been our our base crop. Um, but we've gotten into onions recently and then small herbs like uh cilantro and dill um venue Greek.
>> How's business?
>> It's challenging. Um like all the other farmers here will say that we love it. Um it is it's in your blood for sure. I went away from the farm for a few years and uh then begged to come back um and said like I just I can't handle the the corporate life. I much more prefer to work with my family. So, um, and when I say family, we've got on our farm, we have, um, lots of extended family as well. I've got aunts, I've got uncles, I've got cousins, um, that all work on the farm with us. So, um, it's it's a true farm operation and family operation.
>> Wonderful. Is there another generation below you that you think will go in?
>> There is. There's So, between my brothers and I, we have seven um, kids uh, that are um, all kind of a part of it. Um, my son's a little bit younger. He's uh 16 now. Um and he's doing lawn maintenance for us um for the summer. Um my oldest niece was in the office um for an entire year before she goes uh abroad to do um her masters in um business. So, uh it's they all have a little bit of interest in coming back and it's just a matter of uh when and how we're going to do that because succession planning is difficult.
>> What's the firm called?
>> Brenby Farms.
>> How do you spell that? Bren B ren farms.
>> Fantastic.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for sharing that. No problem. That's great. I want to put something on the record here, which is a recent report for the Green Belt Foundation that says that Ontario's agriculture and agra food exports almost doubled between 2017 and 2024, which sounds like a good thing, from 15.5 billion to 28.3 billion worth. But it also said that imports grew too and therefore we are still at an eight billion dollar trade deficit. I see some heads nodding here as in this is not just news. So is Ontario agriculture booming or are we just barely keeping up here or maybe not keeping up so well? Who wants in on that? Who's got a comment right here, sir? Can we get a microphone to this gentleman here, please? Thank you.
>> Hi. Uh Chuck Barisuch, a farmer and a business owner. And um I actually I looked up some of those stats before I came here. So uh I think that you know when I look at our farm and our farming area I think we're we are just barely keeping up. You know we we have population growth in this country which is which is actually pretty which is actually great to see. And but when we compare Canadian results, not just Ontario, but Canadian results against other countries, there's lots of opportunity. And there are other countries, I think Canada is I I think ninth in the world in in a exports and but we have one of the largest chunks of arable land. So there's tremendous amount of opportunity.
>> So we are ninth, but we should be better is what I hear you saying.
>> Yes, I think we could be better.
>> Could be better. It feels to me, and I don't know if you folks feel this, so you will tell me, it feels to me like there has never been a moment in our history where more consumers are actually consciously focused on trying to buy Canadian wares. I'm seeing heads nodding here. Okay. I'd like to know how you feel that at your end of things. Who's got a comment to make about that? Anybody want to weigh in on that? Oh, this was the moment I feared when nobody would have anything to say. Okay, this gentleman here.
>> Yeah. So, Jan Vanderhort, I'm a greenhouse cucumber grower in Hamilton and I'm also chair of the Ontario Greenhouse Alliance. So, I think that by Canada has helped in general. I would also add though that on our farm and in our industry uh we we are 85% exported to the US and 300 tractor trailer loads a day isn't something that can just be absorbed in Canada or through east to west trade. So, um, yes, it helps, but not all of us are going to experience enough benefit from that to, uh, to really to make that shine.
>> So, before Trump, you were sending 300, do I have this right? You're
>> still now 300 tractor trailer loads a day from Ontario greenhouse vegetables.
>> And so, was it better before Trump got in?
>> It's the same.
>> It's the same.
>> It's the same. Yeah.
>> So, the tariffs have not had an impact.
>> They have not stopped the flow. and and a good thing because if if it if it had then we'd have five times as much product to or six times as much product to move domestically which would that would be a disaster. Could that find a market for somewhere other than the United States
>> in short? Not really. And I don't know if I want to even say that publicly because what what if that becomes, you know, an opportunity to to leverage us against us. And part of the reason why u I'm hesitant is we we so depend on that US market. And so when I hear my my friends and neighbors talk about, yeah, I'm not buying any more of that US. I'm not going to the US. And I hear that kind of rhetoric, it's like they're my f I want them to be my friends. So I I do buy Canadian first. And um but I not at not to neglect our US suppliers because they're an integral part of our industry. So
>> So is the fear there when when you see signs in supermarkets for example that say buy Canadian and when you hear people talking up the notion of buying Canadian, do you worry that Americans are going to do the same thing and only buy their stuff and not buy ours?
>> I I think in some cases they will. And if if they take on that perspective then yeah that will have a way bigger impact against us than what we will have against them for sure. Um I don't think though in general they don't have the the capacity to produce all of the greenhouse vegetables that we produce in Ontario. So it's not like tomorrow they're going to start buying buying US. They're they're going to continue to buy from Mexico and they're going to continue to buy from Canada because that's the way the supply chain model has been structured. And similarly, we're going to continue to buy produce from America, too, because not all products grow in Canada. My oranges, I I'm not too fussy about the Canadian oranges these days. So, okay, where's Richard Lee? There you are, Richard. Why don't you take the microphone? You know, there there are people obviously who've looked at what's happened in the auto sector where you've got President Trump saying, "Canada doesn't have anything we need. I mean, we have a very integrated auto sector, but apparently they don't need our cars." Do you worry he might say the same thing about Agra?
>> I think you outlined uh a couple key points, right? It's a symbiotic relationship. When you look at Mexico, Canada, and uh US, there's about $197 billion that the US exports to our countries. Greenhouse growers, we export about $1.7 billion worth of vegetables. And as Jan was indicating, it's a significant amount of of traffic crossing that border. During March uh 2025, I think we paid in those three days that those broad tariffs of 25% were applied, we paid almost $7 million to get our product across that border.
>> What' you think when you had to do that?
>> Well, it was a lot of shock, but at that time, don't get me wrong, our members did a great job. They negotiated with retailers. they tried to pass on those uh additional costs, but ultimately there's no supply chain that could absorb that kind of increase. So, because it came in so quickly, all retailers like we'll get you next week. We'll issue the POS next week to account for
>> the POS purchase orders, sorry. And uh of course when Monday rolled around those tariffs were withdrawn and our growers were left holding that bill. Fortunately enough now based on the latest ruling we will get those monies back. Obviously you'll have some brokerage fees that you'll be left with but nonetheless maintaining that relationship that symbiotic trade relationship is utmost importance to our sector. So when you talk to you, you have counterparts in the United States that you talk to and do business with, I presume. Yes,
>> absolutely.
>> Okay. When you talk to them about trying to do business in the era of Trump
>> when policy is, how should we put this?
>> Maybe not evenly applied or maybe not fully thought through. Can we put it that way? Gently.
>> How do what what do you guys talk about? I'd love to be a fly on the wall of those conversations. Listen, using economic levers to uh cause strain on different sectors is a very rudimental approach. It's a sledgehammer approach as opposed to a scalpel. Um you think about food and tariff-free trade, that's something that has to be maintained in any trade relationship. When we look at um the pandemic, there's a perfect example of the US Canadian um supply chain and the resilience thereof. that border stayed open and we were able to feed North America without any issues. So when you think about now at the uh probably the peak of the time where Canadians are facing affordability crisis um the US in a similar situation you have these additional costs that ultimately consumers are paying and I think they're finally seeing that and you're seeing a little bit of movement especially with this uh new trade renewal and review it draws some key concerns. So when you look at that investment, you look at the stability in the current climate, there has to be some certainties for us to continue investing which is a very high capital cost for green houses that uh are able to grow in a controlled environment utilizing less resources and a sustainable practice.
>> And yet when I asked that question off the top, in spite of all of what you've just said, you put your hand up.
>> I didn't actually. You didn't put your hand up.
>> I kept my hand down, but I was I was afraid to put my hand up after me.
>> Okay, you're off the hook then. Very good. All right, that's going to unless I see anybody else want to comment on this. Yes, right over here, please. Microphone.
>> Yeah, thank thank you very much. Uh Mark Hamill, chair of the Dairy Farmers of Ontario. And you know when the comments uh come up about stability and predictability uh I have to uh refer to our industry uh the dairy industry is very much uh supply management and the principle of of supply management is that stability and predictability for the domestic market uh providing uh product at fair price and it's it's 60 years old. It's proven that uh it's worked. It's worked well. Uh as a producer, myself and our family, we uh you know, we've been able to invest uh in our operation grow to ensure that we're efficient, productive, competitive, but it's also provided that stability to the processors
>> so that they can invest in uh in their operations. And that's incredibly uh important too for for the economy. And then the last piece that stability provides is for the consumer. Uh you talked about or I heard uh you know the price of food inflation because of supply management. We've been able to stay below the food inflation uh increases for for dairy products. So the consumers are are actually enjoying uh you know very nutritious tasty great great
>> the best of the stuff you make
>> great products at a at a very reasonable and fair price. So
>> you are not going to be shocked to hear me say and you probably know this that your business is in probably the number one spot of the crosshairs on the Kusma you smacka whatever you want to call it uh trade uh negotiations that are sort of on and off over the past year. Um do you do you think that supply management can survive after this round of negotiating?
>> Uh yeah yes yes I do. You know, you heard about the optimism right now in our industry. There's a a real shift to protein. Butterfat is still very very uh strong and and the collaborative approach or that we're seeing the support from the producers, the processors and from government right now to supply and come together ensure we have a dairy industry in this uh country is uh it's never been stronger. uh the support from from consumers that trust uh that they can you talk about food sovereignty, food security, food independence. Uh our consumers are looking for that and and one way to ensure that is making making sure it's processed here, produced here and sold here. uh we have the best quality or as good a quality as any country in the world and why not uh produce it here and process it here for our for our Canadians.
>> But are we as good as the French who have 120 different kinds of cheese? Can we do that, Mark?
>> Well, we we can be more innovative for sure, but we have very good cheese here as well. So, uh you know, you you talked about Kusma. Of course, it's a worry, but there's uh you know, some of the facts or some of the information that that's been uh u spread around the the imbalancing trade is one. You know, there's a billion uh US exports, a billion dollars worth of dairy products into Canada where we only export four back. So, that uh imbalance is in, you know, two and a half times. So they're they're already exporting way more into our uh our market than we are into theirs. So
>> you would never know that based on what President Trump says.
>> That's correct.
>> Who's right? Him or you?
>> I I this time I think I am
>> only this time.
>> Yes. Okay. Thanks for that intervention, Mark. Let's uh we're going to move on to section two now, which is what's needed today to produce more and build greater resilience on farm and for consumers. And where's John Lommo? Where's John's? Right here. Let's get a mic to John. He's managing partner of Catalyze 4. And you are the author of a call to action on the Build Canada site to grow agriculture substantially in this country. What's your mission, John?
>> My mission is exactly that. Um, I think we need a couple things to happen. Uh, first of all, I think we need the federal government to take leadership and put a target in the window uh for food sovereignty in this country. We we've done a good job of putting a target in the window for food exports and we actually met and exceeded that target in 2025. We need to put one for displacing imports and using more of what we produce here at home. So
>> what's the number you want to see?
>> 95%.
>> By
>> in 20 years,
>> you want us to be able to replace what's coming in from outside. I want us to be uh 95% food sovereign. Be able to feed ourselves from here uh from what we produce and what we process in this country uh to to 95%. That would require us to to grow and produce and process a lot of things that I suspect most Canadians think we can't possibly be in this business. Have you seen what the weather's like out today? Yeah.
>> So, how do we get around that? So, uh, remember that this I'm talking about a 20-year time horizon. For the first time ever, we are starting to see technologies come to be that are going to allow us and not just us, every country in the world to be far more food sovereign. And so, if we don't take note of that and start to plan for that transition and use of these new technologies, others are going to do it. We need to lead on those technologies at the same time as growing our our farm uh exports and our use of of farmed products here as imports into uh processing. So um uh it is uh super important that we do that like we we need to take on these new technologies and and by new technologies I mean like new primes of of agriculture of of food. So yes, we have our open field agriculture, we have livestock production, but we are uh seeing uh new technologies come to fruition, controlled environment agriculture being kind of the thin edge there. Uh both greenhouse but also what some would call warehouse farming, dark farming, vertical farming. Um and then things like uh uh precision fermentation, uh uh advanced uh cellular agriculture and even molecular synthesis. I mean, there are companies who are literally making protein from thin air.
>> I wrote a column a couple of weeks ago after having spoken to a couple of what were then kids 10 years ago at the University of Ottawa who went on a trip to the far north of Canada and realized how precarious their food situation was there because of course they have to bring everything in because they can't grow anything there. And they thought, what can we do to solve this? They created a company called Grosser. Gr.
>> I know them well. you know them well. Well, then you know they've been at this for 10 years
>> and do you want to tell people about them and what they do?
>> Well, I mean they they uh put uh farms in shipping containers and send them up north. But there I'd like to point out kind of two more things um that I think are really important and ties into this. The first one is our energy. Um more and more we're going to see and this this ties into the northern equation very much because they're running um you know they're running these containers off of diesel gen sets. So uh what's really important is that we develop abundant clean energy because more and more and this goes for every sector obviously but we are going to see um we're going to see kilowatts into calories. I mean that's that's really where we're going with this and and the primary agriculture input is going to be energy and so we need to do that. The other piece I'd like to just quickly state that I think needs to be solved is how capital formation is done in this country. the capital markets for early stage and mid-stage uh growth companies. uh right now that has all been um that it's all been organized around SAS companies or software as a service companies over the last you know couple decades and that has with the advent of AI those companies have have obviously um they're not doing as well and they've locked up a lot of capital that would get otherwise recycled into the ecosystem for startups and and next generation uh scaleups and so we need to find a way to rebuild that capital stack and to rebuild the capital markets in Canada that is formed formed around the need for building physical things, things that take longer, things that have heavy capex that need debt uh against them.
>> Well, okay. Can I ask you the question directly then, which is to say these folks at Grosser would like to see these big green houses
>> uh being purchased and put in communities, you know, never mind uh only in the north, but particularly in the north, so that they can grow their own food and not be reliant on us down here when it's minus40 there and can do it themselves. Is that doable? Um I I I it is doable. I think we have to look at the country as a whole and what we can you know we're talking about Canada and within our borders. One of the biggest things we can do is obviously fix the the uh interprovincial trade barriers which add a premium to our food. If we can lower those things, you know, a premium of like 8 to 15% is is currently uh on our food because of that. Can we do more of that up north? think it's really going to depend on whether we could get clean abundant energy up north. I think one of the great solutions for that is deep geothermal.
>> So, we need to be looking at, you know, getting off of diesel up north and bringing in new forms of of base load power up there.
>> Thanks, John. Let's just get some more feedback from others here right over here. Let's get a microphone here if we can. Thank you, CC. Okay, you are.
>> My name is Luca Galler. Um, I am a masterers of science student at the University of G. And I just wanted to touch on kind of what John was saying as well. I'm doing my masters specifically on controlled environment agriculture um specifically for northern and remote communities. And I wanted to touch on the point that we talked about in terms of is it possible to necessarily feed these communities just on um with these controlled environment units. Uh what one thing we're struggling with right now is especially if you're talking about hydroponics, there's very limited amount of variety that we can grow. And at the end of the day, we're not going to feed communities just on lettuce. Another thing that we have to consider as well is community preference, especially if we're talking about northern and remote communities who a lot of them are predominantly indigenous. Like leafy greens aren't traditionally part of their diet. So, we have to really take in consideration and ask these communities in essentially what they want. Energy is a huge one, but also clean water. Um, we have to be able to not only have the energy to run these systems, but a lot of communities again might not always have access to clean water. So, it's it's a little bit um complicated
>> of a complicated situation for sure. Um, I think that these units can be supplemental to um, food security in these communities, but I don't necessarily think that right away we're going to be feeding these communities by any means.
>> When are you going to be finished your education?
>> Um, I still have like a year left.
>> And do you what do you want to do when you're done?
>> That's a great question. Um, I went into controlled environment agriculture for um, multiple reasons. I really like the food security aspect of it. Um, but I was also quite drawn to space agriculture as well. Um, so there's there's quite a few avenues that I feel like I could take. Um, but I think I'm gonna get through my degree first before I decide.
>> You know what I'm seeing? I'm seeing someone who wants to be on Artemis 3.
>> Maybe. We'll see.
>> Okay, Lucy. Thank you very much.
>> I want to talk to Annette. Yes, absolutely. How do we get a microphone to Annette? There we go. Annette comes to us from Manatulan Island. Wikong. Yes.
>> Unseated First Nation.
>> Yep.
>> So, indigenous, you've heard what our previous speaker had to say. Please.
>> Uh I just wanted to Okay. Pelchce Lamont from uh First Nations Agriculture and Financing Ontario. Um when I wanted to say that, uh there's a lot of issues with starting up agricultural operations on reserve. Uh one of them is that uh we can't actually use buildings and uh you know equipment as collateral something that can't be removed from the reserve. So we actually um are looking for different types of funding where they will just uh and nobody's going to go for it right traditional lending institutions will not lend money to us to start agricultural operations.
>> So who has to perform that role? So right now, Farm Credit Canada and uh First Nations Agriculture and Financing Ontario are uh are giving loans without uh collateral.
>> And is that working?
>> I just started there last month, but what I can say is that uh sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. Um even when we're talking about these grosser units, uh we've financed a few of them and none none of them have succeeded as of yet.
>> Can Wiki feed itself? No. So, Wiki is actually one of the larger agricultural communities in Ontario right now. Like we have like uh six farmers, beef cattle farmers, and we do gardens.
>> This on Manatulan Island for those who don't know. And you drove all the way here from Manatulan.
>> Yes.
>> How long did it take you to get here?
>> Seven hours. Yeah.
>> Well, I stopped and shopped. So,
>> good for you.
>> So, if you can't feed yourself, what does the future look like? Well, the thing with Northern Ontario is that there's no infrastructure to support your agricultural activities. So, I just got myself some beef cattle. Uh, their closest abbittoire is an hour and a half away and uh they're booked a year ahead of time. The second closest abattoire is three and a half hours away and uh that's a lot of driving and stress on the animal. Um there's uh no butcher shop on Manulan Island that uh there used to be an abattoire at Manatulan. It didn't have a butcher shop to send the carcasses to for processing. So it shut down.
>> So it's really hard to start an agricultural operation in Northern Ontario without uh the support of you know these different uh businesses to process your your animals. How do you establish better connections then between what you're doing and processors etc?
>> Uh we'd actually like to somehow uh get the infrastructure in place to support farmers and so what FNAFO is doing is giving loans without uh collateral. Uh we're also trying to start up some training programs for new farmers. So, uh, we're working on a beef cattle course right now, and it's going to be like a oneweek crash course, um, fostering relationships with other organizations, um, trying to get some quota for meat chickens for First Nations businesses. Um, this is fairly new. I just started there a month ago and so, uh, we're looking at all our options, but right now it's pretty tough to get, you know, food security in Northern Ontario without support. Do you go to the Wikwong POW every Simco Day in August?
>> Yes. Just go down for a taco.
>> It's It's really one of the most incredible things I've ever seen.
>> Yeah.
>> Would you agree?
>> Yes, for sure.
>> Yeah. Amazing. Anyway, thank you for taking the trouble to drive here seven hours to be with us today. And why don't you pass the mic to this lady here? And you are.
>> Thank you. Hi, I'm Dana Dickerson. I'm the director of market development and sustainability at Grain Farmers of Ontario. So my job is to help find new markets whether it's domestic value added processing or international trade markets for Ontario barley corn oat wheat and soybeans. Um so some really great points here. There's there's things that we import that you know we probably need to look at growing here and there's new models of production that are really important but I think we also need to get the basics of our staples right. So our industry, the grains industry, it's a 27 billion industry and we have major investments that are lacking in value added processing here or infrastructure. Speaking about Northern Ontario, um, Northern Ontario growers in the Tamiskaming Earlton area finally just got a new rail sighting planned for their region so that they can actually move their oats and barley and and corn and soy by rail down to processing markets in southern Ontario um, versus bringing it all by truck on a single lane highway. So even interproincially, we talk a lot about interprovincial trade, but intraprovincial trade, trading within the province, city to city trade, that's really important because in areas like the north where we don't have a critical mass of production, it's really hard to get an investment proposition for value added processing up there. So we need to better connect our rural areas to southern Ontario processing and we need to add more value added processing in those rural areas.
>> How do you make all that happen? It's really difficult and I think one of the challenges is marketing our sector. You know, we're not as attentiongrabbing as molecular uh you know, agriculture or um uh some of the new sort of greenhouse projects that are out there that look really, you know, shiny and consumers can understand on the surface, but there's really critical pinch points in between. A a good example of a product that we produce in really high quality is soy. We grow some of the most high quality protein richch soy in the world
>> where
>> um all across Ontario. Yeah, it's incredible. It's actually moving north as we're developing new varieties to grow soy in climates that previously couldn't support them in. But the vast majority of that high protein soy is exported to Asia where it's used for tofu applications, plant-based foods, natto, miso, soy milk. And so they're really taking advantage of all this great quality soy that we produce. And we've got a company here in Ontario that wants to produce soy protein isolate so that we can make protein powders out of our high protein soy and rather than send the soy to China and import the isolate back. And they're really, you know, they've faced a lot of upfill battles and getting the capital investment, the support from government and even just sort of the environment of red tape and all the hoops you have to jump through to open a business that that's significant. So I think there's a lot of opportunity for the government to really look at our core staple infrastructure of producing food here. Um and how do we unlock those opportunities so that it's an attractive place to invest in?
>> Dana, just tell me if it's so I mean John made the case so well the importance of food sovereignty and being able to grow what we need here amongst ourselves. If the case for this is so compelling, why is government so sluggish to provide whatever it is you need to help get this show on the road?
>> I think there's a lot of reasons for that. So, um, one of it is sort of collaboration amongst departments within the federal level of agriculture. So agriculture, we always think of agriculture, agra food Canada as our main sort of government, you know, champion and supporter and regulator, but also we deal with environment, climate change Canada. We deal with finance Canada. We deal with all kinds of different departments across the federal government.
>> You know what they call that e in politics, you know what they call that? No.
>> All these ministries, they I mean you guys would love this being in the aggra business, they call them silos, right? Silos.
>> They all work in silos, these ministries, and they the left hand doesn't know what the right hand's doing.
>> Absolutely. Yeah. So we need to break down some of those silos at the federal level, get them all working together towards a single objective of ensuring that our sector is competitive because once our sector is competitive, farms can stay in business, they can continue to produce and we can contribute to national food security. I would also argue that sort of the federal, provincial, municipal level needs to work together. We've had companies coming here to invest in producing really interesting, you know, products based on our crops and they get attracted by the federal government or the provincial government. They come and they land and then they hit roadblocks at the municipal level for building permits or you know communities in their area that are living right next to where we're producing food and don't understand the value of that food production and having that industrial capacity in the area. Same with our ports. It's a it's a huge issue.
>> Thanks Dan. I saw somebody else with a hand up as well. Sure. You want to have another word? You've got the mic.
>> Yeah. Sorry if that's okay. Um I think that the barrier that we have is new entrance trying to get into agriculture is very very challenging. If you are a a big farmer or or you have deep pockets it's it's easier to get in but to have new blood come into the into the sector is is challenging and and the capital raising that capital to enter the sector in any form is very challenging. There are, you know, financial barriers. There's access to land. Um, in some sectors, you're not even allowed to enter. You need to you you need to acquire quota. You need to acquire things, but the minimum standards of that quota are so high that people can't get in can't get into the space.
>> Who sets those?
>> The the boards themselves set that. And there's reasons for that. And and sometimes it's a balance of stability. You're always trading off. If you want stability, there's a tradeoff for stability and and sometimes that we need to at some point we need to have a discussion as a sector. How do we encourage more people to enter? Um if you want to start growing produce and food in some municipalities, it's not allowed. If you want to have, you know, vertical farms and things, you know, if it's not zoned correctly or whatever, it's not there. And I don't even want to start on the First Nations challenges that I've heard about like not access to financing. I don't know how anything could ever get done. It's there's just a there's just a lot of challenges in in this and what we really need is is more people entering the space.
>> Can I just do a quick survey of the room? Who's a new farmer here? Who Okay, can we have a microphone to you please?
>> Why don't you stand tell us your name and what your farm is?
>> Oh, sorry. Nicole, sorry. From Pomoja Farms.
>> Where's that Nicole?
>> In Cor the Lakes.
>> Cora Lakes. Okay.
>> In Cora Lakes. So um I loved what you had to say and you as well and it was kind of ringing in my mind that the reoccurring underlying theme really is access and more involvement and education right so uh we started Pomoja Farms because we saw that there was such a huge lack of our community's involvement in agriculture and we saw that the lack was education right knowing what is the importance of getting involved in in agriculture why should we get involved you know even young people the distance between, you know, um, farms and cities, for example, that kind of keep certain groups out, right? Um, and even just young Canadians in general, right? Um, how much do they really see the value of of agriculture? You know, we go to the grocery store, we buy our food, but do we really know how it's being produced? So, anyway, I think it is very integral for the government to begin to fund startup farms. It's very hard for us, as you know, newbies. I'm a behavior therapist. My husband is into it. So we don't have you know the long family history of farmers.
>> I was going to ask where did you didn't grow up on a farm?
>> No.
>> So where does this interest come from?
>> So the interest came from co really just seeing how um you know uh limited sometimes food products were um getting things on the shelves when you go into the grocery store and you're seeing okay it's looking a little scarce right? Um and so my husband was like we need to do something about this. we don't know anything about agriculture, but let's pull together a community members and purchase this farmland. And so we did that and then we're paying for the farmland, but then we need to produce. And then we're like, okay, we're hit with the cost of production, right? So
>> if you had to do it all over again knowing how tough it would be, would you do it anyway?
>> 150%. You would? Yes. And we are so excited like somebody said about farmers being optimist. Um I absolutely agree with that. Um, I think when you see the possibilities of Ontario and how much we can grow here, I think it just keeps you excited even with the challenges.
>> Good for you. Well done. Why don't you hand the mic to this lady here and so much
>> introduce yourself if you would.
>> I'm Jana Bronze, professor of strategy and sustainability and regenerative agriculture at the IB business school. Um,
>> it's a western in London.
>> Western in London.
>> Okay. um it's a both end solution. So the supply chains have been organized for a very long time for efficiency, for stability, but also for reducing the cost of production. They have not been organized for sovereignty. They have not been organized for poly crisis that most certainly have not organized for climate change. So the opportunity to radically rethink value addition in not not without primary producer but with shared agendas where the primary producers are at the same table with the innovations and the cellar agriculture and this is what we witness happening in Europe. Um it is a lot easier to create value addition for new farmers when you have um a full menu of of high value addition and a very integrated supply chain that is designed for food security. The best example in Europe is the oat. Um the oat used to be a very low value addition and now it's one of the main inputs into all sorts of production including fabrics, including cellular agriculture. So what I want to emphasize it's all of these points are important. It's a bothend solution but that both end solution is not a protectionist solution is an integrative out ofthebox technology innovation solution.
>> Can I can I do one fast followup for you and then I got to re rrack for a second. You know what I have to confess when I think of Ivy the Ivy Business School I do not think agriculture. How much uptake do you have? I mean is there are there enough students who actually want to learn this at Ivy?
>> We do. Um I I am the founder and director of the regenerator. We are a place that incubates all sorts of um innovative regenerative ventures uh in agrich. We have the grove. We have one of the richest oldest ecosystems of technological innovation in agriculture in our ecosystem. And we'd like to think that we're not isolated from community, but very strongly embedded in community. But the bigger question that you're asking, Steve, is should business schools be involved in the restructuring of the supply chain? And that's where our skin in the game is. We believe in supply chains that are organized locally. They are organized for food sufficiency and security and sovereignty if possible. and they're organized for a future that is climate adaptive and and energy efficient and and water efficient.
>> Well, professor, I can tell you that we have amongst us here today one graduate. It wasn't called Ivy then, but it was called the Western School of Business.
>> He was, I believe, class of 1956. And that's my 92-year-old father, Larry Pac, right there.
>> Congratulations.
>> So, there we go.
>> Home Pride. Uh, we do teach this in all programs. So we teach from from the undergrads to the executive MBAs. We teach circularity, value addition, regeneration. We believe that is the future.
>> Great. Thank you. Let me do a a little business here to remind people that we are here at the Vineland Institute about a half an hour east of Hamilton on the southshore of Lake Ontario for a community conversation about building Canada's food independence and resilience. And our panel guests today are, as you can see, dozens of people from the agriculture and agra food sector in Ontario. We are actually in the town of Lincoln, Ontario, which would be one of the very few places in North America named Lincoln that's not named after the former president of the United States. And I bet somebody here knows who the Lincoln is that we're named after here in Lincoln, Ontario. Does anybody know? I had to look it up. I have to confess. I had to look it up. This place, Lincoln, Ontario, is named after Lincolnshire in England, which was uh a favorite town of our first lieutenant governor, John Graves Simco. So, he named this place Lincoln, Ontario, after Lincolnshire and has nothing to do with Abraham Lincoln, which actually is pretty cool considering the state of the relations between our two countries right now. Anyways, that aside, let's move on. We're continuing our conversation now. Two down, two sections to go. If food security is national security, what roadblocks and challenges need to be addressed? Professor, if you'd give the mic to your colleague Evan Fraser, director of the Aerrol Food Institute, professor of geography at the University of G. I want to ask you about your piece you wrote, the op-ed you wrote in the Toronto Star that says the world is rediscovering something, namely that food is power. What did you mean?
>> So, I think that Canada has a remarkable opportunity right now. We have an opportunity, as we've been discussing, to boost our production and boost our supply chains, increase our resilience domestically. But everybody in the world is looking for exactly the same things that every one of us is looking for, which is three culturally appropriate, delicious meals a day. And the argument that we made in that oped, Steve, was that by exporting food, by being the world's most reliable supplier of food to nations around the world, we will not only be exporting a very valuable economic commodity and deriving economic benefits, we'll be exporting political stability. And in doing that, we will be channeling Mr. Carney's idea that we can be an effective middle power. that this is a way that Canada can strut upon the world stage exert uh a meaningful role in this turbulent moment but by exporting food and in the crawlery of exporting food is by exporting stability.
>> Are we doing it
>> at the moment? We are but we have the capa capacity to do it a whole lot more. So uh earlier today we mentioned in this discussion that we are the ninth uh biggest food exporter on the planet. We used to be the fifth biggest food exporter on the planet. not very many years ago and as we have increased our exports over the last few years we have been falling back in the league table because our competitors other countries countries such as Russia, Brazil and the US are exporting even faster and even more. So we are dropping back as uh in terms of a global food power not moving forward.
>> What have they figured out that we have not yet figured out? uh better infrastructure to get food out into international markets, more innovation and more technology development to increase yields faster and increase productivity. Uh better enticements to young people such as Luca here and Dean uh to come into the sector and be the next generation of agra food leader. These are things that they are doing better than us and that we need to catch up on.
>> Is politics writ large in Canada seized enough of this issue to understand the problems and what we can do about it? Up until a few months ago, I would have said that uh Canada was surfing on not only a peace dividend and that we've sort of enjoyed a long period of stability and therefore underfunded defense. We've also been surfing on a a food dividend where it's been easy to produce food. International supply chains, low energy prices, stable environment has made it easy to ignore that we all need three meals a day no matter what. Uh we're now waking up to the fact that we have to make up for that food dividend. We have to reinvest in agriculture. A year ago, I would have said we were completely clueless as a country to this. Uh Mr. Carney in his speech in Dallas mentions food twice. Two weeks later, he says we're going to create a national food security strategy. I am now seeing food enter the uh the agenda in a way that I've never seen before.
>> You like the way this is going.
>> Uh you started off our conversation by saying, is this the best time to be working in food? And this is my answer to the question. Yes, we are making up for our food dividend. This is an exciting time to be a Canadian food expert.
>> Cool. Thank you, Evan. Good to see you again. We've had you on the agenda in the past, of course.
>> Uh let's do this quote here. This is from an article in the Glob and Mail back in February. Quote, "The United States potentially controls as much as 82.9% of all fruits and vegetables that enter Canada." Can you imagine that? The US potentially controls 82.9% of all fruits and vegetables that enter Canada. And the question is, should we be doing something about that? Who's got a thought on that? Evan, can we pass the mic? Thank you. Yes, please.
>> Well, I think I think absolutely we should and and there's a there's a there's a congregation, there's a grouping together of we have energy, we have water, we have land, we have smart people, we have systems, we have place,
>> but do we have ambition? Do we have the ambition to be the world's food superpower?
>> I think we just need to be told to go after it. Um, let's focus on it. I think we have lots of ambition in Canada. We we've got ambition in space. We've got ambition in manufacturing and auto food. Why not? It's just a matter of just being saying and I think that what Evan just talked about just mentioning it and talking it up that it's not people standing around with pitchforks in the corner. Agriculture is the place to be. and and you know we have the the last piece that I wanted to bring up is that we also have the technology is enabling this to to happen whether it's in outdoor agriculture u whether it's robotics and dairy barns whether it is u green automation and green houses all these things are coming together to enable it to enable this to happen but we have the advantage of the other infrastructure
>> Drew from the unfair Ontario Federation of agriculture has another thought on this
>> well I think one of the things we really need to do, Steve, is uh see governments prioritize agriculture like they prioritize a number of other things across uh across our province and our country. We always I think everybody in this room hears lots about cars, about steel and aluminum, about critical minerals, energy and mining. We need agriculture to be on that list, too. And so, I think, you know, back to Dana's earlier point, that's where we need partnerships across government with the agriculture industry. We need to make sure that municipalities aren't putting barriers in the way for farmers and for processors and producers of of uh you know grains and different things that we're trying to do across the province. We need to have uh you know the province talking about agriculture. We need the prime minister talking about agriculture and uh you know all the great things it's doing for our country and our province and and municipalities right down the line.
>> Do you see evidence of that happening?
>> I think it's shifting. Yeah, it it hasn't been as prevalent over the last little while, but like Evan said, you know, I think over the course of the last year, the prime minister's speech, his trade mission to China, other other events that have happened, I think there is more of an emphasis on agriculture. But we need to see that right across the government. We certainly see that in agriculture ministries and and that's what they're there for. But we deal with so many other ministries across the government, whether it's health, transportation, infrastructure, finance. finance minister in Ontario didn't mention agriculture once in his budget a month ago
>> and it's a huge priority for this province is 52 billion dollars and we'd like to see them talking about it.
>> I just wonder Drew how this works. When you watch Peter Bethlin give his budget speech and the word agriculture doesn't come up. You're the head of the offa. Do you call him up immediately after the speech and say, "Hey Pete, what gives?"
>> I've mentioned it to him a couple times that I would that I would have liked to have heard it. He says, "Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, we know." and and I'm sure he does, but uh it's definitely it's a priority for us absolutely as agriculture folks in the agriculture business, but it should be a priority for government as well.
>> Want to pass the mic to this gentleman here? Tell us you're you're a young guy. How old are you?
>> That's right. I'm turning 34 this year, Steve.
>> 34. Okay. That's still young in my business.
>> Yep. So, I'm uh
>> What's your name?
>> My name is Dean O.
>> Where are you from, Dean?
>> Uh King City, Ontario, which is just north of Toronto.
>> Indeed. So we farm um about 2,300 acres of grain primarily there. Uh corn, soy, corn, soy, wheat, kidney beans. Uh we do maple syrup.
>> What generation are you in the business?
>> Uh second actually. So my dad came from the city, started farming with my mom. Um but all four of my grandparents grew up on farms.
>> Do you plan to expand?
>> Um it's a tough question. We're We farm so close to the city that the urban pressure is just wild.
>> Urban pressure meaning they want to build a highway through your farm or something like that or what?
>> The 413 y is a big big issue that would take out about 500 acres of the land that we rent. Uh just like that. Um a lot of the land that we rent is beautiful beautiful farmland but it's in the white belt in Vaughn and so it will get developed at some point in time. Um and that kind of has encouraged me to go back to school at the University of G. I'm studying my masters in rural planning right now uh with a thesis in uh trying to figure out how much land we need to support Ontario's population. It's kind of a topical.
>> I'm looking around the room here. I don't see too many farmers in ties. You've got a tie on. What's going on, Mr. Roar?
>> I dressed up a little bit today.
>> Isn't it funny how the guys who work on the farms all dressed up today and the guy who normally got a suit on in the studio really dressed down today?
>> I look good, Steve.
>> You think I look okay in this? Yeah. All right.
>> Do you see a future for yourself in this business?
>> Um, it's if there's a future for me, it's going to have to change dramatically. Um, we will lose enough farmland there that uh to have the farm survive, we're going to have to look at value ad. Uh, so seed cleaning perhaps is an option. Seed sales, uh, doing more feed production, feed milling, feed sales, stuff like that. Um, I may have to get an off-farm job, which is not an uncommon thing in Ontario. I think something like 50% of uh farmers have an off-farm job in Ontario to uh to keep things rolling.
>> What else would you want to do?
>> Well, I'm in school for land use planning. I can uh take up some contract work in the winter, which would be fun. Uh I very much like research at school. Um I would love to continue doing research at school. Uh and so maybe there's some kind of balance that can happen there with that. Um,
>> but keep the farming.
>> Keep the farming. I think there's it'll be in my blood forever. There's It just sticks in there somehow. Um, and I Yeah, I think that is one of the biggest challenges that our industry has going forward. Um, no one's really mentioned it yet today, but is the farmland loss that we're experiencing all around us right now. Um, federal statistics, uh, the last census of agriculture said we're losing 319 acres per day in Ontario, which is just under 1% of our farmland per year, which is wildly unsustainable. Losing it to what?
>> Um, so those statistics don't specify exactly what. Um, it could be uh reing, it could be development, it could be better GPS. uh farmers may not have as much land as they thought they had before. Um there's been some other research at the University of G that's looked at uh uh the amount of land, prime agricultural land lost to um development. Something like threequarters of all prime agricultural land in Ontario is lost to settlement area boundary expansions. So development um it's a it's a huge huge pressure and something that uh we really need the province to get on board with if we're going to see um agriculture take hold of those productive opportunities to to feed ourselves in the world going going forward.
>> Gotcha. Thank you.
>> Thanks. Who else wants in on this? Yes, please. Let's hand the mic back to your friend here.
>> Thank you very much. I uh I think that we it's really important that we do have a secure food security strategy in Canada and uh and Ontario of course and I I think a part of that has to be the succession of the family farm and I'm actually quite impressed with this group that we have several people who are seem to have a a good succession plan on their farms and I can tell you firsthand it is very very difficult because the the issues of taxation on the transfer of of the assets And I'm sure you've heard that farmers asset rich cash poor. And that's a real thing. That's a real thing. And you can look you can look at my financial position and it's it's exactly like that. And um so I think there needs to be some mechanisms so that um our farms can be transitioned to the next generation and mitigate the tax consequences because if if if that is not done well then those farms will be downsizing or closing and and we can't afford to lose that.
>> I can tell you something. I know the head of the Ontario Federation of Agriculture and I know the min the Minister of Finance owes him one. Do you think maybe maybe you guys could have a word and figure this out?
>> We we have actually tag team with the minister before. Yeah.
>> And when you make the argument, what does he say?
>> Um more to come. Stay so stay tuned.
>> Stay t like do you think there's a possibility they could make some kinds of legislative changes to enable this?
>> Oh, in terms of the taxation on property that that would be more more of a federal thing and that's something that's been on the you know in the discussions for a long time. people farmers have been complaining about this for a long time. But yeah, the governments need need the money too and they see they see the farmers as these rich guys with which of course they should pay the tax. And and I'm not saying that we shouldn't pay pay our fair share, but I am saying that when we're transitioning a farm to the next and it could be family generation or it could be employee generation, but into the next the next level, the next generation, then I think there should be some kind of break so that that becomes more affordable.
>> Can I do a follow-up here? It was Yeah. with you. I want you to get the microphone back because you're fifth gener Yeah. You're you did you say you were fifth generation farmer earlier? Uh we are fourth generation.
>> Fourth generation. Yeah. Oh. And but your offspring may be the fifth, right?
>> How did you handle that whole issue of trying to pass the farm down through successive generations without taxes or inheritance fees etc. bankrupting you? I
>> it's it's incredibly hard. Um, we are still working on um getting some assets out of my parents uh names and and into mine and my brothers as well as us trying to figure out a plan to get it out of ours and into our kids. So, we're really kind of working on two generations at the same time um and deciding are we putting more into our business? Do our kids look like they are going to take it over? Do we want to continue to grow? Um and if we continue to grow and our kids don't take it over, what what out do we have? How are we going to get out of this? Um, it's one thing to grow a business and put assets out there like buildings and um houses and acquiring property and then all of a sudden to try and turn it around and be like, "My kids don't want this and I can't do it anymore. So, how do I get rid of it?" And there's not many people that are looking to buy farms. Um, so who are you selling to? Who are you going to get out? And unfortunately, some of that is urbanization, right? Um, that's an out for farms. Um, if there's no one to take over.
>> Okay, I have a new idea. I know the head of the Ontario Federation of Agriculture and you talk to him and tell him to call his friend France Philip Champang and say Brend Farms needs a break on all this succession business. Okay, we'll get right on that. Thank you for that intervention. Let me just because we're uh we're about to run short on time and I want to make sure we get to our final theme here. And we touched a bit on innovation and what role it would play in getting us to where John feels we need to go. Can innovation help Ontario and Canada become food and agricultural superpower. Alex Barlo, vice president, programs, Canadian Food Innovation Network. There you are, Alex. How is innovation going to get us there?
>> Um well, I mean, I would argue that Canada's already a food superpower. uh Canadian Food Innovation Network represents the customers of many of the people in the room today. We're the food processors, the distributors and the restaurants who are getting products to Canadians and a lot of worldleading food processors have doubled down on Canada in recent history. Craft just announced a big expansion uh for their location in Montreal for Rashe and Brford. So we are seeing big companies invest and stay here in Canada. What we sometimes forget is that, you know, these big companies attract a lot of attention. They're less than 2% of the food processors in Canada.
>> What's the backbone?
>> Uh the backbone, well, 91% of the food processing market is under 10 employees. And so when we talk about how technology and innovation and how it can help Canada grow or maintain its position as a food superpower, it comes down to helping small business have better visibility on their operation and a more resiliency because the world's so volatile. All these trade disruptions impact their ingredients, their logistics to get product to your local shelf uh your real uh uh your retail store. And so technology to help them work on their business versus in their business is really really important. And a small business with less than 10 employees does not have a huge cash position. Most of them are operating with less than a 5% gross margin. So it's not like they have tons of cash to go buy some new software for their business. And so as a result they get tied up in very manual processes. Uh great project and member that we've had is Non Such Brewing in Winnipeg. uh indigenous owned brewery. The founder was spending all their time managing their production and scheduling everything to be as efficient as possible and as a result not pursuing new business uh you know getting tied up in sort of the the rigomearrow of things. And so they partnered with a local digital tech company, Mode40, to build uh an agentic AI system that sits on all their data, helps them plan their production, schedule everything, and now that founder has capacity to go and grow their business, and they can then grow from a small into a medium and largesiz company. And that's what we need to do. We need to enable small business to grow, not just hold on because with fuel and supply chain shocks, they're going to be disappearing. A lot of food processors are even operating with negative margins. And you've heard it from everyone in the room. No one has a money tree or an area in which they're suddenly driving a lot of profitability. And so with everyone feeling that kind of pressure, technology can help us build that little bit of extra space in our businesses to then um be able to, you know, weather some of this because I don't think it's going away. I'm a millennial. Nothing in my life has been, you know, sort of it's it hasn't been very uh uh stable. It's certainly been kind of hectic. And so I think that opportunity to um use technology to build more resiliency into our food operations is really really important.
>> Thanks for that, Alex. Who who else has got an example? Okay, let's go back to Brandon D. Farms. You got an example of of something that
>> Yeah. Um
>> Alex has been referring to here.
>> Absolutely. So the the thing with the technology and innovation, the sky's is the limit on on what can actually be developed, right? If you can think it, somebody's going to be able to develop it out there. But the cost of that is what is the most prohibitive for most businesses, right? Um particularly um vegetables, myself um we're cost takers, right? Like we don't have the ability to go to retailers and say, "Oh, by the way, there's a war going on. In case you don't know, we need to increase our price." And they look at us and go, "No, we you bid one time a year on a price and that's the price that you get. And it doesn't matter whether there's a war going on. It doesn't matter that gas prices have gone up 100%. It doesn't matter that fertilizers um are way more expensive to get in. Um you're getting squeezed and squeezed and squeezed. So your margins are getting smaller and smaller and the technologies and equipment that you need to invest in are expensive and something that may have taken you 10 years to pay off um last year is now taking you 15 or 20. and you just can't afford a lot of the the new technologies out there and a lot of the um grants and things that are available to us. There's there's grants out there, but the amount of grant is not enough to help. So, you're getting 10% of a project. And when you're buying a million-dollar piece of equipment or a combine or whatever it may be, a tractor, what a new development of an automated weed picker, whatever it might be, you're not talking $10,000. You're talking hundreds of thousands of dollars. And to to get $10,000 or $100,000 back on it is still just not quite enough to make that project easy for farmers to swallow.
>> Let's hear more on innovation here from somebody who hasn't had the microphone yet. You haven't had the mic yet. Go ahead, introduce yourself if you would.
>> Uh, Julie Ma. I am a farmer and vice chair with Grain Farmers of Ontario. I think you make a very good point and farmers are doing more with less. So, as an example, you know, putting product on uh their fields. They're taking a targeted approach rather than a blanket application trying to save money. Farmers know probably the best of all sectors, you know, to save money. They're not going to spend money if they don't have to.
>> Who else hasn't had a chat back here, please?
>> Hi, Sandra Voss. I'm a cow calf beef farmer here in Ontario and innovation in our industry. We've we're having a very strong uh bottom line this year and last year.
>> Where's your farm?
>> Um it's in Brandt County.
>> Okay.
>> So, in innovation in the beef industry, our biggest challenge is labor. So, we are now trying to bring in more um AI cameras to check carcasses. We're also using drones in terms of moving cattle. We're using invisible like your dog's fence lines, you know, we're trying that and we're we're monitoring our water usage if the if the tanks overflow. So, we're trying to build in little things where we can. And the cost is prohibitive, but in the end, if that makes you a more efficient beef farmer, then definitely we're trying to take those steps.
>> Is it working?
>> I think so. Um people will always say, "Oh, they don't want to do that. It costs too much money. I don't understand it. The government's going to make me." But there are people in our industry who are forward thinking and thinking, "This is where we have to go if we have problems with tariffs and export amounts and no one coming into the industry."
>> Gotcha. Who else wants in here? Yes. Let's go into the back here.
>> Um thanks.
>> Um uh so
>> what's your name? Jennifer. Hi. Apple Hill Lavender in Norfol County. We have a lavender agurism business. We have medicinal herbs and we are a commercial apple uh grower as well since 1906. I too am a fourth generation. Um I left the farm after high school because I was like I'm not going to make any money. My see how hard my dad works. This is crazy. I came back during COVID when I realized my parents were aging and we didn't want to pass the farm on to somebody else. We wanted to keep it. So I've only been involved in agriculture for the past five years. and from a different perspective. I've been able to stand there and watch what's going on in the industry and I've been able to see how incredibly resilient farmers are, how amazingly resourceful we are. So when we talk about innovation, I can tell you right now after the past five years, there are more things hold held together on my farm with zip ties than anything because we're resourceful as a farmer. What really is important when we're looking at innovation, especially when it comes to being able to afford it because we're only 50 acres. We can't afford the drones, these amazing innovative ideas that are out there for our farm. But what what we can do is we can have a voice at the tables that matter. So whether it be the Ontario Federation of Agriculture or the Dairy Board, sitting at those circles and having that voice, that's the most important. So having those political levels, federal, provincial, municipal, that was a really great idea. Having the voice, being able to be a part of every conversation because we're resourceful, we're resilient, and we're going to be able to come up with the ideas ourselves to be able to pose it. Um, there's a really great quote before I pass this microphone on that I love uh by Dwight D. Eisenhower, and it's uh easy to farm when your plow is a pen and you're a thousand miles from the cornfield. So, it's important for us to be able to have voices at those tables that matter because we're the ones with the answers. We're doing it every single day.
>> We like Ike, don't we?
>> Ike had good things to say. Yes, please. Right here. Thank you.
>> Uh, yeah. Nevin McDougall. I'm with Agricultural Research and Innovation Ontario. Um, I've had the pleasure over probably 30 years to see a lot of innovations come to uh, agriculture, not only here in Canada, but around the world. And I'd have to say that uh you know farmers are very very smart operators. When they see technologies that will help them be more efficient uh more effective in their practices, they adopt it. Typically when there's a good ROI without fail, if they can make money with it, they adopt it. So that gives me a lot of confidence that when we look at new technologies coming forward that provide good value, it will get pick picked up very very quickly. On the whole theme around innovation, we have to think a little bit broader too beyond just being more efficient. It's about, you know, new products, you know, how are we val uh adding value to our uh products that we are producing. If we're if we continue to produce commodities, we're going to be a price taker. So, the more we can do to add value, create differentiated products, that's really where long-term value and sustainability for our industry is.
>> This is a bit of a cheeky follow-up, but you'll you showed up anyway, so I know you can handle it. This government, as like many of its predecessors, values significantly the contribution the auto industry makes to this province and subsidizes the hell out of every job in that industry. Do they do enough for farmers?
>> They could do more. How's that, Steve? For a cheeky response.
>> That's not bad. That's not bad. Okay, right here, please.
>> Hi there. I'm Mike Crozac. I'm the chair of the Ontario Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association and I grow uh asparagus, watermelon, and grains. Um
>> where?
>> Near Tilsenberg.
>> Okay.
>> And um I just wanted to jump on on onto that that comment that you know we've we've uh I hate bringing up COVID. Everyone's tired of the term, but I can proudly say farmers delivered the most important um product during during that pandemic of getting healthy, safe food to Canadians. And I would argue that we received um some of the least needed the least amount of support to get through it. While other industries were were heavily subsidized, um we are resilient and um you know when we talk about investments in in agriculture and and uh food security, we need to see that as nation building as a nation building uh exercise. And I think the opportunity to make sure we have a strong robust primary agricultural supply chain is essential in order to have a healthy and successful processing and innovation sector. So um you know getting that investment at the farm level, making sure farms are sustainable and profitable um to ensure that we can continue delivering food for Canadians.
>> Well said, Mike. Who else? Over here, please. Well, thank you Ian Potter, president CEO of Vin Lam Research and Innovation Center and uh thank you for coming and uh
>> thank you for having us.
>> Lovely location. It's actually owned by Agriculture Research and Innovation Ontario, but we're the property manager and uh we run the property. We've been doing it in this center, not as Vinand, but the entities before us for 120 years. That's a lot of innovation. To me, innovation and economic development go hand in hand. You drive together. uh innovation is not successful unless it gets into the economy fundamentally. A lot of that happens on the farms but a lot of it happens in the centers that myself and my colleague in front of me we operate on behalf of the chairman over here all for the success of Ontario that pre-capitalized infrastructure that can help drive innovation. Vineland was set up for the tender fruit sector in 1906. That's how far back it goes.
>> There is a lot of ongoing innovation. It's needed. you know, 20 years to get the next Apple that you might like. It's a long-term game for us. It doesn't work in electoral cycles. It's one of those struggles. However, there is a lot of opportunity. You look at the things I think are important. We look at food sovereignty. I'd say seed sovereignty is an important one.
>> We bring in way too much seed from other seas that's not actually bred and conditioned for the type of seed we need in Canada.
>> So, why do we do it? because it's there and the markets they're available but it's not grown for Canadian conditions. So we've worked for example with OGVG on the next generation best tomato.
>> O
>> the Ontario uh greenhouse vegetable growers.
>> Got it.
>> Yeah. You got to remember they've got more green houses in Lamington than the whole of the US.
>> It's it's a powerhouse. And that's the other thing. We don't celebrate our successes enough. We don't tell these stories enough. Thank you for the program in allowing us to do this. But we've got to be more vocal about the successes we've had over the last 200 years. One of the other things is the cross- sectoral. Some of the things like with the Hagerty robotics, we've got some of the best manufacturing and robotics and technology organizations in the country mainly around automotive and aerospace. The ability for them to transfer into agriculture is huge. Why are we importing 70% of the equipment from overseas when we can build it and grow it here? That really is how we become and maintain that superpower. Got it. Thanks, Ian. Who else hasn't had the mic yet? Okay. Okay. Alex, you want a second word?
>> I just want to make one comment on the auto sector and just compare the jobs. So, auto employs 117,000 uh Canadians. Uh agriculture 250,000, food processing 300,000. The agra food supply chain is one in nine jobs. So, I don't mean to to, you know, offend my auto. Yeah, exactly. I think auto's a a key component to our sector, but food is currently our largest manufacturing sector and it's one in nine jobs. So, it's it's really needs to be at the forefront and it sometimes I think just gets forgotten because they think we're just sort of, you know, with our pitchfork and our stronger mouth.
>> Give the mic to John if you would. He wants a word.
>> Um, yeah. So, I would agree with pretty much everything in the room said today. Uh and it it most of what has been said is about how we need action to change how things are being done. And so I'll come back to my point that I think we need a sort of a galvanizing cry uh a target set um that everything can rally around. And we've seen this uh be successful. We've seen other countries doing this. We've seen it be particularly successful in the Netherlands. Uh the Netherlands has set uh well a bunch of policies in place, but they were really rallied around this cry for doubling food output while uh having the resource input to to make that happen. They've been hugely successful. That happened in 2000. They are now uh the second largest vegetable exporter in the world and I think they're smaller than Nova Scotia
>> in land size.
>> So we should watch what's going on and be successful. And then if if I can make one other point um on a kind of a more uh a macro view for a second on you asked about innovation. Um we we really need to take a long-term view on this. So much is changing right now. Uh and we're going to see a pace of change that we've never seen in history before. AI, we've all seen that come to fruition very recently, seemingly overnight, and all of a sudden it's it's um you know the topic of every conversation. As soon as you start to pair that with quantum computing um that can that can essentially um uh let you remake digitally very complex systems including biology. Um and then you power that with abundant clean power. Everything sort of turns on its head. um the the constraints on agriculture and food production really move and we can start to read biology in a way that we've never been able to and we can start to actually um intervene in biology that we've in ways we've never been able to. We're going to see so many interesting things happening and and and I think we we need to be paying attention to that now. We got time for a couple of quick comments. Dana, you wanted the mic for a second?
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. I was just going to say I mean my job is at the downstream of promoting our grains around the world and I benefit from all of the upstream research that happens at the universities with the plantreeders with the farmers who trial things farmers maybe get 30 attempts in their lifetime to grow a crop. And so if they're changing something if they're adopting a new innovation on farm they're going to be very conservative about trying that out right. So we really need to invest in that innovation, make sure it's going to work and it needs a lot of patient capital and we may not see the benefits for that for a very long time to come even if things are happening very quickly. So um I think the fact that we have such high quality products today and there's so much demand domestically and internationally for them is because of the generational investments that happened before us and we need to be doubling down on those investments now so that the future generation can benefit from them.
>> Beautiful. You got the last word here.
>> Wow. Thanks, Steve. Uh, at the University of G, we're really excited and privileged because we can work with phenomenal young people and attract phenomenal young people into the sector. And my colleague John here has brought uh creative destruction labs, which is a business incubator program to campus to focus on agriculture. I lead a program called sustainable food systems for Canada that runs a national network of hackathons and design jams. All of which is to say uh the number of ideas coming out of the next generation that are unencumbered by the way things were and are willing to look at the way things could be is unbelievably strong. And so the final answer to your question as to why I'm optimistic is in my daily life I get to see and work with this array of young talent thinking how do we produce more food while reducing the environmental impact of agriculture? How do we produce more safe, nutritious and sustainable food? And and the future is unbelievably uh optimistic and powerful when seen through that lens. Of course, we need the right policies. Of course, we need investments in infrastructure. Of course, we need uh the uh the the patient capital, but the talent flow that's coming into this with the innovation behind it is absolutely remarkable.
>> I want to survey the room and see if there is agreement on that point. We'll we started with a poll question. Let's finish with a poll question. In your view, agree or disagree, Canada is sufficiently seized of these issues that we will do what it takes to get a lot more food independent than we are today. Who agrees with that? Hands down. Who disagrees with it? John is not sure. Also, Annette, not sure. Dana, not sure. Iffy. Richard, did you vote this time or did you dodge the vote again? You did. Okay. Just checking. Just checking. Can I also mention this is apparently the international year of the female farmer and in a business where seven out of 10 farmers I'm told are male, it's great to see so many female faces in this room doing your thing. So congratulations to all of you and happy international year of the female farmer. Let's do that. Um I think that's our time and I want to say a few thank yous before we go here. Uh first of all to Mike, Jane, and Nicole here at Vineland Institute. Uh CEO Ian Potter whom we heard from. Thank you for making this wonderful space available to us. Can I take that home? That is that is a beautiful background. I would love that for all of the shows we do. They don't even have to be about agriculture. I just love the look of it. Uh to our TVO crew, of course, uh production staff, Mark Ford, Chad Castle, Sheldon Osman, our director, Tina Zano, Ricardo's here, everybody else, uh the series producer, Hillary Clark, who always makes this happen so seamlessly. I don't know how she does, but she does. Uh, thanks so much to all of you. As well as always, we want to thank the Wilson Foundation, Red Wilson. We appreciate your original vision in what we've been trying to do with this TVO Today live series. We thank you for allowing us to go out of the studio and into the community so that we can meet people where they live. We want to tell you that for more on this TVOT Today live series, you can go to this website, tvO.orgtvoive, or we've got a YouTube channel. Who doesn't? But we do, too. youtube.comtvo today. And finally, of course, I want to thank all of you for taking time out of your day here on a Sunday afternoon to really educate us and through us, the people of Ontario and Canada, about a subject that is of such crucial importance to all of our futures. So, please give yourselves a round of applause. You deserve it. Thank you very much. And with that, I'm Steve Pacin and so long from Lincoln, Ontario. We'll see you next time on TVO Today Live. So long. TVO Today Live is made possible by the generous support of the Wilson Foundation.