All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. I don't understand why there's 500 comments of saying I'm late. Literally at 3:45. I know it's 3:46 cuz I literally went live 10 seconds ago, so it ended up being 3:46. But you you don't even give someone a chance to be on like if they're not early, they're late. That is what being on time to you guys consist of. If they're not early, they are late. But we're live. We're here. And we got a lot to talk about. Folks, thank you everybody for being here. We will have technical Tuesday today in about um 30 minutes, 4:20ish, 4:15ish, Jason will be on. So, we will have a full-on session of Technical Tuesday. It's been about a couple weeks since we've had it and that's because we've had big tech earnings. So, now that all those earnings are done, uh very excited to go through a lot of these numbers. What is happening in the market today? We got a lot of different headlines. You know, it's actually quite interesting. S&P 500 is green, meaning the broader market is green. 68297. What's red? Well, pretty much all the data center plays. I mean, data center plays absolutely getting wrecked today as you can see right here on the screen. Hive down two, Wolf down 14, CleanSpark down six, Ian down five, Cipher down six, Nebius down nine about to go below 100, 98 was the support on October 2020 on October 22nd. So, if it violates that 98, you will be getting a new 3-week low. Galaxy right there down three. Core getting hit the worst down 15% and then Apply Digital down 8%. Couple reasons why I think the data center plays are getting hit today. Number one, and we've been talking about this over the past couple days, there is a little bit more concern around the debt load that these companies are taking on. And Core yesterday on the earnings call for those that listen, they really, you know, made it very clear that they're going to be financing a lot of more activities through debt. Oracle, one of the larger cloud computing players that is also down 2% of the day, back down from 350 to 235, likely because of what we've got uh in regards to corporate debt becoming more of an issue. Having said that, I don't think it's just the debt profile of a lot of these companies that do indeed have debt and will engage in dilution. Again, a lot of that dilution could be accretive if that dilution is going to be good enough to be able to generate an ROI given that they're expanding data center capacity. One of the things that Nebia said today was that they sold as much capacity as they possibly had. The meta $3 billion deal quite frankly based on what Nebby said would have been a lot larger. It's just they didn't have more capacity to give uh to give out to to the hyperscalers. Um, that shows me that demand is not a problem. And based on what Lisa Sue said, which we'll look at in a second, she had her AMD investor. That was a very big deal in terms of the numbers she put out there. I think it's not just that much about debt. I think it's also about this trade is just getting crowded and people got kind of tired of it. And quite frankly, as someone who wants to actually establish a real position in Nebius, I like it. I I I think it's healthy for a lot of these plays to just take a breather, especially if there's not a fundamental reason why I think these plays are getting hit. Now, Cororee, you could speak to some of the fundamentals around their debt load. Neb, I'm sure there's some red flags that people could find out in the earnings. Overall, I didn't see too many, but I understand the stock being down 9%. Rocket Lab had a phenomenal earnings. That stock was up 12%, now it's back down. You might be seeing a little bit of a broadening out trade in the broader market given the S&P 500 is green, but a lot of the tech names are red. uh which I thought was pretty fascinating. S&P was red most of the day and it kind of just flipped green about 20 minutes ago. But Nvidia is down 3%. I mean Nebius and Cipher and Wolf are not going up on a day when Nvidia is down 3%. Uh same when AMD is down 2.5% and we'll talk about AMD in a second. Google end up going green right here at 291 and Amazon as well at 249. This is a flight to safety. It might be a flight to safety. You got pounder down, Tesla down, Nvidia down, hood down. Now they're not all down some dramatic amount. seven, eight percent, they're down one to three percent. The data center players are the ones that are getting hit most. And I think that's where you might be seeing a little bit more of a flight to safety of people just saying, you know what, I have enough profits in this uh stock or in these basket of stocks and therefore I don't need to continue doubling down on these names. So, I don't know what the sort of fundamental argument would be for why some of these names are down. Maybe the Nvidia headline is spooking people. The idea that Soft Banks sold some of their stake. We talked about that in the morning. What did Soft Bank say they're going to do with their $6 billion of Nvidia? They're going to give it to OpenAI, which is going to buy more Nvidia chips, which is going to have to use more hyperscalers to get more NeoClouds deals to be able to prop up the entire data center ecosystem. So, it's not really net bearish. I just think the trade got a little fatigue today and as a result, you're seeing a flushing out, which I think is actually pretty damn healthy. Having said that, the net bullish sentiment should be long on a lot of the stuff because here's what Lisa Sue said today at her investor day. Now, as exciting as the data center AI, you know, revenue opportunity is for us, um the other message that we want to leave you with today is every other part of our business is firing on all cylinders. And um that's actually a very nice place to be. Um some of the other, you know, key targets that we're going to talk about today are um areas where we think we have the ability to grow significantly ahead of the market um dynamics. So um on the server side, Dan McNamera is going to show you uh sitting currently at approximately 40% share, we have a clear path to over 50% uh revenue share of the server market over a larger TAM um over the next uh 3 to 5 years. Um Jack will talk about our client uh revenue market share. We're sitting, let's call it, in the high 20s right now. um again a clear path to over 40% client revenue market share um in this three to five year time frame and then cel will talk about uh
>> the 70% adaptive revenue market share is the last thing that she's talking about and I mean it's it's pretty damn incredible so basically Sue said demand for AI computing infrastructure remains extremely high customers are not reducing their investments in AI AMD is projecting annual revenue growth of 35% over the next three to five years again one of the biggest knocks on them in Q2 was that they, you know, were growing at 22 23%, data centers at 14%. So they pretty much up the ante on the expectations, which is pretty much what every analyst wanted to hear and they're forecasting data center growth exceeding 80% ker. So again, when you see stuff like this and there was a lot of other tidbits that Lisa Sue had to say, but they did not disappoint in terms of the level of excitement that they brought to the overall uh data center thesis as more and more demand for AI comput infrastructure continues to remain high. Now the stock being down today again I think that is a function of Nvidia being down the broader market kind of consolidating a little bit. One thing to also remember is uh today's Veterans Day, right? So you have the credit markets that are uh closed which means across the board you've been seeing low volume. You could have a lot of different hedge fund managers uh going back and forth in terms of names they're getting in and out of due to the lack of volatility and due to the lack of volume today. So tomorrow potentially is a different story, but there's not a crazy macro headline that I saw today from Trump or that I saw from the data centers that would be causing a little bit of the AI trade to be in question. And then again, you got Amazon and Google that are definitely big parts of the AI trade. Those are green today. Nvidia down 3%, Nvidia was up 6% yesterday. So it's one of those days where there's not a lot of explanation for it, but I do think it is healthy because, you know, I ran at 80 a couple days ago probably was getting ahead of itself. I ran at 57. I don't know if that's the best deal, but that's definitely a better deal than this stock running to 80 for, you know, one could argue no reason. Uh, same thing with Nebius going up to 130, 140. It's like now that's down back to 100 seems a lot more reasonable. Coreeave, again, probably more of a fundamental reason. Got some downgrades today, but that stock plagued with a lot of debt and that's why that's one that one is down 16%. Uh, Ethereum, this one has also been relatively quiet today, 3,400. Same thing with Bitcoin. Nothing too crazy. I mean, well, now it's down below 103. It was at 105 in the morning. 102.7. Ethereum, Bitcoin not really making that big of a move. Bit mine is back down below 40 because Ethereum continues to take a hit and Micro Strategy at 231. That's down to the 3% on the day. Same thing with Hood. Same thing with Coinbase. A lot of the crypto derivatives or data center derivatives plays did get hit. AS got a Bank of America $85 price target. I think they reiterated their buy in $85 price target, but even AS earnings is flat on the day. PaloAlto's up a little bit. Nphase down 6% on the day. Circle down 5%. Another crypto play at 98 bucks. That's now below 100. S&P still green 683 right there on the S&P actually pumping as we get into the close, which quite frankly means there's has to be a bit of a rotation. We do have Oaklow earnings after the bell that we'll look at. And this is your rotation. Take a look at this. So consumer defensives like a Walmart are green. Healthcare like a Eli Liy all-time highs today. J&J Abby that's up. And then you got tech and semiconductors that are down. So yesterday this was kind of the opposite. Walmart was down, Lily was down, and you know, Nvidia was literally going to the moon. And today kind of had a reversal, which means all the data center plays, crypto plays that are attached to a lot of the big tech names associated in that space. They're also going to take some of those companies to go down as well. So I mean, it's just one of those days. Nothing too crazy. There's not a lot of headlines. We talked in the morning. Oh, I do have one thing for you guys. Uh we talked about Trump's tweets in the morning about the Supreme Court. Um again, it's just not looking pretty for this importers today said. So, so one of the re one of the core arguments I said for why uh the Supreme Court would not overturn the Trump tariffs is because they would be practical and say, "Hey, if we did this, all this money would have to be reversed. Like that's probably not something we want to cause. We have to think about ultimately uh the practicality of us making this decision." Today, American importers said that if the Supreme Court rules that the money they have paid for President Trump's tariffs must be repaid, it would be simple to do so. They said importers pointed to paperwork that clearly details the tariffs they pay on goods brought into the US and it would be very easy to refund the money. So, every time you think maybe the Supreme Court would go in the opposite direction. Now, even the people having to pay back the money, they're saying to be honest, it wouldn't be that hard. It would be pretty easy, which is not good for Trump. And then you have CNBC reporting that during oral arguments last Wednesday for a case that will decide the fate of Trump's tariffs, most Supreme Court justices expressed skepticism that the duties were legal. And so I think we're going to have to see how this ends up playing out. Obviously, it could be pretty dramatic if we do have to end up paying a lot of that money. Tesla, by the way, trying to go green into the close 440. It was at 432 today. You're getting a bit of a green candle. Same thing with Palenteer. Getting a green candle right there as well. 191. So has been pretty green all day. 30.91. They are bringing crypto back to the platform. But obviously the tariff saga will continue as we get towards the end of the day. Oh, we got a Wall Street Journal headline. Oh boy, what is this? Fanny May probed how PY obtained mortgage records of key Democrats. FHFA's acting inspector general handed probe report to US attorney office that had indicted New York Attorney General Leticia James. Oh boy. This is this is I I was wondering how he obtained those records as well. I think all of us were wondering how that was happening. Fanny's ethics and investigation group had received internal complaints alleging senior officials had improperly directed staff to access the mortgage documents of James and others according to the people. All right, I'll dive deeper into the story. I'm just getting the headline right now. Let's get an update on the shutdown, but that just broke. We have some other updates on Fanny May as well in terms of how they're thinking of making mortgages more uh affordable for people and we'll go through that headline in a second. It actually has to do not with a 50-year mortgage but more with credit ratings.
>> Hey Scott. Well, yeah. House members look right now they are making their way back to DC for the first time in more than 50 days to vote tomorrow afternoon to reopen the government. We're expecting that around 4 p.m. Might be a little later. And look, if there's any sign that this will not pass, we haven't seen it yet. It seems full speed ahead. Granted, Republicans, they can only afford to lose two members, but that's what they lost last time. And remember, they actually had one Democrat join them. And Trump has already congratulated Republicans on reopening the government. So again, lots of momentum there in this getting done tomorrow, which means we're now looking ahead. The Senate is now trying to see if there is any path on extending those Affordable Care Act tax credits. But Republicans are eyeing bigger changes to Obama's signature healthc care law. Republican Senator Eric Schmidt said part of the goal would be to find a way to limit the funds that can go to insurance companies.
>> Okay, so it looks like the House is going to take a vote tomorrow. That vote is going to be really important. The Republicans really don't have any votes to lose, so they've got to be able to get as many votes as they can. And if that's the case, then maybe the government reopens by the end of the week. That could obviously be a tailwind for the broader macro. Maybe that's also why the S&P is getting a little bit of a pump right here at 682. But it is nice to see that the government reopening could happen by the end of the week. And if that happens, that would obviously be pretty bullish. Yes, I wish they were voting today, but you know, at least if they vote by tomorrow, um then you're going to have some more momentum to get us open. App right here down 9% on the day. This one getting hit and phase down six. Oplo has earnings in the next 10 minutes. Do we get them at 4? Do we get them at 410? We got about 40 seconds until the market closes. I think we get them at like around 405. Again, Street's expecting zero revenue and zero EP or I think they're expecting them to lose like 17 cents a share. I'll get the exact numbers in a second. Oak right here down 6%. Pretty much all the momentum names, high beta momentum. If you've been running up over the past couple of months, you are getting hit today. I think that's okay. I think that's also really healthy with the S&P green, but a lot of those momentum names down. Um, and a lot of that's probably creating a lot more consolidation for the market to be able to figure out what names deserve that capital. So, we will get those Oakland results soon and then in about 20 minutes, Jason will be on and we will get into technical Tuesday for the first time after a couple weeks. Thank you everybody for being here. It is Tuesday, November 11, 4 p.m. The stock market is now closed. All right, we're done for the day. We ended green on the S SNP, even if the broader market, or at least players in the market, specifically in tech, ended red. Um, but at least we are green on the S&P, which is nice to see. 682. By the way, Street's expecting zero of revenue and negative 13 cents of EPS. So, I mean, honestly, if Oaklo sold like some t-shirts, they might be able to bring in a little bit more than zero in revenue, but we're going to find out. Oh, I should do a pump or dump in the chat. What do we think? Honestly, I have no clue. Oaklo is down from 193. So, like, sure, you could say dump, but then again, it's down a lot. And there could be an argument that, you know, any any any bullish piece of news brings it higher. But we will find out soon. Oaklo pump or dump. What are people thinking? S&P 500 682. Nvidia down 3% on the day. Tesla down 1%. Palanteer down 1.35. Hoodie down 3%. SoFi actually up 1.2%. Google back above the 290s. Grab flat on the day at 590. Reddit at 208 to Meta 627. Amazon at 249. Salesforce up about 1%. Then PayPal up about 2% on the day. Bitcoin right here at 102.7. Ethereum at 3434. That's why BMR is below 40 at 3956. Crowd Strike flat on the day. Coinbase down 4%. Then Cororeweave, just ugly day for Coreweave down 16%. There's got to be something else in the earnings outside of that fourth quarter delay in the debt stuff that's getting the street to be upset. But nonetheless, that's getting hit. Nebas 10235 got a little bit of a bounce off 100. It did hit 99.83. It did hit 99.83, bounced off 99. 98 was the low a couple weeks ago. So if it gets uh past 98, we would be interested to see what the new lows would be. potentially 94 given that's where it was on October 17th. Irrene this one also 5752 a little bit of a bounce at the close as well down about 4% on the day and then Cipher down 5% on the day as well. Oaklo earnings are out. What do we got for Oakllo? Um stock is up a little bit after hours. You see that green candle? uh no revenue and they lost 20 cents a share instead of 13 cents a share. They missed by 54% on EPS. They missed by 54% on EPS and no revenue. Stock's green. You got a stock that's green, baby. Oaklo 48%. It was up 2% at one point. We'll see if that holds. What did you guys say in the chat? Did you say pump or dump? 75% said dump. All right, so we'll see if the one this one ends up dumping. Damn, they missed by 54%. 20 cents a share of a loss. I think there's a bright future for nuclear energy in this country and I think there is a lot of need for nuclear energy via AI. I just, you know, do you give a company this much market cap for not really executing on any of it yet? That's the broader question. Now you're seeing a little bit of a dump after hours. Oaklo down about 0 75% as that one goes red. I think that's pretty much the only earnings we have today, right? It's Oaklo and do we have any other earnings? We had Neb in the morning, C Limited in the morning. I think that's pretty much it. It's pretty much Oaklo. Oaklo right there at 10350 after hours. And that's what we got. S&P still green. Nvidia down about 2.9. Grab again flat. And then Uber right here flat as well in the day. Circles today. No, circle's not today. Circle is uh circle's tomorrow morning. Circle's tomorrow morning. So is DLO. DLO's tomorrow morning as well or tomorrow afternoon. So that's what you got on Oakllo. That's what you got on Oaklo. Missed by 54% in line with expectations. All right, so we'll have Jason on in about 15 minutes. I want to talk a little bit more about this AI debt trade that's creating some fear. And quite frankly, this could also be why a lot of the data center plays took a little bit of a hit. But here's a little bit of coverage on that. Oaklo now starting to get a little bit more of a dump and uh then we'll keep going from there.
>> AI is still the market's f
>> Let me just pull this up. Okay.
>> Trade, but cracks are starting to show. You mentioned some of them. Stock bank cashing out on Nvidia raises fresh valuation questions. Bur's warning is aimed at the mega caps that are carrying the broader markets. And the move to borrowing is turning AI from a growth story into a leverage story. That's what makes this moment different. The easier initial gains from the hype and the multiple expansion that may now be behind us as investors, they're weighing the cost of keeping the boom alive. Now, this chart you see, it's Meta versus Alphabet over the last few months, and it really sums up a shift in the AI trade. The market is rewarding players like Google that are selling basic AI services. Meta on the other hand where spending is outpacing revenue gains that's being punished for promises without payoff. Another way of putting it is tools and services versus a vision and the market right now wants to see results. Scott debt meanwhile that is certainly reshaping what powers the AI trade and it's adding more risk. The buildout it's no longer being fueled by venture capital or profits. It's loans bonds. private credit and that gives bears like Michael Bur more ammunition.
>> D, thank you.
>> So, that debt argument again, I'm just hearing a lot and lot more of people talking about this. I think Michael Bur, whatever he's going to talk about on November 25th when he announces his book or whatever else he does on that day. Um, might be about this idea around debt and corporate debt. Now, again, I'm still trying to figure out how much of an issue is that. The reason people are freaking out about it, Oklahoma right here, down 4%. is because in in in in 2000 in in the dotcom bubble that was one of the core ways that um the telecommunication companies financed a lot of their buildout of the internet which was through debt and obviously that didn't end up working out. A lot of those companies went bankrupt and that created the idea of a bubble. The reason a lot of people think that AI is going to have a fundamentally different trajectory here is because there is a lot more promising technology in the context of how they generate that ROI. But to get there, you obviously need money. And over the past couple years, it was free cash flow. Now it ends up being debt. And it's not just, you know, um um Oracle, it's also Google and Meta. The question is just how much debt becomes unsustainable. And you got I mean, I was reading one article today saying it's going to be a trillion dollars in the next couple years. And that to me sounds aggressive. And so I'm trying to validate sources and be like, how serious will the debt become? Right now it's a hundred billion. Could I imagine getting it to a trillion? Yeah, given how much demand there is. Uh do I think it's healthy to have a trillion of capex finance via debt? probably not. I also wonder if the credit markets would even allow that to happen. I mean, the reason Oracle is able to raise 35 billion is because the credit markets are okay with a 6.5% corporate bond. I mean, if they were asking for like 9 or 10% because of the risk that they are taking on by holding on to Oracle stock, you might not have the same type of ability for Oracle to raise this money. So, the only reason it's working is because private credit is okay with some of the rates that they're getting. It's definitely higher than a treasury on the 10-year, but I don't know if that ends up expanding to be as aggressive as some of the fears that the market may be having. By the way, the 10-year right here, 4.122, that one continued to go higher today. Gold also big winner today, up.37%. Silver up almost 2%. So, gold and the tenure continuing to rise higher today. Uh, yes, Oakllo missed on earnings 57% EPS miss and zero revenue on Oaklow as well. Again, the broader concerns around debt I think are warranted. I mean even Nebius is announcing more dilution and they have this at the money offering. Iran has dilute. All these companies have dilution. The question becomes as an investor. Are you okay with the dilution in order to allow them to grow? And when you hear things from Anbius that says we only were able to get a $3 billion deal with Meta because we literally don't have enough capacity otherwise Meta would have paid us a lot more money. When you hear things from Ire saying we are only licensing 12% of our all of our overall available facilities and we have so much more room to grow and the demand is there to be able to get those deals to build out those data centers. It becomes a lot more encouraging that the debt they're taking on is not for a faulty reason. It's for something real. It's just how much is the market going to be able to put up with it is the broader question. Oracle right here still down on the day. Oakla recovering a little bit, bounced off 99, actually holding 100 pretty well and now at 10250. SoFi 31. SoFi had a great day again. Notto bringing crypto back to SoFi. You're going to be able to invest right through your bank account in cryptocurrencies. SoFi right there $31 after hours as that one continues to go green. So again, on a day like this, I think the summary is S&P ended green, data center plays got smashed, which I think is actually very healthy since a lot of them were trading um just not even at aggressive multiples. You can make that argument, but just like in an aggressive fashion as in terms of how high they've gone up and so them taking a breather is not crazy. Open Door is up today. I think that's pretty much because the CEO said he was buying stocks. So that's why Open Door is up 7%. I can't think of a sort of another fundamental reason. Um and then you had crypto take a breather and that was kind of the extent of kind of how this end how this market ended up playing out today. Uh top 20 stocks traded in the options market and then we'll look at fear and greed. You had Nvidia, Tesla, Apple, Core and AMD actually take the top five. So Nvidia with 2 million, Tesla with a million, Apple with 800,000, Core, AMD open, Palanteer, Rivian, IBIT, oh shout out to Riven. When Jason gets on, we'll talk about that. But massive day for Rivian up 7%. IBIT, Meta, Fizer also big day for Fizer was up 7%. Soundtown, Nebius at 303,000, SMCI, Amazon, Beyond Meat, Oracle, Cipher, Sofi, I rent. So, a lot of those data center plays ended up making the top 20 list of options that were traded today. AMD is moving after hours. Is it? AMD is up 4%. You are correct. Why is it moving after hours? That is a good question. Are we just getting a delayed reaction after investor day? AMD up 3.5. Let's see if there's a headline. I would imagine there was a deal. I doubt there's that much of a delayed reaction after 4 hours. Um, I don't see anything. Maybe they're having more conversations, not on tape right now. And Lisa Sue said something. It's a pretty big move, dude. 4% on AMD is not small. It's a $400 billion company. Look at that. Pushing 5% right here. 247. Nvidia is is Nvidia moving? That's a good question. Nvidia, yeah, Nvidia's Well, Nvidia is not moving 5%, but it's moving. Um, Nebius is moving as well. Iran is moving as well. All the data center players are moving. AMD kind of leading it here. Yeah, let me check CNBC. Let's see. Huh. Weird. The 35% revenue never number they announced like a couple hours ago, so I don't think that's the news. Uh CNBC doesn't have the headline. Yeah, that's a pretty big move on AMD. 5% is no joke. Investor day, I would imagine, is still going. Yeah. Uh and they might be saying something. Palunteer also going green. AMD now 4%. I mean, an after hours move like that, you would imagine there's some headline. Oaklo still down 3.4. So, that's going up. Margin guidance is higher. Yeah, but didn't they already give that like a couple hours ago? Unless they literally just said it. AMD CFO expects to drive greater than 35% revenue compounded annual growth rate in the next three to five years. Yeah, this came out five hours ago. Not five hours ago, two hours ago. That's the headline that I'm seeing across Bloomberg and CNBC, but that headline is old. Is the street really reacting to a headline from two hours ago now that it's like going viral? Okay, here's another one. I think this might be the headline. This might be the the better one. Um, this one No, this one might be it. AMDC's gross margin ranging between 55 to 58%. 55 to 58%. That might not have been disclosed a couple hours ago. I thought it was, but maybe it wasn't. Projected annual revenue growth at 35%. Data center revenue to grow 60% with a hundred billion annual run rate in 5 years. Lisa Seuss's total data center market will hit 1 trillion by 2030. Demand is insatiable. I think it's the gross margin. A lot of these other headlines are old. All right. AMD up 4%. It's bringing all the data center plays with it after hours. A lot of them moving in tandem again. AMD, Nvidia down on the day. Nebia, Cororeweave, all those guys are going to get hit. Is Cororeweave green after hours? Coreweave is trying to go green. It's like really trying. That's such a rad day. It's trying to get a little bit of action right here. But AMD up 4%. Okay, not bad. Good stuff for AMD as that one continues to go green again. Oaklo was the major earnings and that stock down about 2% after hours. Stock draft. I do own AMD in the stock draft which has been nice to have. We are up 35%. Matt's up 27. Steve's up six. Tanner's up 19. Chris is up five. You got AMD right there. We're up 87% on that after buying it at 126. Algorithm emit. Dude, I hate saying it's alos, but a lot of times it's these freaking algos. Like we know it is like all the data center plays go down and all of them go up at the same time. Like that is a lot of those names being put into a bucket and then the algorith dude I was reading an article this was about five months ago. The algorithms have become so strong they are using natural language processing. Obviously in the age of AI that makes it a lot easier. And um essentially every single freaking word of an earnings transcript of a CEO's statements right after the the earnings are released, etc., is being put into a digestive system to try to understand and make sense of what is being said. And you might have one word that triggers the NLP to be like, "Dump it." And you know, that happens more often than than not. And and you might have one word that says, "Pump it." So, it's not just a beat or miss on revenue and and EPS that triggers these algos. There's a lot more sophisticated stuff here. And, you know, that's why a lot of this stuff can take the street higher or lower. AMD right here up almost 5% after hours. Nice to see that going green as well. Jason should be on in about five minutes. He's hopping on in a second. Um and then we will get into into technical Tuesday. Um Apple is still green after hours. AMD 247. See if it can crack 250. Apple right there. Two. Wow. Apple actually did 270. Apple was up 2% on the day. 275 for Apple. Not bad. That one continuing to move after hours. Oaklo it is down 1.4. Okay, there you go. How did Rocket Lab go red? I don't know. But you had a lot of these growth stocks sell off towards the end of the day, which again, it was one of those days. I mean, even Grab, right? I I had no faith that Grab was actually going to hold on to the green. So, you had a lot of these names sell off on a day when Nvidia sells off. Most of these names are going to come down with it. But I think after the day we had yesterday, it's not crazy to see some of that consolidation. Nebas right there up a little bit after hours. And then Corey finally going green. Look at that. AMD actually bringing Core Week back to life. Almost nothing gave Cororee a green candle today. This AMD move kind of helping it out right there. That's up 3.8%. Okay, before we get into technical Tuesday, I did want to show everybody some new stuff that came out from a macro perspective. Um, so here's what Fanny May is thinking of. They're thinking of dropping their credit requirements on getting a mortgage. Fanny May is set to drop its 620 credit score minimum. The mortgage giant will instead use its own analysis of risk factors. Officials say they're easing barriers to borrowing. These are from homes.com. It's just the latest in a series of policy changes aimed at creating home ownership opportunities in the United States. So, there's two things that are going on right now that have a lot of people tweeting Michael Bur memes from the big short. Uh, and you've got people just thinking, goodness, like, is this really happening? Number one is this whole fifth year mortgage. And then number two is the idea of dropping credit requirements in order to qualify for a mortgage, which the last time we did that at a scale where, you know, things got a bit out of hand was in 2008. That didn't work out too well. So, I don't know what to make of this yet. I wanted to bring it to people's attention, but obviously this administration is focused on affordability. They're focused on getting the average price of a home down or at least the average price of a monthly payment on a home down. And reducing credit requirements is a great way to get more people to buy homes. The question is, is it the best thing for the economy? Here was Trump yesterday speaking about the fifth year mortgage as well.
>> Housing costs are still out of reach. And another thing that your administration is trying to tackle, uh, many Americans, the average age of firsttime home buyers and now up to age 40, which is sad the country you and I,
>> I inherited that. Look, you have to understand,
>> right? But let me let me get to the question though because your your housing director has proposed something that has enraged your MAGA friends, which is this 50-year mortgage idea. So, a significant MAGA uh backlash calling it a giveaway to the banks and simply prolonging uh the the time it would take for Americans to own a home outright. Is that really a good idea?
>> It's not even a big deal. I mean, you know, you go from 40 to 50 years
>> and what it means is you pay you pay something less from 30 that some people had a 40 and then that now they have a 50. All it means is you pay less per month. You pay it over a longer period of time. It's not like a big factor. It might help a little bit, but the problem was that Biden did this. He increased the interest rates, and I have a lousy Fed person who's going to be gone in a few months for
>> So, that was Trump's defense of a 50-year mortgage. Now, UBS did some analysis on it today, and they said on a average $420,000 home, the lower monthly payments on your fifth year mortgage versus 30-year mortgage would be about $119. So, you'd save about 23 grand on the monthly payments. But by stretching the loan from 30 to 50 years, it would roughly double the total interest that you pay and obviously slow down the rate of time for homeowners to build equity. So, I think this administration is trying a lot of different ideas. We're going to see how it ends up playing out. I do want to bring it to people's attention, though, because at the end of the day, like we've got to keep a track on what's going on with the bifurcation of this economy, and we really have to keep a track on what's going on in the credit part of the market. the whole regional bank stuff that we had a couple weeks ago, that was an absolute nothing burger. Reducing credit requirements to buy a house, that could be a something burger, especially if it starts to spiral, and nothing has happened to that extent yet, at least from my knowledge, but it's something you got to have on your on your radar if you're an investor, because obviously these things will matter long term if they end up playing out. So, there you go. That's what we got going on. Thank you everybody for being here. We're going to get into technical Tuesday. For those that are new to the channel, this is when I bring on, in my opinion, the world's best TA expert onto the show and uh we do some work on some of these names. I have a hard stop today at 7 PM Eastern. So, we have, I think, more than enough time, about two and a half hours, and I'm sure Jason has to get out of here as well around seven uh to get through these names. We're going to go through sort of the top 15 to 20 names, the Nvidas, Teslas, Palenters, Robin Hood, all those names that matter. And then we will take audience requests. I will put a Google doc in the chat and pin it so you guys can see exactly which names we've already done. Um, and so we'll take requests in about an hour and we'll get through some of the main names first and we'll keep going from there. Having said that, it has been a long two weeks without doing this and I am very very happy to roll the intro. dude. I love that intro.
>> We made it back, baby.
>> We made it back.
>> Do you know how much people miss you?
>> It's been a long time, man.
>> Look at this guy. Stop yapping and bring out the agency. Like, people just are dying to see,
>> dude. It's been a while. I missed everybody. But
>> it's been a long two weeks, but it's good because now we had all the earnings finished, so we can actually
>> we well we've had all we've had we've had all the mega cap except for you know the beloved Nvida Nvidia still to come. Feel like the market's almost like you know waiting for that to to hit still. Um
>> agreed.
>> Yeah, that's that's going to be the next one. Well, the big one and then and then in between now and then we have a lot of small gaps. But um but yeah, so we still we still got a lot of stuff going on. A lot of stuff going on. So hopefully this is it. So, I'm kind of I mean, it's it's funny because it was looking really short into last was it Friday and then instantly like it was looking ugly like it was looking ugly Friday afternoon and then all of a sudden, you know, just the that's that's how that's I mean that's how it goes, right? But how how quickly things can turn on what was it just the last half of Friday and then instantly just on the idea that maybe just maybe the government would open back up and then boom reverse right back to the highs on Friday and then here we are just kind of trying to to let the dust settle and see how how you know if it can actually sustain. But um but yeah I think you'd posted a couple things. for like close to what was it? Max fear, extreme fear, what's it called on the fear and greed.
>> Yep. Extreme fear.
>> Um even though it doesn't really feel like it uh even near near the highs, but the VIX, if you guys look at the VIX, that was anytime the VIX is like over 25, which we didn't get to. We got to like 22 and a half, that's usually a good indication that all right, well, it's probably time to start looking at at picking some things off. Um, but in the moment it's it's man, it's it's always hard. In the moment it's always hard cuz things can get things can go sideways, right? And and you know if if the sentiment is not fun like well things can kind of just blow past what you think is your technical support which is what today is about, right? So, I mean, we'll we'll maybe look at some people's investments and stuff, but um but my thing right now is just to preface this with with hey, look, we were we were at uh last week probably peak bad news, right? We said tariff stuff coming on. Government's been shut down. No sign of that ending. Now, at least we have a sign of maybe it might reopen. We still have tariff stuff coming in. Um that's to deal with. And if if those if those primary things come off then, you know, it could be instantly about face and uh back to back to the highs. We'll see. But it wasn't that big of a discount either, which is kind of the disappointing thing because I wanted a I wanted a big discount and we didn't really get it.
>> So, let's start off with SPY then. And I'm curious kind of how you're thinking of the broader market because 683 I mean it's less than half a percent away from alltime highs which is really nice to see but on Friday
>> we were pushing 659. So definitely curious how you're thinking of the broader market right here as well.
>> Yeah I think that's the thing. So um also for the noobs I'm going to pull up the clock. This should work. I think it's going to work. That's
>> There you go.
>> Is it working? It's not working.
>> It goes. Are you doing it in a new way that you did from last time?
>> I just forgot. It's been so long, dude, that I forgot how to do it. Wait, maybe I need to do it like that. There you go.
>> Perfect. Perfect.
>> There it is. All right. So, five minute timer so I don't go too far over. At least for the primary ones. So, spy spy, this is like the broad index. Um, one thing I will say is that there's SPY, Q's, IWM, which is the redheaded step child of the indices, if you will, indices, indexes, uh, and and diamonds or DIA. And, uh, usually if you're looking for a good trend, then then you're looking for all of those to go in the same direction. And we don't have that right now. Um, we have what we call like u almost like divergence isn't really the right word but some are more some are stronger than others. Q's is actually currently like the weaker of of the indices. Um, and what that what that means is that we're seeing a little bit of broadening across the board. Uh, the the yellow lines which you may not um may not be super clear on my screen. I think this is okay. Does this look okay on the screen share?
>> Yeah. No, that's fair. That's good.
>> Um, so this is last month right here. And I'll just make this I don't know bright yellow four that's showing up.
>> Yeah, it's easy to see that. That's not too bad.
>> So that is uh September high. So not not October. This is September high. Um, we kind of dipped right into that right over here. And the blue line is the 50-day simple moving average. The white line on my screen is the 20-day simple moving average. Those are the the the squiggly lines. These lines here, this is last week's low and this is last week's high. So, this stuff is important right now because what happened is that we went down, we we breached last week's low. We came in, we retested September's monthly high from monthly candle. Like if I turned this onto a monthly candlestick. Basically, we just tapped that prior month, a September month high, tested it, and reclaimed all the way back. So, I'm going to go back to a daily chart here. And then from a weekly perspective, well, now we're back into last week's range, which is fairly constructive, meaning we didn't continue on down the road. In terms of our trend, we are actually still we're still very much intact. So, the trend is still up. We had a little brief love tap, which, you know, was it probably felt rough in the midst of it, but here we are kind of back towards the highs and right back to last week's level. um in the absence of non-farm payrolls. I'm using ADP levels which have actually been holding pretty steady and and right now this is um this is November's ADP high. So with the absence of official NFP, the market actually has been operating off of ADP um oddly enough. And and so for that that's 680 and and really it's last week's low of 678. So, as long as we can actually hold within this kind of range, if we can kind of come in, chop around like that, that's going to be good at least to 690, that's going to be that that's all-time highs really. Um, but what I'm looking for in order for me to get that kind of what we call confirmation right now, I don't have that. what confirmation is going to look like and this is maybe a little bit more advanced is what what we need to see is we need to see multiple days opening and closing above. So tomorrow is going to be an important day. Today not so important because the bond market is closed and we don't have the full participants in the market today because a lot of people didn't have their cash available because if you we didn't have the day traders in the market today because their cash was still hung up hadn't cleared yet. Um,
>> do you do you like that we ended green even though Nvidia was red? You think that was productive? The S&P? I
>> I think that's exactly the broadening that I'm talking about. So, the the broadening of the of the market as a whole is uh is important is an important note. So, even if the mega caps don't come down, I'm running out of time here. Um, even I'm sorry, even if the mega caps don't go up, what's what's happening under the hood to tell you that this is in fact not a bare market is that other components are catching a bit. other components are being lifted and helping out uh lift the broader trend. Even even though the Mag 7 or the main things like even a Palunteer or Robin Hood might not be participating like they normally would, we have other B team players that are coming up, C team players even that are coming up and and for an assist and actually continuing on the trend and and we in in that instance, it's it's it's a cool thing to see. It's it's it's a healthy thing. what's unhealthy and um and the piece that would have been the canary and the coal mine. And since I'm done with spy, the trend is intact. That's what's important for SPY. I'll move on to the dollar index. And I posted this on my timeline. This was kind of like that canary in the coal mine, if you will. And I know you didn't ask for this chart, but I think this is one of the most important charts in the market right now. This is this is the dollar weighted index. Dixie is not the dollar itself, but it's the dollar weighted against a basket of other currencies. Um, sorry, I say Dixie. Traders call this the Dixie. DXY is the term or is the ticker. It's uh it's actually not a dollar amount. So, it's just 99 right now. But it had bottom out bottomed out around 96. If I pull this back and I and we look at this, this is um I mean this is pretty much the center line of this chart right now. And for for the more recent length of time, it's actually been slowly grind grinding lower. And this more recent um press to the upside in equities has been kind of and and gold has been coincided with a big press to the downside uh recently in the dollar. And and even in near-term and we think about this very myopically, very short-term view is that if everything that we're trading is denominated in dollars, well, if the value of dollars themselves are going up, this is almost like inflationish. uh if the value of the dollars themselves are going up, well then the things that we're trading are going to cost less dollars uh to buy in in their value and and therefore they might come down a little bit from that perspective. Longer term, it's a totally different view. This is, like I said, very, very myopic, very short-term view. But how the market knee-jerk reacts when we have this kind of press to the upside, it's a stutter step sideways and maybe in these very short bursts of movement here, this is that little pullback that we'll see in in the broader market. And the fact that this ran right up into that 100 resistance and met the 200 day simple moving average and stopped on a dime. When I say resistance, we can look back. Resistance, resistance. And I can pull this chart back and look at this. We are actually we already did. This is a massive pivot and currently not breaking through. Actually kind of constructive. Uh, you know, I'd like to see a weak dollar in general for to be uber bullish on assets, but um, you know, two week is not good enough. There's a whole another discussion there. But as long as the dollar doesn't explode in our faces to the upside, this is this is generally constructive. Also, why we'd see a little bit of a pop in gold, things like that, this little rejection.
>> Trump likes a low dollar as well.
>> Yeah. So I think this is this is important to see now right now where we are we're kind of you know at a bit of a support level. So it also means that hey look we could go sideways and as long as as long as this starts to as long as it doesn't go too far too fast. It can go up and that's fine. But if it if it explodes in one direction or the other, that's when the market's going to be like, "All right, well, maybe I need to readjust here for a little bit." And we might see some knee-jerk reactions in the market itself. But this is constructive um and more sideway sideways action for the dollar is going to be generally constructive um for the equity markets as a whole also.
>> Okay, it's a fair point. Um I think
>> probably not a chart that everybody's watching but important.
>> No, definitely very important and obviously the one of the reasons why the markets have likely been strong this year is because the dollar has been weaker. Uh let's do pounder. I mean we had a pretty awesome earnings then you had the bur short fell all the way to 169. What are you thinking of pounder in the the 185 190?
>> Um so pound I mean congrats by the way congrats. Not quite to 220 I think after hours like if I turn my after hours there it is. So the measured move was to 220 and you know unfortunately sometimes it works out this way where you get to your target upside target and it it's all in the aftermarket and it doesn't you know present itself or hold necessarily in in the open market. And that's kind of what happens here on Palunteer. This was the move target acquired. That's how it goes sometimes. But to be constructive here, what happened is that this came back down and retest the same area it just broke out of. Right? So this area here was what was acting as support where buyers were were showing up right here in that 170 area. So if I zoom out and I and I just drag that straight across like you can see it show up. So we have multiple tests here. One, two, what is that? I mean, one, two, three, four, five, six tests. Six is a lot. I didn't I didn't realize it was six times, dude. That's a lot.
>> It was very choppy that week.
>> Yeah. So, six times it's gotten to that 170. I would um not like to see that get tested a whole lot more.
>> Um
>> yeah, just so here's the deal. Why I say that? And if you're if you're not familiar with support and resistance, they're like, you know, if a if if price is like a BN ram coming up against a door, right? If it's a floor and a ceiling, you can only take that hit so many times before the and every time you take that hit, the door gets weaker and weaker and weaker until it finally blasts through. And six is a lot. Um, but the bulls are holding and and that's also true. What I'd like to see is this hold um higher up here. So, this area that was prior resistance, what we're going to be looking for is called a it's called an SR flip or where resistance becomes support. And that's more towards this 180 kind of three level. So down here, here, right here, it's about 180 where that actually turned into support for just a little bit. I'm looking at this level, these guys, where this ended up being resistance. All of this, this is multiple tests as well. I want to see the people that sold here, anybody that was getting short in this area, Bur Cough, cough, whatever, whoever it is, I don't know, right? um anybody was that was selling here. What we want to see the story of price action start to tell us is that we want to see them turn into buyers and cover their shorts which kind of is what we saw a little bit today. And so exactly at this level and I'm going to call it a zone because price a because support and resistance is you know it's not exactly a hard line in the sand. That's that's that's important to understand also um is that we see one test here 185 and we see some buying action come in literally today and if this area holds I can see price chopping like this but I want to see that kind of price action where where buyers step in right around this 185 type level. It can come into 180 but I still want to see buyers step in down here as well. And I want to see those shorts really cover. I'm going to call out 17880 specifically uh as the 50-day simple moving average as as really like a a higher value target. Not necessarily a buy spot, but a spot where Palunteer can come down to and then I would like to see it bounce. The issue with this right now, and this is a big issue, is that this spot here is a lower high. This is definitively a higher high. So, HH for higher high, but this is a lower high. Sorry, not very good here. Um, and this is a equal low. Equal low. So, best case scenario, what this chart is telling me is it's actually telling me chop. So, I would like to see this turn into consolidation, something something like this. And I would like to see Palunteer actually consolidate sideways for a bit and then we can see a better um press one way or the other. It's the the chart actually says to to wait right now until I have a a clearer sign. But but those are the things that you're looking for is is for that prior resistance to turn into support moving forward. If not, it's that's not exactly the best place. It's not like a buy zone. your trade location is better towards that 178 uh and where I would really hope to see uh buyers step in or shorts cover, not necessarily buyers step in, but shorts cover and I would be really cautious of this type of move. And if this does happen, our prior support is in this 160 from this area still. And I would definitely think that they would step in at that level.
>> Okay. Uh, this is not a core one, but definitely one that I think a lot of people care about on a day like this. Coreweave.
>> I I got a lot of questions about Core Weave, too. Um, so so personally, I do invoke the 3-day rule post earnings. Um but you know what we can see today is that all right so we're coming in we're testing the like the more recent double bottom and you know one thing I I'll say is that I just talked about a possible lower high on um Palunteer and that's that's important to note right this is a lower this is I mean this is technically double bottom. So, um, which is Amid's favorite favorite, um, technical spot if you didn't know. And it's really this. It's a real How come that didn't come in? It's really about this. So, this is like equal lows. I think we get to test this double bottom, which it looks like we're coming into right now. This may be close enough for government work. I hate the term, but it is what it is. And what do you mean with government work?
>> I It's just It's just a saying. My dad was the director of IT for the FAA. It's just it's just what I say. It's just a saying. We just say it. Um
>> I thought because there were there was
>> totally irrelevant. I'm sorry. I erased the core CEO said that the government should help out with the data center [__] So I was like, "Oh, are you saying that?"
>> Totally irrelevant comment. Um yeah, it's just saying people say it. Uh but so I think you get close to this. This probably creates some kind of um kind of level, but it I think what I think it could breach this. And here is what I'm going to call like a price of interest. And that's at basically the psychological level of $100. So remember, stocks over 85 get to 125. Stocks that lose 125, 120 usually come back to 85, possibly 75. And that's kind of like the trajectory that we're seeing. Um what what has to happen for coreweave right now is let me just make sure this right. Yeah. So we had lost the 108 that had to hold. Um we lost the $100 level that kind of had to hold. This is earnings. It's like a knee-jerk reaction. And we're going to test this double bottom. I don't think that you have to buy exactly on this, but if this is one, two, three retests are fine. I think on the third one, it probably breaches just slightly. And the number is, what is the number here? Let's get it. $85.26. So, I think it actually comes down and and it might breach that. What you're going to be looking for when it comes to defining support and resistance. And if I if I zoom in right over here when I say breach that. So you don't want to put like a hard stop. You don't want to have a resting order here cuz this is exactly what I'm talking about. There's a little tiny we call this a wick. If you if you put a a stop loss on at 85, you would have gotten wicked out at and you would have sold the low at $844. Like you don't want to do that. Um that would suck really bad. Uh, I think something like that could happen and but what you're looking for is you're looking for buyers to step up again over 85. So, it can get choppy in here. But when you see this kind of price action like that, if that happens, that that's going to be um that's going to be a telltale sign. Otherwise, we're sitting at 88. It's okay. Um, I'm being very precise, so I guess it doesn't matter. Around here is fine. As close to 85 as you can uh for a shot. It's possible that it breaks down below 75. Uh, and then you you might you might just sit there and wait. But I would I would really wait for buyers to show up um before stepping into this one because the momentum here is from that 135 breakdown. the momentum has been building to the downside and you want to see some kind of sideways action which would be would would would mean that the shorts are covering and we're not seeing that first. So that's what I'd like to see first is some kind of sideways action and then once I see some signs of life then it'll then it'll give me a a better cue. Otherwise I could just be stepping in front of a falling knife on this one. Yeah, and the data center plays got hit today, but coreweave got hit almost double than the average data center stock. So, I think there's something a little bit more street specific there that you're right about. Um,
>> yeah, so netnet 85 is interesting, but you need to see you need to see buyers step in.
>> Meta,
>> Mita, you know, the last time the last time I was here was a long time was two weeks ago. Three weeks ago,
>> we were at 750 round about
>> three weeks ago. You asked me what what price I would buy Meta at.
>> I think you said below six. I think Hold on. Okay. So, you know for sure. I think you said 630 or below.
>> Yeah.
>> Am I right? I think you said
>> Yeah, we're like right there. I I didn't think it would actually happen, right? But
>> either me either.
>> But I'll I'll tell you how we got there. So 633 was what and what I just did. Is that wild? I I mean wild 633 is measuring what we call from in a trading from a trading perspective we call this swing high to swing low meaning that you look at a chart from a very broad you zoom out right and I look at this is from a daily perspective I'm looking at a lot of time swing high swing low means the the most recent large low which is 479 most recent large high is is 796 so the swing low to swing high it's Just left to right is what it is. That's not high to low. It's just what it is. It's left to right. So swing low to swing high. In this case, a 50% pullback from here to here happens to be 63390. Again, with in in in support and resistance, what I need to see is I need to see um something very similar to this. So I could take these lines off. Um and and this is a good example. this this area right here of of what it looks like for something to go sideways, create a little bit of a bottom, and then for buyers to step in. And this time frame is about 20 days, give or take. So, it's not something that has to happen right away. This is not a V recovery. This is a sideways consolidation, and it gives buyers a chance to actually buy here. I would like to see this from Meta. Um that's at 63390 and that happened exactly there in the past. But what I don't have is a structural break. Since the downfall, since the commentary, I have nothing but lower highs and lower lows. I need to be crystal clear about that. There's nothing in this chart right now that shows me I should jump in other than maybe a higher low, but I don't have what I need to see is which would be a higher high. And that higher high has to show up over 634. The low was 585 and that's where I was going to get really interesting. So below 600 and this is how that this is how that works. Um and so I would still be very interested in buying more. I buy meta just below 600. And I think that that's still possible. I don't know what the what it is about round numbers. You know, it hit exactly 600. Everybody stepped in like instantly and they're still stepping in. So, we might not get below 600. I'll just leave it.
>> Have you nibbled at 6:30 at all or no?
>> Oh, I nibbled at 603 605.
>> Have you nibbled on Friday?
>> I've been nibbling. I've been nibbling because it's one of those stocks where I don't want to be overly precise.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> I don't. Right. I'm I'm going to tell you guys right now that this uh 590 level is is really like that's that's really what I'm that's my spot, right? 590. But do I get there 59233 there it is, right? I have a I have an imbalance in the market and that I have a lot of confluence from a price action perspective because this 63390 that is 50% draw down from that swing low to swing high. But when we lose that 50% level which by the way we have we have um in technical terms technical analysis is about statistics and probabilities we have like a 65% probability of actually seeing 58 585 if we cannot get back above 634. If we cannot get back above 634 we have a 65% probability of actually getting here. So those are the statistics. That's the math right now. If we can get back above, it's a near zero probability that this is happening. So we're trying to get back above, but we're not back above. And this this chart is currently in flux. Do the buyers like just start piling over themselves? I don't know. We need we're going to need to see sentiment change. But here now, this is a nibble spot for sure for me. Um, and I think it's if you're frustrated about it, not Vre recovering, this is going to come down to your personal time frame of how long you anticipate holding this. But I think sideways price action for a month even is actually going to be pretty healthy to let some people create a new investor base on Meta. And and with that 585ish level being a good solid low and I take that back all the way to that this by the way is that that broadening formation from our sessions of way back when
>> 585 is the center line of that initial breakout all the way back here.
>> I agree. One of the reasons I just started to start buying at 630 was because like I feel like I'm being way too greedy asking for 580. If it gets there it's like okay and that's fine but and there are concerns about Zucks and capping. All that stuff is legitimate
>> for sure.
>> Is it enough to take it down almost 30% from the highs? I don't know.
>> Yeah. So so as an aside this is a technical spot that should act as some kind of general support. It's like Boeing right here in the middle. We have a broad information. If this fails, look, this is all still possible. If the market decides that they hate Zuck, they hate Meta, it's never happening. I need to see what I need to see is I need to see buyers step in, right? We need to see this happen, right? We need to see people step in. And I'm just not I'm seeing a little bit of it, but not enough to push the price higher. All right, moving on.
>> Hoodie.
>> Hoodie. I um I haven't looked at it. I think same thing.
>> What do you mean you haven't looked at it? You You're cheating on hood. Like what do you mean you haven't?
>> No, I'm not cheating on hood.
>> You've gone multiple weeks without looking at hoodie.
>> Yeah, I'm just so not worried about it, dude.
>> No, that's not how it works, bro.
>> I'm I'm so like at at peace with my hoodie position. Like,
>> no. Vlad doesn't take days off, so we can't take days off. We got
>> No. I mean there are a lot of things like I said I think the market is in um it's broadening right and I you know there are going to be times where and I'm not saying this is going to happen but we've I've said this before there might be times in the market where you know things go sideways or your your stocks might not go like crazy par parabolic and and maybe just maybe there's a moment where people end up using my hoodie like their personal ATMs. I think this is like one of the best stocks in the market. Did you see their quarter by the way? Like bro, like that's how un like not worried I am about this. And so if I get um if I get something dumb like like you know 117. Yeah.
>> Did Did you think 125 was dumb or did you think that was just part for the core? I'll be honest with you, dude. I pulled an emitt. I pulled in a mid because I was already buying there and and I got greedy and I missed the dip like and I saw it happening and I was like, "Ah,
>> yeah." But you're also super overweight hood. So, it's
>> Oh, I'm super overweight hood. It's by far my largest position to this day. I'm just done selling it. I'm It's not It's gonna be my largest position for a long time. Um I'm super happy with this. I'm super happy with management, what they're doing, the execution, and like what they're producing. Like, yeah. Um, I'm happy. Um, but that said, what what's also true is that this is going into consolidation. If you didn't know, it is going into consolidation. And so, I think it needs some time for people to kind of understand that. And some blips along the road are fine. I think that if we I think it's possible to see like that 120 wick, but uh but yeah, that 120 was good. And I I think that every major dip on this gets bought, dude. Like I just I I just that's my that's my opinion. I have lots of opinions on a lot of different things and I'm wrong a lot of the time, by the way. So take it with a grain of salt. Um, this is not a thing. Um,
>> I also think it's healthy, dude. If it can consolidate from 120 to 150 even over the next six to 12 months, like I know that sucks because it's not going, but like that's okay. That really that's it's going to grow into its multiple and it's going to it's going to be very healthy for
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I'll just I'll just kind of go with this and just let you know where I'm at. So right now um if this is over 14 uh3 then we're going higher right now. Uh but I think this is the consolidation that we're going to be kind of traversing for a while like this and eventually we're going to get up and out. This is 143 right in here. And when that finally happens and and and so now you'll see what I'm thinking. This this picture that I just drew is is basically what I'm thinking, which is which is sideways. And you know, maybe people want it um to do that. To me, that's this is perfectly fine, perfectly normal. Um 175s, baby. 175s is where I'm going. And then I think we do this again. be fun if we have a Super Bowl run end of year as well.
>> Yeah. I don't So timeline on this is more like Q late Q2 maybe uh next year Q1
>> late late Q1 maybe into Q2.
>> Um because crypto is shaky. Crypto is on very shaky ground right now. I'm not going to I'm not going to mince those that one. Um it is it is very shaky. I've not been super bullish on crypto. um here. I think that there's still possible liquidity grabs that could happen. Um BMR broke down. Uh I think it's still testing levels of support. I think it's I'm not selling it. Uh I'm still like DCAing it, but I I think it could still chop around and and this in the near term is still going to the market still kind of associates this a lot with crypto. And the more that that Vlatty uh associates Hood with, you know, layer 2 blockchain stuff, the more associated it gets with that. Um, you know, and and we'll see where it goes. But net net. Yeah. No, I'm not I'm not worried about this. And if I get big discounts, I mean, this is number one on my shopping list.
>> Agreed. Uh, AMD,
>> he agreed, you guys. Number one.
>> I agree with everything you say, bro. And if I don't,
>> it really doesn't mean anything. But
>> oh god. Um, AMD AMD was uh very shaky ground in intraday. This looked like it was going to be a sell the news event. Losing the 50-day simple moving average. I mean, sorry, 20-day simple moving average. That was the that's the white white like uh line right here. As an aside, so um I have these funny phrases, so you know, don't make too much fun of me. Uh as an aside, what's true? Blah blah blah. Uh we we' we'd hit our upside target. Um coming down retesting this 227 is a prior all-time high from when I have that on my chart from Whoa. 2024. I didn't notice that.
>> Well, yeah, it hit it hit that in March of 2024. That was the top.
>> Yeah. So, that's constructive. Wow.
>> I mean, dude, that deal rerated the entire company and actually got price discovery.
>> Yeah. Then it insta gapped up. I mean, dude, let's just be honi deal made millionaires in this stock. I mean, people were already doing well. That deal took
>> What do you mean?
>> Like, because it was stuck at 150 for basically five months. And the deal
>> Yeah. made million. I thought I thought our TA our technical Tuesday buy sub whatever it was. It was in the 90s made millionaires.
>> Wasn't our technical Tuesday buy at 92.
>> That was also when it was when AMD was 90, you could buy anything. No, our technical Tuesday buy was that AMD is no longer going to be the advanced money destroyer and we set it by at 92. You don't remember this?
>> I No, I think that I think some people picked up on that. I definitely didn't, but that open AI deal really.
>> Listen, Linda, we did that.
>> Yes, you called the bottom. Is that what you Yes, you got it.
>> No, it wasn't the bottom. It wasn't the bottom. I'm not It's not my job is to call the bottom. Bottom 76. I didn't catch that. But my job is to know when the trend is going to turn. And that's a trader, right? That's the difference between a trader and a I'm not a bot. That's not my job. Um but the trend is actually still intact. It's it's it's um it is slowing though. It's it's it's waning. It's heavy. The trend is heavy. I mean, it's going to be heavy. Um, but that 22730 is actually it's a big it's a big deal and I need to you know what I need to do is I need to set an alert here for every time that that actually crosses. Thank you. Um, and I think that's going to turn into support. Well, it's going to turn into a a flipping if you will of sorts if if this can hold 225 support if you will for the foreseeable future. Okay, 225 support for the foreseeable future on resist on AM and that's what it is. It's as long as it can hold sustainably over that. That's that's going to be your support line. If it's below it, 225 is going to be a resistance and you don't want to see that. Um because that is going to be a hard one to to stay over. You know, this looks good. Valuation aside, AMD actually has never really traded on valuations. Um, also true, but this uh this looks constructive. What you're going to need to see now is you're going to need to see this this this turn into an explosive move. You have a bit of what we call like a fair value gap. This this empty space in the chart that is up to 255. So, I'm also going to see need to see the the chart actually play out and see this make a new high. So, in order for the the the chart to sustain, you're going to want to see this create a bit of a new cup and handle. Since you guys are pattern traders and Amid's a pattern trader, you're going to want to see this create a new cup and handle, a new one. This is way before anybody else even knows that this is a thing. This is what it's going to look like. But you're going to need this to breach that 267. Then you're going to expect a pullback. You're going to expect a very disappointing pullback from 260 near 270 all the way down to 255. You're going to be your hearts are going to be broken, but you're going to need to buy that dip if that happens. And that dip is going to be around 255. And that's going to take you to the goddamn promised land of 300. What? Really? Okay. If that happens, but that's what that pathing is going to look like. I can't believe I said that.
>> I just read I'm literally just reading the chart.
>> I think it's cool that it's normalizing 230 240. I think that itself is exciting for a lot of AMD investors.
>> That's fair.
>> Um, let's do Nebus. New position for me today. Stocks down about 7%.
>> I thought, dude, you guys, just so you I I text this guy when to buy things and apparently he doesn't doesn't because he does it later. Did you tell me when to buy Nebul? I don't even remember.
>> This day I texted you 94.
>> Wow. At the bottom you texted me to
>> text you. Show them.
>> No, you're probably right. You're probably right.
>> And I said I said, "Dude, you need to just buy the stock." Because I knew that he was selling those puts and I was like, "You need to buy the stock."
>> Yeah, I remember that. I remember that. I remember that. Yeah, you're right.
>> Because I don't think you're going to get assigned.
>> Well, I'm in. And then And then so here's the deal. So we get here. Okay. So he likes the stock. You do you do want this to act as a higher low. You're you're actually in trouble here, my friend. Um don't hate me.
>> I wouldn't mind if we go back to 94.
>> No. Some more pain.
>> You're going to need deeper. So the trouble is that this is a lower high. So, this has to hold. It's not that we're going back to 94. So, you you you you would be breaching 94. So, you don't want to buy at 94. I'll just save you that hassle. This has to this has to be the low. And then this has to be the low right now. So, this is fine right now. Um you don't want to buy at 94. If you see 94, just just stay stay put. Um it's not a good place to sell either. Uh there is an 86 that's interesting but also not not enticing. The thing about 94 is if you lose this then you're probably going into the 70s fives which is going to be a your discount. But why do you is it it's all technical because
>> yeah you're just retesting this 75 because if you lose if you lose this right now so this has to this has to go into consolidation right now and what that means is that this this so I just connecting here here here and here that's what I'm connecting This has to go into consolidation right now, which means that this was a good dip by today. But because this was a lower high, this chart is going into consolidation. A big consolidation. You're going to get to 130. Don't think it's breaking out cuz it's probably not. Not without a headline, right? It's probably coming back in to the hundreds and then it's probably doing this until we get a headline which will change the story and the chart will tell you right when that happens. So time frame time yeah time horizon matters. But the reason I'm saying don't buy lower than this is because if this was lower what's what is this?
>> This is a break of that consolidation. Yeah,
>> you might pop up higher,
>> but that's going to be a chore.
>> Yeah,
>> if they if they really give 75 after this earnings, I mean,
>> I don't think
>> I would be excited. I don't know if they actually do that.
>> So 75 is not in play unless this happens. So if this breaches that would like something like this 75 becomes in play if and only. So because TA is reactionary when I say things like this, it is a it is very much if this then that. If 95 breaches again, it will then expect a bit of a bounce then expect the prior people to that bought over here to act as resistance and sell into the next bounce. and it to come lower so that it can collect more buyers.
>> I I also think fundamentally that would be erasing pretty much everything after the Microsoft deal. So
>> it actually would Yep.
>> Yeah. So I mean
>> and that becomes a buy
>> at that point you're taking me back to Yeah, it becomes a you're taking me back to September before the deal. I mean
>> Yep. That would that would be a screaming buy. But techn you know technicals don't really technicals tell you just like when things might happen. and fundamentals could tell you this is a buy right here right now.
>> Right. Right. That's fair. That's fair. Okay, cool. Um, Nvidia, I mean, we haven't talked
>> this off on on Ne. This is consolidation. It's a good spot. It would have been better if you had, you know, done it when I texted you, but
>> that's I deserve the [__] for that. Um, we we haven't talked in two weeks and Nvidia hit five trillion in that time. Have you been
>> Yeah. surprised of the breakout to 210 or or how are you thinking of it here?
>> No. And the last time that we talked three weeks ago, I actually said this, right? And so, um, I'm not trying to be braggadocious at all. This is just I I hope I'm not coming off this way. I'm more in the educational space, right? So, like this is about understanding the market um cycles and sentiment. And this was all about this move was all about what the Mag 7 might say during the earnings report. This whole thing and it what we said three weeks ago was that you want to be long Nvidia before the Mag 7 reports. That's the deal. And that's then and this right here is what happened. That was that this was all during those during that whole thing. And then they've reported, okay, cool. The market's always forward looking. And now it's like, well, what do you have for me next? Right? And so that's over. What's the next news? Well, it's not it's not anything yet. But now, uh, and today, by the way, Soft Banks decides to ex, you know, disclose that they've sold all their Nvidia. By the way, Soft Bank sold the majority of their Nvidia what price? I think it was like like 45 or something.
>> Yeah. Split adjusted like
>> it's well below today's current price.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, I Moss is probably just tired of looking at it. I don't know because it reminds him of all the pain. But no,
>> I would be too, dude. That was a $200 billion stake if he had held on that's now worth billion.
>> Yeah, maybe. I mean,
>> but also I think I think he thinks there's a better deal in OpenAI.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And so
>> maybe. And he's probably gearing up for that actually. So, um I think that's that's to be expected. So, we got a again another disappointing dip all the way back into 178, which by the way, we also called this um so it pays. It literally pays to watch technical Tuesday. Is that crazy?
>> That's true. That is true.
>> We should do like a This should be on the emit uh hot tub stream also. We should just do charts and charts and
>> you know there is there is a hot tub in this apartment. So
>> dude
>> I mean you ever if you ever come through I mean two guys in a hot tub doing ta I mean
>> two guys in a hot tub. You're gonna have to come up with a name for this one.
>> Oh god.
>> Okay. So would you would you buy here at around 195 or or not? So,
>> November 19th is what's going to happen. And I think we go sideways. If you didn't buy at that 177, I mean, you got a second chance here at 178. That was that was wild. I actually didn't buy this. I did buy this. Um, this was real fast. The the thing here is like I
>> By the way, I'm the same. I bought 177 three weeks ago. I didn't buy 178 on Friday, so I'm the same as
>> Yeah. I mean, I think uh you know, and I saw it at 190. So, what I'm looking at is is is this area right here. It's 180s. So, if I see that 50-day again and I see this um this orange line and possibly up as high as 185, I think this general box here start to act as resistance usually. And I'll speed up here. The trick the trick is if this is the low, I want to look for where the last low was and that's right here. And so the last low neart near-term low before the before the actual low that is 186. So in this general box I would um expect to see some kind of consolidation. We can see that that similar kind of price action happen here. So I would say down to 185 around 186 around 185 roughly. Um, and so I would expect to see some kind of consolidation sideways. This is going to be sideways movement. And then eventually a couple days before earnings, this start to get its butt in gear one more time over the 20-day simple and head right back into that 200 something which is going to turn that whole this whole thing into a new consolidation. I do this twice because I need to show you one thing. So, which means that 195 is going to be your clear breakout zone and 195 will definitively bring you every time to 200. And so, and and both ways that goes that's going to go both ways, right? Very quickly. And then if you get up and through 200, that's quickly going to take you to 210. And then your breach, and I'm just out of time. Your breakout is going to look like something like this. This is going to take you into 225s, maybe 230. That's what this trajectory is actually going to look.
>> You think that happen? You think that could happen end of year or no? Yeah, it's going to be I mean that actually could well that's what's that? That's so this is five trillion.
>> 230 is like 5.4 I think actually.
>> Yeah. I mean so so this is going to be your Santa Claus rally. This is going to be your actual if it does your Santa Claus rally. And then this is going to be your um November December push.
>> Okay.
>> And this and this right here may end up being your actual earnings unless unless this ends up being your earnings. But I would I would guess this is broken up into a couple different pieces. So like this might be your your actual earnings move here, then some sideways consolidation, and then your November to December press here, and then your your actual Santa Claus rally here.
>> Okay. Uh SoFi, what do you think about this one? Hey, so um so talk to me about the the new I think there's a fund he released did they release the new targets for their the payback is the the incentives or something?
>> Well, that that's been set in stone already. He's got to get it to 25 35 and 45. It's got to be 45 for I believe it's what 90 days uh on a weighted moving average. So it's got to get there by around March. Um, but crypto they announced is coming back today and that's why I think the stock got a pop over the past couple of days.
>> I mean, if if I I
>> feel like you're about to be bearish. Don't be bearish.
>> I'm not gonna be bearish. I'm just going to challenge that the crypto logic. I mean, that's
>> I mean, look, that's not their core business, but it's I don't think there's nothing bad about bringing crypto back. There's nothing bad about bringing crypto back, but I I don't know that it would move the needle for SoFi. I I do on the other hand think that those um the the targets 35 45 will move the needle. Um not unlike Tesla's pay package type thing, right?
>> Yeah.
>> And and that's that's that's incentivizing although he's had these things like that in the past. What's true right now is that we knew 2870 was that center line here. This has been a choppy ride. Um, breached the downtrend at 26s and that 25 area here has has been holding still as that support. And just from a horizontal level area, that's been your support. I don't really again I don't really want to see this tested a whole lot um from here and then now now this is starting to you know test the upside of this right so one this is two we got one breach three I mean one two three this is I think technically your fourth attempt or nearly and you're reclaiming the center line of this channel. So the targets have always been and remain 35 up in this area right here 34 just just underneath 35. Um and that has not changed actually on this chart at all. So a lengthy way to say is no change on SoFi and this is still intact fully intact. Um after a bit of a scare below the channel quickly reclaimed within one two within two days pulling back holding the upper end of this and acting as now support right over 30 which we know is a key pivot. So as long as 30 just under 30 2950 ends up acting as support where it was resistance in the past. That's really what you're going to want to see from a characteristic change in this where that resistance prior resistance starts to act as future support. Do you think a breakout to 35 by end of year is possible or you think there's too much back and forth from 25?
>> No, that's that's definitely possible. It's the question the question is whether or not it holds
>> because the you still have some some sellers that are showing up around this center line here, but they're going to give up. I I'll tell you right now. I I mean I think they're already at the give up sp Yeah, they're already giving up. Um, so I mean if this gets over 31, they should they should give up and then you should get a a bit of a squeeze, if you will, into 32 and and ultimately 33 85 and you might chop. You might chop a little bit. So is like it's it's it might even look like this, right? And then, you know, that's what I'm saying is does it does it really hold? But that's that's kind of like what it's been looking like.
>> The thing is for not to get paid, it's got to get to 45 pretty soon. Like it has three months.
>> Well,
>> three months
>> on a it has to be, guys, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think it's 60 days. It has to stay at 45. So, it it could be below 45 for 60, but you know, then it has to be like 55. So, it averages out. So by March for him to get paid by June, like by June it has to be 45, but it has to stay there for 60 days. So a couple months before June, it technically has to get up there.
>> Well, so 36 is the upper bound of this channel. 3670. And if that happens, I still think that this can come down and retest that 30, which will be a a screaming buy. And then you could get to 40 and then you'd want to see this. It'll probably go sideways. March it's gonna I don't know that that timeline is intact here.
>> 90 days 35 is one uh category, but the the the big money is 45 from my understanding. And that's a big freaking move. But you know that
>> I have I have I mean as high as 50 but not in March. March I have as high as 43.
>> Yeah. People at the end of March.
>> End of March.
>> Yeah. I think for SoFi they need I can see that. I think the rate cut.
>> I just I don't know if the rate cuts are enough, but I think that that could be it.
>> Yeah. I mean, when you zoom out and you look at this on like a weekly, it's cleaner.
>> Yeah.
>> Like that's pretty clean when you when you zoom out and you're not in the weeds, but um
>> Yeah. And the 28 is important.
>> BMR, are you getting bearish? Are you giving up on it? What do you think it is?
>> No. No. Can I do Ethereum first?
>> Yeah, let's do Ethereum first. That makes more sense.
>> Since I haven't really looked at it. So, Ethereum. Ew. So, this is where we are. So, this is prior highs. broken downtrend but breached and actually coming back into the broken downtrend. This 35ish level is important. That was right here that 35 wick and then um I don't remember where we had it somewhere around here 30 3350 which came from this general area. I can pull that all the way across. 3350. Um, or was it 34s? Something like that. Around 34s, which now if you bought that is actually starting to act as resistance and I don't really want to see that. So, so that's important to note right now is that this this group of buyers I think are kind of getting weak-handed. They clearly sold up here. And when I talked about lower highs and not making higher highs, this stuff is important, right? And I don't remember when it was. It was probably, it was clearly a few months ago, but like this was a good spot. And then you asked me if I would buy it here now. And I'm like because this and subsequently this didn't make new highs on Ethereum. And this is the result of what what happens when you have that is that you don't have the strength. So when we don't have the strength, we still have to go lower to get new buyers. And right now we're going to play with this that last primary like wick right here that 34 37. I don't think it's a sell just to start with that right. I don't think it's a sell, but it's possible that we get another dip. And that dip is likely going to come in in in the flavor of a flash crash because that's how crypto works. Um, and I'm do the same exercise that I did on Meta. And that's left to right, the the extreme lows to extreme highs. I'm using a 4-hour chart. It doesn't matter what time frame chart you're looking at. Um, and and 50% of this extreme low to extreme high is 31.82. And now crypto is very very technical. I absolutely use fibs and it absolutely does show up quite a bit. Um, one other thing of confluence here is that this is the prior breakout right here off of 2770. That area ends up being like really really important for now. As long as 3182 holds, that is a 50% pullback. That's constructive. But we know that this is my I corumba, right? I also know that my I corumba has has more or less played out from here to here um downside. So that's that inverted head and shoulders whatever that that extension actually takes me to 3150 and I so I have confluence right here meaning that that failure to break down here takes me exactly target acquired 3150. There's another extension. If this cannot get over 367, like this is going to have a really hard time getting in the clear and we're still going to have selling pressure come in. There's one more extension that's at like 2750s. Um, and I have confluence at that level as a as a bigger dip buy. So, this is from a from a real crypto guy that's been around for a while. like this is actually a discount. Uh if you did see a liquidity event into the 27 2800s, I have I have this little sliver right here just around 2,800 as actually a really good spot to actually get long. It's like 2760 just around 28. Um where if you missed it, that actually looks like a very very good spot to get long um crypto right here. And I have a lot of confluence if that does happen. But that would have to look like a fail right now, which is kind of happening as we speak. Um, and then a breach. I could still have this. It would be like a liquidity event that happens very quickly and then I think more sideways action which consolidates pretty much exactly where we are and then eventually goes up and out. So, is it a sell right now? No. because I highly doubt that anybody's going to be able to get this with a market order because it's going to be this kind of fast. Very fast. It's going to be this kind of fast. Like it'll be there for a few minutes if that. So, you'd have to have resting orders sitting at like 28 uh to probably catch that, which I think is a good idea. Um and and that would be some kind of liquidity event in in that instance, which would probably end up being the lows. and then set you up for that Q4 run into your Sound Claus rally, which is very typical um for crypto. So that that's and and and even in that case, the Ethereum chart is still intact. Um so that that's what I would say when you look at this, it's really just a big sideway box. Sideways box that's going to sit you literally right here around that
>> meaning BMR is acting the same. basically
>> it is acting the same. Uh one thing right before I go to BMR and I'll just do this two seconds. Bitcoin is probably going to lead this charge because it's it's usually the safer route. Uh and and again we're still looking for that inverse I Kumba with a little bit of a liquidity grab in in at the bottom which you know takes a little bit to play out. Um but BMR that puts me not in a sell right now. The breakdown has uh happened post here 50. So earlier this can kind of go away. Looking for that uh this trend line to hold this consolidation. This is what happens if consolidation breaks. Uh, it breaks here. It gets bought up pretty quickly around 47, which was like that's the spot that I wanted to see a hold. It comes back up and this is what we call that lifeline where it comes back up, it rejects, retests again, you lock in another lower high, which is why lower highs are important. And you come back in, you don't test this, but you test the lower end of resist of support, which is going to be way down here around the 37s. Um, and and right now you're you're still technically locking higher lows and I think this can consolidate right now. So, I don't think this is a sell. Uh, I I just I don't think this is a sell. What what I think is going to happen and what makes the most sense is you have to realize that there are a lot of people that bought in this 47, myself included. And price currently looks like more accumulation down here towards the 37. And it looks actually pretty constructive right now on BMR. I need Ethereum to cooperate. And Ethereum can cooperate only if it gets back up over that 3600 367. So if Ethereum can do this, then I'm looking at another press up to this 3900 where I expect that to act as resistance on Ethereum. And the equivalent is going to be that that 47 on or whatever it was on BMR where people just bought. And that is going to look like that where I expect that to act as resistance honestly and and maybe people get excited, maybe they don't, but at that point that would be sell calls to me. Um, and I expect this to kind of come back in and play little resistance.
>> Do you do you do you think ETH can get to nine by the end of the year? Because that's what Tom Lee said yesterday.
>> Nine what? Thousand.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean, crypto is is the it's it's it's the rawest form of supply and demand. Let me finish this really quick. Um 33 as close to 33 as you can is going to be the equivalent of that 2,800 dip on BMR. So the equivalent of a $2,800 dip on on ETH is about 33 on BMR. Just so so that's what that is. Um can it happen? Yes. Does it happen? It's TBD. Is it in the cards right now? Yes. But first we're probably going to get a bounce. So, right now it looks like we're going to get a bounce into resistance, which is where you want to be cautious and then expect some kind of a potential pullback because we have people that were trapped up here. The what what happens when we get here, some kind of pullback doesn't really mean that that's going to happen. If we get a pullback and we lock in a higher low at 42, just so you know, that can be really constructive also. and still continue to retest this multiple times. Right? So, I'm not selling BMR, but I I am prepared to buy it lower. And that's my story with this one. I bought here, I bought here, and I'm prepared to buy here.
>> Right.
>> Done and done. Uh and and I've never been on this ride for uh 9,000. No. So you guys, from a cryptoverse perspective, look, I I love you all to death and I really love seeing everybody get super bowled up on Ethereum, but I I very much have a um uh you know, I I don't believe in the layer 2 things really boosting the value of Ethereum itself as much as you guys do. Uh I think it's very fractional. Uh but but it's possible. I think this has a lot to do with staking and some of the laws that are coming out that are enabling the ETFs to start staking and things like that and and and and locking value very long term. I think actually that's going to be more creative than just layer 2 because you know layer 2 it's it's such a fractional thing. It's it's it's it's extremely small profit uh for Ethereum and it's it's very convoluted when you get into it but um but then there's still scalability even within that and and we saw that happen we see that happen in these liquidity events um themselves. So AVAX Maxi from that perspective but again all these things are extremely volatile and it's not unlike crypto to see flash crashes like this that in in the grand scheme are extremely um like micro pullbacks. Uh and no I don't have 9,000 I have 7,000 on my bingo card. Okay,
>> there it is. So, I have 73. I mean, at most 88 and it's possible, but that has to be this is like massive legal changes and and if and when this whole thing that's that's that's if and when this whole thing breaks out. So, we're not quite there. And you can start calling that when we do have that full-blown breakout. And that's going to look like again 5,000 with a pullback to 43 and then yeah then this is happening and then we're going to hit 75 73 and we're going to have this trajectory and then and then that traje so I don't know the timeline um but that that would be like the biggest bull run that would be a big bull run but it's very much possible because again rast form of supply and demand that you can Tassy, what do you think?
>> Sorry. So, those are just my opinions. Again, I have lots of them. I'm wrong a lot.
>> Well, you've also been early crypto since what like 2012. So, I think you definitely
>> Yeah. I mean, last time I bought actual crypto like Ethereum was 125, maybe 115 around 125, 115. Um,
>> so almost 10 years ago, you know.
>> Yeah. I mean, dude, I have I've lost more keys than I can remember, bro. Like, like really, I'm one of those guys that I don't even know how much is lost in. One time I opened up a wallet and I found like $50,000 in some random token. I was like, whoa, cash. See you. Um so so definitely consolidation right here on on Tessy constructive consolidation but concerning at the same time. I think this is the bit of a double top rough right now but um but fully intact. What I'm looking for these SMAs to to really kind of start to come in and they are right. So, I think that this can get choppy, right? And 415 was the level. It still is the level. We haven't tested that 415 level in quite a while. 415 comes from, you know what? Let me just do a solid white line directly across. It's such a big level. You know, this chart shows a lot of time, but it doesn't show all the time. Um, I'm going to pull this back for just a second. And um, you know, story of price action. I'm going to go to weekly 415 is way over here 2021. And so this is like that AMD level also. And and we we'd even breached it slightly over here. And so this pullback retest bounce up off of is fine, right? So this 415 I think is perfectly fine. A pullback to 390 is still fine, right, for this trajectory to fives and ultimately sixes in, you know, late mid to late Q2 next year. But again, from the lows, I mean, we're we're we're we're doing okay. And even if I don't make that target at this point, I mean, I'm okay still. Uh but yeah, I think sentiment sentiment is good. And this is what I would like the crypto chart to look like when when when Ethereum finally breaks out like this and I have like a legitimate, okay, we've breached, I can see a pullback and then I would see this happen and we're we're then we're in, baby. So the next big pullback that I get on Tessy, if I see that to 390, I think I'm going to start reloading. That's
>> I I think compensation package also to me fundamentally is bullish.
>> Yeah. So I I I think that's where I'm at. So 415 is for now going to be that that critical pivot. It is acting like support. Um can it break? Yes. And if it does, it will be violent break. Uh but ultimately I think that ends up being the dip by that. Um that would be nice. and and and um the broader uptrend is is fully intact. And the longer this goes sideways, so this is the broader uptrend. Let me just make this bright green here is fully intact. This since uh what is that the the recent lows in here, this is the current trend. And the longer that this goes sideways, the the higher that that dip potential becomes. And that's healthy. This this is actually healthy. And so even a dip to 390. Before, when you asked me before what a dip could be, I would say 360. I'm not going to say 360 anymore because this uptrend is catching up with price action the longer that this holds in this general area. And that's what's good about that's why this is healthy because as this catches up with this you know prevailing uptrend this can continue to go sideways for a while like to the end of the year a while and then boom bounce all of this is possible but it's not act it's not in an active move right now which means wait okay that is fair uh Jason's Twitter right there in the chat before we do the next one again please Make sure to follow him. He is here with us every single Tuesday as we break down the technicals. Uh Rocket Lab, great earnings, lost all of their gains, but down from 70. By the way, it did get upgraded from two different analysts to 75, which I thought was incredible to see today. Rocket Lab. I mean, did you know that there's been like this uh there's a there's a setup. It certain times in the market there are certain setups that start to show up. Right now, this one of the setups is like a breakout like this and um big breakout and a and an extremely disappointing pullback that ends up shaking out a lot of people.
>> Yep.
>> Which which also ends up being a massive dip by. That's actually one of the setups in the market. Um, did you buy this 46? I mean,
>> that was last Friday. I did not. Matt did. He bought 47, I think.
>> See, that's what I'm talking about. Like, that's that's a big breakout. Massive, incredibly disappointing pullback, which ends up being I mean, my god, hold on a second, dude. Is this in classic Rocket Lab order, dude? 25% in 3 days
>> and then gave us
>> dude it's still doing it. But this is actually a good hold. 50 bucks is a solid hold. If Rocket Lab can continue to hold this, I mean I would expect. So remember this was prior resistance. So this is this is good stuff, right? So when you see prior resistance which was $50, right? That is that is resistance. $50 and it only had one test right here. If you if this can get tested for a while, even down here 45, by the way, is this resistance. So, let's outline this. Do you remember doing this same exercise on Rocket Lab at $16?
>> Yep, I remember. like with like my lines are still here from us doing exactly this. Um
>> that was that was during April and that's when you know we were seriously buying.
>> Yeah. So 42 is the is like the absolute lows. That would be a very disappointing pullback but um I'll pull the trigger at 4250 full stop.
>> Yeah. below 45. I would definitely think of adding. I mean, my
>> only because that's dude, let's be real. Tell them why
>> because you want to get a better price than Matt on the last dip buy.
>> No, because
>> my average is 26. I'm like, dude, if we're approaching the high 30s, low 40s, then screw it. But like I can't it's hard to buy at 60, 60, 58. Like,
>> yeah,
>> not easy to buy.
>> But okay. Um
>> um
>> oh yeah I mean so this is this is interesting but I think this look um I don't think you have to rush out rocket lab three month typical consolidation I think you want to know the the the uh are we in um are we in the fast mode you know no I just thought
>> yeah and over here this is a extremely long consolidation so they let the market you you know, catch up to this. I think between now and the end of the month as long as Is Rocket Lab a a a story company? What do you mean by story? You mean like a narrative?
>> Uhhuh.
>> I mean, there's definitely a space-based TAM narrative, but they're executing really freaking well. They've got a hell of a multiple based on that execution. I mean, I I think if I had to sum up the narrative, I would say a baby SpaceX and that's what's getting a lot more people interested. I mean, even one of the analysts today said that we think this is the only alternative to SpaceX, but obviously they're executing very well. I mean, dude, they're three cents away from being profitable, too.
>> Really? Okay. Well, there you go. So, there's the channel. It's very tight, very high, steep. It's super steep. So they have to continue to execute or the whole story line falls apart. But um yeah, breach of this trend line and quick buy up is is interesting. 65 is I think where it would be. But um yeah, I think I think this is going to build a new structure.
>> You guys are saying you guys saying Neutron got delayed till 2027. Is that true? Is that like is that what they said on the call yesterday? Because that could also be but then again it was up 12% in the morning. Yeah, I mean some things like that on a chart like this like then you're gonna you're going to get absolutely shellacked.
>> 26.
>> That's not really a delay. They pretty much said it was happening in 26. So,
>> but yeah, that's fair. Okay, cool. Grab. What are you thinking on that one?
>> Um I I never got filled on that last limit order. Um
>> he he texted me. He was like, "I bought Grab." I was like, "Oh my goodness."
>> I did with I mean because I got I was I was upset. I put a limit order at 520 something.
>> Yeah. The lowest we got to was 543 I think.
>> Yeah. And then I said so I said screw it and then I bought it. Um but yeah, left to right there's your there's your bullish pullback. We're holding. Um but we're stuck at the bear zone. So the the and then the bearish pullback um is like right here. So opposite direction here. So the bear So the bears, you guys remember this exercise? We've been doing this for I want to say years. Have we been Have we been doing this for years yet?
>> No. Um about almost a year I think we've been doing the show.
>> Okay. So this is your box in between 618 and 545. This is the box. Grabby Grab is in the box. And the box just as an aside is actually a bullish box. It is over this general area. And if we pull it all the way across it is over. And and this would be when you look at this at a from a higher time frame perspective. You know, everybody wants to fast forward and they want like this big breakout, right? But like when you look at this at a weekly time frame, you're like, I mean, dude, this is this is pretty constructive. I'm I'm just saying. So yeah, man. I like it. But I I don't think that you should think of it as like a I don't think that people and I know that you say I believe that you say this all the time, too. I don't I just I'll I'll reinforce it. I just don't think that people should think of this like as a as a moonshot. It's not a moon mission stock. It's just not. This is like a slow and steady personality.
>> Yeah.
>> Of a stock. you know, there's going to be dips. There may be time at times disappointing dips, but over the course of the next, I don't know, 12 to 24 months, it should be grinding steadily higher. And and this next phase of what that will look like, uh, should be 725.
>> Agreed.
>> Will you agree on 725? Yeah. Well, I I think 750 to 8 is fair value. That's where all the analysts have it. So, it's going to take some work to get there, but I think it can.
>> Well, I what what I'm saying right now is that that's that's the next move on this bad boy. And for all intents and purposes, you are well on track. Uh even though it doesn't feel like it at times, you know, zoom out, look left. It's it's it's very much there. It's just building
>> Chad is just Yes, sir. And you?
>> He is. Dude, I don't know what to do with
>> He loves it, dude. He Chad loves technical team.
>> You like Steve what I'm talking about.
>> When he tunes in anything now,
>> dude. He leaves focusing on Palunteer to just stare at us looking at candlesticks. Like he genuinely I'm not even lying, bro. He genuinely enjoys I am lying, but he he really does like TT. So,
>> dude, what's up with the beard? Are you growing this out?
>> Uh, yeah. I think I think uh I don't know how much I'm growing it out, but it is.
>> Look at that.
>> It's thicker. We're background noise.
>> It's thick, baby.
>> Yeah. I don't know how large it's going to be, but I haven't do it. I haven't grown it out in a couple years, so I'm kind of just like, well, let's see how far it goes.
>> Letting it go.
>> Uh, Amazon.
>> Amazon.
>> They had a great earnings.
>> They did. They did. Um, okay. So, how this works, whenever you have a power earnings gap, there's always a setup, right, in in technical land. And the setup is you get one shot to break the highs. Luckily for Amazon, it did break the highs on that one shot. If you don't, by the way, it and that's a forever thing. It's not an Amazon thing. This is a forever and always things. You get one shot to breach and break the highs. And you must do it. And if you do not do it, then you go into a minimum of a 45day sideways price action hold. Uh if not breach in its entirety. You didn't hold though, and that's the problem. But uh where this goes, what you do if you don't hold or even if you don't pull back uh if you don't breach is that you take from that from that moment that the market um got the news earnings to the high of that day and you you draw a fib left to right again. It's always left to right. It's not bottom to top. It's not top to bottom. It's just left to right. Whatever it happens to be. 50% of that move is boom, smack dab at two. Look at that. How this works. 239. A failure of 239 gives you a 75 65% probability of going to 235. We did not have that happen, but that does remain the bottom dollar kind of basement buy at 23403 of Amazison. Right now, what's happening is that you're going to get another shot to break this high. That high is 255. That's what's coming in hot right now. Does it break? I do not know. If it does not break on this shot, it will come back and it will very likely hit that 235. And I know that's a feels like a long ways away, but my gut is it it actually may get kind of up there and chop a bit sideways. And that should take you to at least 262 and a quarter. That 262 and a quarter will pull back to 257. This will hold. And then your boom into 275, which by the way has always been the target on Amazon since um this 186 breakout. Got a little rough patch here. Got a little rough patch here. And this um not that 186 breakout. I'm sorry. This ginormous, since you guys love these patterns, and I keep saying I'm not a pattern trader, but I do know them. This is a ginormous cup and handle. That's where this takes you into Q1. Go back into the timestamps. Go back into the to the TT library. It's there. um is and has always been the targets how we get there. This is this is how it is. So yeah, you're on track. Can it do another little dip by? Can it pull back? For sure. Um this looks good to me, man. It looks good. If I get pullbacks as close to 245, maybe even below that, I would be I would be a nibbler um in that in that general area.
>> Okay, there you go. That is pretty much it with the main ones, guys. We're going to get into rapid fire.
>> Oh, 300, by the way, is your max max.
>> Gotcha. Yeah, I think I think that's what you said last time as well. Around that 285, 300 range. Um, so rapid fire is what do we Yeah. 2 minutes 30. And so we'll try to do as many how fast I am on this.
>> I'm getting I'm getting good, dude.
>> Please do not spam your ticker. Trust me, we see them. We're gonna try to do as many as possible. Sure, we'll miss a couple, but we will try to get as many as we can get.
>> Um,
>> yeah, let's start off with Rivian. I mean, and by the way,
>> it's Rivy. We just Rivy Rivian, you know, the the the the two the the next two 10 Bagger potential plays was the Rocket Lab and the Rivian. Um, you know,
>> dude, you've been calling this thing since like eight bucks, so I'm happy.
>> It's my girl, you know. She's she's sometimes stunted, but but it is what it is. Uh 1285 is and has been support for forever. Um I mean, dude, patience is the virtue, I guess. Um yeah, I think that's 23.
>> Do you know why or it's just because I didn't?
>> Yeah. Well, I I think right now so so did you talk to them about January fact yet?
>> Oh no, you could you could talk about that.
>> Oh my goodness. Um so I think so it wasn't up on earnings per se, but they have a lot of catalyst coming. So number one, R2 is coming. Number two, I think there was a lot of uh trepidation if you will about um the battery stuff like lithium and things like that and and what R.J. did say was that um you know that's not going to be a problem and so I think supply and and demand not being an issue is a big deal. Um I I think I think that's those two things in combination. I think 2027 is and kind of in my mind was always there you go. Oh you you zoom the January effect.
>> Yeah. I mean, Riv's not a small cap, but still it could be.
>> It kind of is in the high beta.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. 22 billion is small cap to me, baby. It is the sweet spot. So, to me, I'm I'm looking at that spot. So, um it's still got some work to do. So, this is nice to see. I'm at an average weekly range. Did you know that my buddy um over at Granite Shares Rov L dude they
>> they have a leveraged Rivian?
>> Oh my god. They give me this 2x leverage Rivian and I'm like are you joking man? Um
>> you're definitely going to buy this and hold it for like the next 20 years. Like I know you
>> I am not going to do that. That's what a den would do. Um, look, Rivy's got to get over 188 1881. I think you can get a little bit of a stall there. It's hard to chase this, but you know, it's it's uh this is a big move. You're getting close to the highs, 18 something. If you get there, I could actually expect some kind of pullback to 16s and then I would want to see some kind of sideways price action and then a push with a small something like that. It would suck to see a big disappointing pullback, but even if that happens, you know, also true. 1285 remains support on this. We're just in active breakout mode is what we are. Um, and so if we can get through 1860, um, well, in that case, then it should be a straight shot to 23. Really, there's there's a massive from here to here. That's a big deal. But it's it's tough to chase it here because you haven't even broken through this ledge. I say ledge, this order block yet. Okay.
>> So, we're testing this him. Did they actually request that?
>> Yep.
>> Oh, you didn't tell them I bought it today.
>> You did? I didn't know you bought it.
>> Yes, you did. I text you. I text you and you don't listen.
>> I forgot. I forgot.
>> Okay. Well, you're in.
>> Um, I might have gone a little bit early if I'm looking at this. I I had uh Where did my I need to pull up my Damn it. I might have bought it a little bit early. I don't know why my son of a biscuit. Why did my chart look different earlier? H I think I went early. Maybe I didn't have after hours on. Damn it.
>> That could be.
>> No. Um I think we're coming in real close. I did it. I did the deed. Um, dude, I got to pull up my thing. Why does this chart look totally different than what I had? What I had was So, oh, there. That's what I had. I had daily. So, what I'm going to do is clean this up and actually go from here to here. And this is going to be a breach level there. So, right there is off of this cuz I was looking at the daily and now it's adjusting. Okay. I was like, what's happening? All right. So, I bought it. Emit told me that he was going to buy at sub40 anyways. And apparently he says things and doesn't do what he says.
>> Definitely did not say that.
>> I understand that you're buying it.
>> Three weeks ago when when when Hims was up here and it was s and you sold it said we were talking about it and you're like well if it's under 40 I'd probably buy it.
>> Yeah. But now it's actually under 40. So you know Nebius looks a little better here. That's just
>> I mean, you said what you said. Anyways, anyways, um
>> I just I'm not that excited about the business long term.
>> I kid. I kid. It's it's it's so so January effect is um it's very much small cap kind of stuff, right? If you don't know, it's it's it's it's Russell 2000 um seasonality, right? And the reason like arriving right around here, this is like mid to late November usually is the dip of all dips. So here's October. You get a little breach mid to late November with a push and then a disappointing pullback in December, which is the big the big move for Russell 1000, some Russell 2000. This is like 50-year data. So that's what that's what that's what the January effect is just as an aside. And this is almost exactly that. So, what I'm looking at here is that little breach uh post October or September kind of lows. I'm looking at this kind of liquidity grab. Definitely, if this gets back over, then this becomes that that quote unquote liquidity grab. Um, right over 30, $40 and some odds. And to me, I'm just looking at this China trend line. I think that V is still high on this. I sorry. All right. But this looks good. It can come in still a little bit 37s and and and maybe even smaller. But if if the story still remains, um look, uh Fizer got Metera approved. We got more we got more stuff coming on the market. Uh that's probably going to be more more stuff for him to start selling to me. I mean, I'm still not on any of these GLP ones, and I probably should be, but um but yeah, I don't know. I I I like it.
>> Okay.
>> I don't in unless I'm not paying attention and the story has actually changed. Um the chart actually tells me to go ahead and take a little shot right here. This is going to be invalidated if this fully breaches and goes like that. But for here now, it looks like a a spot for it to bounce.
>> Red do this. Oh [__] Red cat.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I guess it could go in that same bucket of January effect type stocks. Russell 1000. Oo. I don't hate this.
>> This is definitely could be a January effect stock for sure.
>> Oh, I don't hate this at all.
>> You know this company? Drones.
>> Yeah, Drones. So, I'd like to wait till after these guys report earnings. Um, these report on the 13th per Trading View, which by the way, Trading View absolutely sucks. So, I would definitively wait till post earnings. Um and and then and I I don't care if you forget about if you think they're going to have great earnings or not. This thing has been um this has been an absolute dumpster fire on earnings. Um so I would not at least from from whatever these little red dots are on my screen. I don't know how accurate that is, but um but the price is a good spot. If earnings pulls back and you have like a disappointing pullback even into the sixes and then you see it quickly reclaim, I would expect that to actually be a buy 770. So, what I just did is I grabbed what's called a fair value from that last uh area right over here, 682. Uh, it doesn't have to happen, but this is an interesting 684. Anyways, this general area as close to 7 as possible. Um but right now even that 770 which was uh prior all-time high holding that level and massive um pivot since inception on this stock that's a big deal. So a breach is just just that it's just like one one kind of thing. But look at that. I mean that was support right like this is clearly I mean clearly resistance clearly resistance and uh yeah I'm just like if it comes down breaks that kind of support or whatever but but even quickly gets reclaimed back over that's going to look good. So, this general zone takes me into this box right here of real support, which is where that kind of area came from.
>> Okay. Um, Celsius, which got
>> oddly, Celsius got like an extra 300 million CE anonymous investor, right? 300 million shares. Did you hear that?
>> I did not hear that.
>> You did not hear that, dude. I thought you were an analyst. What's happening?
>> Billion anonymously
>> shares.
>> 300 million share anonymous investor or something. I don't know. Um,
>> no, it's a buyback.
>> Is it buyback? I heard something about it. So, I wanted this to hold over 60. Wow. They did get shellacked, bro.
>> I know. and still up 60% this year even after that which is kind of crazy. It was beating every single stock pretty much for the year.
>> Yeah, it's shared by
>> Did you see Monster Beverage, too? That thing is like starting to rip again.
>> Yep.
>> That was up today.
>> Let's do this. So, we got a big move. This is clearly a structural recovery. Left to right. That's it. Left to right measured move. I want a good pullback. I want to get this top. So, we have double top of death, if you will. Gives us a pullback. I am on it. Shoot. It's a good spot, man. This is this is the setups. I mean, so a dis an extreme. This is the definition of an extremely disappointing pullback would be into that 37s. Spend a little bit of time consolidating back over here. Right back up to the high. All right. 3725. I'm going to buy this. I said that.
>> I mean, you've always loved Celsius still.
>> No, no, no. I didn't like it for a long time, but this is when I sold it. I remember I sold it actually right here
>> or something. No, I might have sold it here after like nibbling or whatever over here. And I was just so frustrated cuz it was nothing but lower highs and I sold it. I sold it here. I think I bought it here and then I sold it here and I didn't look back. Um, I mean, I was long here this whole thing, but but I didn't look back after after selling it here, which I should have cuz there's this big This is that this is the the bony frill, right? You get that rhinoceros and then you get the the bony frill, which we know we we play both sides of the triceratops. And so that's that's how that works. But that would actually end like right in here. That's So this is a 50% pullback which is good. It's a spot as close to 40 as you can but this is fine to start. Literally this is okay to start here. Uh it can you have that like it's like a 65%. It's a it's a real probability of getting into that 38 if you cannot get back over 45. But this can be the low literally right here right now. If you're if you get back over and hold, it's possible to get into here. So, this is starter. This is dip by. And this is throw it in the garbage.
>> Okay. Uh, Oracle,
>> I I I mean, I just I can't believe I just said go. We're go I'm going long Celsius. Oracle, I don't like, dude. Um but uh
>> they've lost their entire pump since September.
>> Oh, and then some. It's not that they lost their entire pump. They lost their entire pump and continued, which like that's not cool. Um
>> it's almost like the street doesn't believe any of their RPO growth from the opening eye contract.
>> Yeah. So
>> Yeah. So right here, so this is the same. So remember what I just said about this big earnings gap things like so it's it's from it's from here to here and and it's always like this. You get one shot one shot to break the highs. If you don't, you go instantly always and forever into a 45day. This right here, that's 45. That's 40 days. 40 40 plus day consolidation. That's what's going to happen. You draw this 50% retracement. You will have this what we call golden pocket. This is called the golden zone. That 295 that's a halfway point. So you can chop in here and you'll have this other one. But this is very likely going to be a disappointing lower high which is exactly what that was and preceded the next very quick failure. Uh, and when you lose this 270, when you lose this 270, it's that moment that you know it's no longer 65%. This is like 90% probability that you're given the entire I mean, I would I would I I put like money behind this that you're losing the entire thing. Um, full stop. And and that's what happened, right? So you you lose this and you get that you're losing the entire gap. And that's the gap right here. Full stop. And um so the only thing that's going to save this is if you get back up and over, which again, I'm not seeing this and I have no interest in buying this dip. So yeah, I I don't see any investment I don't see any investor sentiment showing up here in the form of like good price action. The only saving grace here is that is that practice of like if this is the actual lows then the low before the higher like the absolute low is literally 228 and that's where it stopped recently. But again, in this scenario, I have nothing but a downtrend and a series of lower highs and lower lows. So, at minimum, I must have a break over 241. So, I'm just manually drawing because it's faster for me right now. At minimum, I have to have a break of structure, which looks exactly like this. Up and over 250, pull back and hold 243. And and here, not here, but here. If I see buyers step in here, then and only then can I consider going long.
>> Agreed. Agreed. I do think it's interesting here, but I I would wait for buyers as you're saying as well.
>> Yeah, at least that's what the charts telling me. Fundamentals can tell you whatever they want to tell you, but the the the TA tells you when.
>> Uh VG, any thoughts on this one? Um,
>> I know you probably didn't keep up with their earnings, but
>> their earnings.
>> Yo,
>> I know. I just know this is Chris's. Um,
>> gas play. Yeah.
>> Is Natty Gas.
>> Yep.
>> I mean, I like Natty Gas. Uh, I I like Nigh Gas as the as the actual real thing that's legitimately going to power this data center situation. uh in reality not nuclear but um wait a second
>> they had an arbitration case with BP I mean there's a lot of fundamental stuff there but at wasn't it wasn't it now I remember so wasn't it um was not it was so BP is one thing but wasn't it that it wasn't just BP how many other potential arbitration cases are there.
>> I honestly don't know. I know.
>> Oh, I think that's the question.
>> At least the stock is wants to go back to court today.
>> I mean, that would be two.
>> Yeah. So, if they lo So, that's the question. If they lost a case to BP and they had other So, four more. Okay. So, they know.
>> So, there it is.
>> Wild, bro. Four more of these things.
>> So, there it is. That's your risk and that's what I'm seeing in the chart.
>> That's aggressive. Yeah. I I think that's what you're seeing in the chart as well.
>> Yeah. So that's but that's what it is, right? So you have to know and and then you have to quantify how much that's worth and then and then you fundamentally come up with your valuation there. Um because once the courts set precedence then that's that's a thing. Um this is the current low of 676 which is holding. Uh so that's that's what it is. Um but how long does it hold? I I'm not I'm not sure. It doesn't look like it's going to hold. The only if it was going to hold when I call this a breaker structure, it has to be over 864. So again simple terms if this is the absolute low then this is the low above the very last low it was constructive but this is what I mean like it's a series of lower highs and lower lows this is still another lower low the fact that this acted as resistance which comes back from here and all of this and even this recently this has to reclaim before you can think about this reclaiming and about this being an uptrend. But it is a it's a definitive downtrend right now.
>> I ran
>> I ran I'm scared about this one. Yeah.
>> I was scared to see if it was like a a moonshot or what. M
>> um dude, I'm I'm I'm not sure like if it's possible that did is it possible that like I turns into MSTR 2.0 because everybody else starts copying them. Like that's what I don't know. Um
>> well but but but there's like something real in the data centers versus
>> Dude, there is something real about MSCR, right? But the copying the Treasury strategy, it just feels fake compared to like actually getting deals with Microsoft, for example.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Granted, I don't know if everyone can get a deal with Microsoft, but I get your point.
>> This actually has a problem.
>> By the way, it's still up 5x even after this temp.
>> I mean, okay, but it doesn't. So, not to be a a dick, it matters where it's going, not where it's been.
>> That's fair. That's fair.
>> Um, so this is bearish. It is not bullish. Um, so you have a double top here. You have a little bit of a head and shoulders, whatever. And this is actually starting to play out. this will be invalidated over 6553 not not before then. So IN is a very volatile stock. I'd say 65 just to be in the clear. It's a it's a very it's a very volatile stock. So it can be 65 today and then 55 tomorrow night. Um and and so what I just did this downside measurement. So the reason I said that is that the the the deepest bullish pullback that one from a technical perspective would be willing to accept this trend to hold is 5876 which it did hit on Friday and and now we've actually breached that. Um so this this chart actually requires a little bit more work. Um there is I guess this which you're barely on. So this must reclaim instantly which is possible for something like an IR. Um but if if if this breakdown happens like that then we are looking at 47 and a new trend um that is created to the downside. And then and then in that instance I would start looking at uh what a down what a downward channel looks like which which on the screen here looks about to be 39. Um but uh but that said it's it's not over till it's over. Um although we don't want it to be a BMR type situation. the upside here if this does reclaim all of this with the key level being 65. Cool. Uh 65 would be the first one and then uh 70. That's a there's there's a couple there's a couple situations. So it would have to get to here. Green lines are pathing. And then it would have to get to here. And these are small lines because every one of these is going to be um possible pivots as well to the downside until this is out of consolidation. Meaning that if it doesn't continue, each one of these can do this and the whole thing is still at risk of losing the downtrend of of losing the uptrend if it doesn't actually get through. So all of this can actually happen. Um, and then it could still do this, but this sets up for chop chop chop. It must this trend line is going to be of paramount importance moving forward. This longer one.
>> Okay.
>> It's very steep though.
>> SMCI.
>> Um, dude, what a [__] co. No, I mean I like SMCI fundamentally but technically it uh has absolutely so my fundamental story is still like keeping it at the same at the same spot broken um trend here did not break out but uh basically when when something like this happens what it is is like okay I can have a fundamental thesis which by the way has not changed um But the technicals are telling me like, "All right, well, dude, you your your timeline is off." So, similar to like a Rivian, I mean, it's the timeline that's off right now. I'm literally on it. So, like, let me clean this up. So, this is the absolute spot, like the absolute low lows of here. and here that I would be willing to accept. And I know I had it differently before. What that Oops, wrong one. What that is or was is essentially taking this here because again they're not they're not like fully hard lines in the sand. Why is this dude? I don't know what's going on with my chart where it's like not adjusting right. Let make sure I'm not in like logarithmic regular.
>> I think the thing that really hurt them was the earnings guidance. But it's so funny because they already
>> It's so dumb, dude.
>> Everybody, so it's like
>> it's not even that. It's that it's that like it's it's irritating to me because like I can look at their bookings and it's still like it's legit like the market doesn't believe that they're going to book. So there's a difference between bookings and recognized revenue, right? So coming from to me if I if I get a PO I'm getting paid and um it's not like that in the stock market. They got POS. They're getting POS, but but they can't put that on the earnings paper. Like, it does it's not going to show up on an accounting statement. And um because of that, like the market's not it's basically not even counting any of it. So, anyways, long story short, we're back in the muck. We are here. that 49 area. That was a big deal to lose right there. And I think we're breaching this little blip right here. If this falls apart, this is 33s, which is what it is right here. and this little popup here without a failure in in my groups. It's like you're you're that's rough. Um I actually just I had debit spreads on. I just uncovered my debit spreads because like right here right now, this is my spot. Like this is my spot of like if we're going to go and you're going to bounce, it's got to be right now. Um it wasn't even today. It was actually this day. This day. So, my stop is like like literally right now 38, but today would have to be a higher low. Uh, and I just on a very micro level. Technically, I have a small breaker structure, but I'm stretching, dude. I gotta be honest. That would be a stretch to say, "All right, we have a higher high and a higher low." But that's what it would have to be. It's so such a small time frame. Like it's not that big of a deal, but this is where it would have to be and we would have to see this back up over. But I don't think anything's wrong with this company. This the market does not like the stock though. But I ain't going anywhere.
>> So how about Micron? This is a semi that is really just massively outperformed.
>> Uh
>> Micron. Yeah.
>> Yeah. What do you think about this one? 250 alltime highs.
>> 250, bro. That's just gorgeous.
>> That's crazy. Like, so this one, I can't really chase this. Um, it's just a channel like straight to the upside. You can, but I would do it at uh 230s. You could take small little pot shots. This is my thing. Like I just feel like that's so dumb on SMCI. So dumb. But I can think it's dumb all day long and the market is just going to laugh at me if it just keeps going down. So, you know, doesn't matter. I'm definitively still long SMCI. Um, but not not as uh heavy or bullish as I was before once that didn't continue higher. But I still like it. Um, yeah, this this would be kind of like that channel. It's 237 to what is that? 228. The only thing you have to be careful of like so this can do this and you're back to the highs. It's just a simple channel is all this is. It's it's it's if you lose this channel that you're looking at something like that. And if you were to lose something like this in this instance, I don't even think I would measure anything cuz that's going to just be a a horrible fall. Um I would actually take that short if it did lose the channel. Um, but that's from a 158s. So, it' probably be a pullback in the 190s right here. But, you're you're well within it right now. So, I think you just ride this. As long as you're making that series of higher highs and higher lows, there's nothing wrong with this. It's just continuing on this 45 degree uptrend, which could take it considerably higher. Let's see. So if this whole thing is the breakout, we are here. 257 is actually the extension. Dude, did that just hit? 257 is the extension.
>> Got pretty close. Um, that's oddly it. So 223 if it 223 is like a deep pullback, it would be like this. So 223 and then if it loses 223 then you're looking at at these um chop zone. I don't know.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Unless over 2 228. If it's over 228, I don't mind this run
>> Oscar.
>> I mean, this is so tied to the ACA extensions. So epically tied to the ACA extensions still as close to 14 as possible. That remains um didn't get up over through uh well actually. Yeah, nothing changes here. ti very much tied to ACA exemptions. Once we didn't get that in the once it once that doesn't come through in the government um shutdown thing like literally this is what happens. Um, and if it comes back, then it will be if that comes back, then it'll be boom. And and regardless, even without it, this is such a crazy one. Like any way you slice it, it's still undervalued from a like free cash flow perspective. Um, it's still as close to 14 as possible. I don't know if I need to buy more. I don't know. Your time horizon has to be along on this. I already got it here. Uh
>> I think so too. And I think that this whole shebang in terms of healthcare negotiations in January continues until then.
>> It it's not it's it's it's explicitly ACA.
>> Yeah.
>> For for Oscar. So each inside of healthcare it's like there each different like there's like UNH which is not nearly as tied to ACA ext like this ACA extension as as Oscar. Then there's like um HCA and and like like which is arguably the new like UNH. Have you seen this chart by the way? Like my god.
>> Uh Ow. They work out, too.
>> Well, it's the hospital stuff. Um, but you know, then there's like Humanana, which is really not tied to. Anyways, you know what? Chris works in a hospital. He'll tell you all about this. And I've done this. Let me see if I have this pinned. Um,
>> yeah, Chris said the same thing. I've done this analysis in a bar chart and showed like who has what ties to what sector. Damn.
>> AMD 5% after hours.
>> Nice. But yeah, I think it it it it matters like who's on what.
>> I agree. Um, DraftKings.
>> I like DraftKings. I don't
>> I like draft kings.
>> I I don't I like Why are they exciting when prediction?
>> Okay. I don't I don't like them like like that. I like it from a technical perspective. They're not exciting. Um it's a different business model to be fair. What is this thing? Um, so I'm currently in long, dude. Prediction markets are just completely taking away volume from the sports bookies
>> and I mean it's not going to kill them.
>> That's not true.
>> I mean, you look at the earnings,
>> dude. If I didn't have Robin Hood, I would have eventually gone to some sports book to
>> Les. You would not have gone to a sports book, period. No, if I uh if you kept texting me all these trades, I might have
>> I would not No, I would not have done it. You if if if event contracts didn't work, we or didn't exist. You know what's what's true is that we just wouldn't have played period.
>> It's not that
>> I still feel like it's hurting them some for some reason. But I get your point like you're right technically. Here's how I think that back rainbird or whatever prediction. That to me wasn't bullish. That was like, oh, they're admitting that this shit's hurting them.
>> Yeah, but it's not hurting them 50%. I think that's overdone. Um, so, and still the the the analyst community is expecting these guys to like double next quarter, which is crazy. Um, not double, 50%. It was 1 point 1 1.4 billion. Flutter is supposed to report too. We could probably look at that. Um, DraftKings was supposed to be Oh my goodness. Earnings.
>> I think they beat on.
>> Look at this. Look at this. Look at this. Uh, estimate 1.2 Two billion for Q3. Two billion for Q4. That was before earnings. Two billion and it stays. Two billion. That's crazy. Um
>> that is kind of crazy. That's Q4 momentum.
>> Flutter is uh let's see. Flutter's bigger. Flutter might be a better buy. No, they haven't reported yet.
>> I just like I agree with you. It's probably a good trade and technical setup, but yeah,
>> like what's the value of owning a company like this over the next 5 years or 10 years? Like
>> it's it's totally different business. So So when you look at DraftKings um and and you look at uh like what their what their business really does, like when you look at their earnings, it's it's measured. So, we're going to go over if I talk about this. Um, but it's it's measured in like you if you pull up their earnings report, their uh the stuff that they're going to talk about is uh hold revenue, which is different than what you're probably used to, right? Hold revenue is like like juice. Um, which which again is like uh in in the sports world. So, I'm like trying to multitask because I had all of this um from I literally wrote all this up.
>> We don't have to go that deep into it, but yeah, I I I think long term it's not the most exciting. The chart doesn't look horrible. I agree with that.
>> It's a it's a good spot. Chart looks good. I think um if you put this on like uh like 200 week simple moving average, you're here. This is the spot. It was actually I think 25 was just overdone from again like absolute lows to absolute highs. That 32 was that 50% mark. But below 32, it was 2538, which is like literally exactly where we got. So from from here, what what you expect is you expect a little bit of a chop. And if DraftKings can get back over 32, it's on the men definitively. And and when it's back over 32, you should expect 36s. and and essentially back to at least the 200 day and probably all the way back up to 42. So from a trade perspective, that's why it's interesting, not even interesting, that's why it's juicy. Um it from a trading perspective, you from here over 32, you you see 3750 over 3750, you see 41 and change for sure. Uh, and then if it continues, you know, it can get crazier. But without going that far, let's say from 32 to 42, that's just under 30% on equity alone. That's juicy from a trading perspective.
>> I agree. I agree. Um, Lily,
>> dude, what a like turnaround.
>> It's almost a trillion dollar company, dude. Dude, I mean Oh. Oh, it is all time. I thought this was going to stall longer at at 900. I bought this um I I think it was somewhere 800 recently because like this was this is like biotech that the whole this space this biotech space and why January effect even came up underneath the hood in underneath the hood of the market. The biotech space is in a stealth breakout mode. I mean, J&J, Merc, Lily, like these tickers that we don't ever talk about on this show. Mega Pharma is on a stealth rally right now. This is not small. This is actually pretty big. Um, and and over 800. Well, yeah, this bad boy was actually legit breaking out. And here we are. This is full-blown. Um, okay. So 1150 1150 it is. It's got to hold over 970 that prior alltime highs and it can dip in the meantime to 900s. But yeah that's that's the that's the general trajectory. This looks really good dude. Um this is like this is like Nvidia breaking out which it's not right but so this is very bullish. It's a very bullish chart and I mean again why why I why we talk why I even asked you if you talked about the January effect because under the hood how you know this is not a bare market is you see stuff like this. We're not seeing money flood to the dollar, right? We're seeing money flood to growth, but in other sectors of the of growth and just other sectors, right? In a bare market, money just floods to cash and you see the dollar ripping face, right? That's not what we're seeing. You look under the hood here and we're seeing um we're seeing the market broaden. And that's what we started this whole segment with. And and this is bullish net, right? Even even things like like Merc. Okay, this is this is this is a crazy reversal like starting. I don't I don't talk about this like we don't talk about this stock, right? I mean that is a crazy type of reversal starting again. Another potential 20% just a bounce regular run-of-the-mill bounce looking at 20% here. You look at like uh a who cares stock. When was the last time you looked at J&J, dude? J&J all-time highs, right? Who
>> that rotation is healthy? I agree.
>> We have never talked about this stock on this show, right? But here you go, right? I'll I'll talk to you guys about J&J. This thing is crazy. This is heading 200 and then some. But, you know, it's been stuck in the mud for a long time. I'm actually really upset about this J&J stock right now because I was like I was I I was watching this stupid chart for I don't know how many years. I'm on a rant. Um and this is three years by the way. 890 days waiting for it to bottom and it it tested this one two three I can't countless times and disappointing pullbacks and I just got tired of watching it one day and of course that's when it decides to to go on an absolute bender and and and just goes I mean in the last 140 days 30% which is a lot for J&J and now you know after they're they're done with the whatever shenanigans you 170 was that kind of pivot and and we're we're looking at a $215 plus dollar stock um which has earnings coming around the corner ear like in late January and this is this is well on its way. J&J was up like I don't know how many% today. 2.8%. Doesn't sound like a lot that if you're used to trading big tech J&J doesn't move 2.8%. It doesn't move 2.8%. Like like I'll pull this up. Fizer, right? If Fizer can actually reclaim $26 and and get back up over $26 and hold this could look fizer AMD 2.0, right? Like in terms of um advanced money destroyer, I've taken my fair share of shots on Fizer. I'll just let you know that right now. I legit just took another shot on Fizer um at this 24 level. But you look at this Met Sarah that has changed the narrative, right? Them getting that that Met Sarah like approval like they're in the game, which was by the way always part of the plan. They were supposed to have all kinds of stuff happen, but I mean the freaking Fiser CEO shows up. Did you see him on CNBC yesterday? You did. Did you see him drop an Fbomb on on CNBC? I didn't see that part.
>> Oh yeah, dude. Hilarious. Like I'll be down investing in a company with the C the CEO drops an F on CNBC
>> on TV live. He said that.
>> Yeah. In front of Kramer, dude. Like with his accent and all. It was hilarious. Um and it was about the CGEN acquisition, but you know it it's this is a big pivot right now. This was a big hold at 24. I'm on a weekly chart, right? It's it it could be I just shut up for a second because I don't want to get It could be It could be uh like a generational turn. It's not yet. It's early, but it's definitely something to watch. Um
>> all right, Jason, we have we have like 15 minutes left, so let's let's go to rapid rapid fire. Let's go to one minute so we can try to get as many stickers and whatever you got on some of these tickers. We'll do that.
>> Where's my one minute? No,
>> we'll try to get these last 10 15 in. Guys, again, Jason's Twitter right here in the chat and his YouTube. Please make sure to follow him as he's with us every Tuesday for free. Okay. Uh app loven Oh. doing that thing again.
>> There you go.
>> I think that's
>> okay. So, I think this one's a little challenged, but it's possible.
>> Yeah, there was a thing. Um I I don't remember what happened to them. There was something that happened to them that um is a big deal and I probably need to know more about it. Um
>> SEC probe.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, S SEC probe. So, big dip to 577 that has to hold. Um I think it's going to be very dependent on that kind of news. If if it doesn't, um the next level is 550. But uh here now this is m made massive moves. Yeah, it's 5. It's 553. If it loses 553, it's in a lot of trouble. Um down to 450s, which sounds like a lot, but for app 11, it's probably not that much. If if it can yeah it's it's out of the it's if it can hold over 569 um then cool like it's constructive. Obviously we have 560 or 660 resistance right now. Um so you're not going higher yet right now. This is the box in here. Cool. Next
>> and
>> I mean so a lot of these have like completely bottom. Oh yeah. So this looks like that January effect chart with like that really disappointing bottom. I think if you have a chart that looks like this, this is going to set up where you have a possible spring. But if you have earnings, I don't want to get in the way of that. Like you need to ex I don't want to tell you what to do. I don't gamble on this. Um I would skip this cuz like this has got earnings. I I think this is small cap. It could get it could get shellacked like and then bought right back up. So, a shellacking could be definitely in place to like four bucks and that ends up being a buy and then it's at like seven bucks the next day um on something like this. But I think this is going to be sentiment, right? So, if sentiment can actually hold, you got to wait. We're skipping on. It's too close to earnings, too small cap. It's going to move somewhere.
>> Unity.
>> Unity. um post earnings again. So, you get one shot, you did make it, but you're not holding. So, the shot is uh is good. It's not great. Yikes. I don't think that's a good shot actually. So, the way this is going to work, earnings from here to here, we already had that go. It's going to be 40. I would stay away from unity. 40 bucks you're going to chop. You might take another shot, but if that next shot is a lower high and it stops somewhere around 42, you know, you need to get out. Uh well, so the chart would say you don't need you you don't need to get out. The chart would say that it's going to come in and do another pullback and then you do you, right? And then it could do that, right? But if it doesn't make and hold the next high, then it's got to come back lower and collect more sellers. And how it does that is by coming back to where it came from. Next, uh, PayPal.
>> PayPal. Um, wow. This thing has been I think PayPal's going to trade between 75 and 65. Very insightful for the next I don't know. Um I don't see anything on this chart.
>> They have a dividend now.
>> Yeah, you you do have a dividend coming. It's similar. So, like this is the base and you have the same kind of setup where this looks like it's going to make another little pop. But if it doesn't, but if these charts don't make new highs and this is going to be a challenging new high. If this doesn't make a new high to 85, then expect massive consolidation, right, for a long time until it can make another run.
>> Okay, ELF. Uh, one minute is really short, dude. Uh, elf is 68. Dude, this one got shellacked. Uh, I think you you you got a little bit. If you lose 74, it's probably 69 is an important spot. It's this spot right here. Um, but it's I I'm not seeing that. You need to see more. I need to see more from ELF. Like a lot more.
>> That's fair. I mean, tariffs are their biggest issue.
>> ELF can even get back up to the 200 day, which is just under a hundred bucks. And
>> bro, they could pop if Supreme Court takes away the tariffs. Them and Nike.
>> Okay. So, yeah. So, so that so those things it's not takeaway but like okay yes it's takeaway so that perfect perfect response chart looks like ass sorry um but uh as is Nikes but like in in a single tweet example we're giving rebates to all the companies that were affected by tariffs and we're going to pay you back. Boom. Instantly, right back to the highs. And I mean the highs. So, it's very hard to be short, especially at the lows here. This is a no touch. If you like it, go ahead and nibble. But just know like you're you're just retesting this little area of 65 to 53.
>> Uh, EOSE energy.
>> EOS. It did make a new high. Interesting. So, that's constructive. I would like to see a little something like that. So, pullbacks to retest the 20-day somewhere around 15 bucks. Uh, I'd stay the course here. But unless it can like sustainably hold over 1845, which or 19, which it's not. Um, it's it's just it's just toying with that level, right? 1904. So interesting. That's a good breach, which means that the next higher low is viable. And that last low is here. So anywhere I mean yeah it's it's it's going to be a big pullback around 163636 is where I have my level then I expect it to bounce. Cool. Next
>> upstart
>> upstart I mean that's going to be I think upstart is challenged right? There's something wrong with this chart. When I look at Upstart versus affirm, there's a big difference in these two charts and I don't understand. Um, just pure ignorance. I don't understand. Uh, I'm missing something fundamentally is not right here. I do. You know what it is? I don't know what it is. Um,
>> well, a firm's credit underwriting, I think, is substantially better than Upstarts, but I could be wrong. That's why a firm's doing well.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean this this is 36es. I mean, you're you're back into this area. I I 32. I don't think you want to be Yeah, you're right into this area. So, what is that below 35? Maybe. I don't have uh three-day rule, but I mean it's not going lower. If it does go lower, then that's what you're looking at. Um but you you need to see just like everything else. You see one little blip on the radar. Same exercise. I'm I'm getting really repetitive here. Here's the low. Here's the low before the low. Guys, look at that. If that holds, cool. Next thing you need to see is you need to see this actually breach. And then over 40, fine. Where do you go? 43. Is that tradable? That's up to you, right? And then 50 maybe. But it's one and then two. If then that because otherwise if you're not extending this looks like it's going to come back. All right. Next.
>> Freshworks.
>> Whoa. Don't know that one. FRSH $3.2 billion company um cloud-based software provider
>> dude.
>> Speaking of uh old school cloud companies, there's a crazy old school one that just has absolutely exploded that I'm just like uh I kind of need to look at this
>> Confluent. No,
>> no. Fastley.
>> A Fastley. Okay. I've heard of them for a while.
>> I mean, it's it's at a spot. I I I know nothing about these. It's just it's at a spot where it would typically bounce and it could bounce at 13. It's a I don't know that that's an investment or this is like a trade. It's going up.
>> Okay. Dual lingo.
>> Did you want to see fastly? Have you seen it? I haven't looked at it in a minute.
>> There it is.
>> Wow. Look at that.
>> Wowers. What? What?
>> 30%.
>> 50%. Yeah, dude. 50% in a couple days, bro. I'm just saying.
>> This is a old company, too.
>> Oh, yeah. Cloud native CD CDN CDN CDN. Um,
>> you own this or no? I just I I just I had to nibble at this. I used to I used to work with these guys a lot, but um I mean I had to trash it up here, but th this is uh I don't know them as much as I used to. They were a good company. Um cloudnative CDN content delivery network. I mean it makes sense. And it was like two billion. So, I'm like, uh, 1.79 billion. I'm like, uh, this can get wild. This could get really wild. And I did no research. I don't know what that is, but that says surprise 9900,000% upside surprise. Whatever that is, I don't know.
>> All right, we got like five minutes left. Five more tickers and then we're out. Duolingo.
>> Duo. I'm scared for you,
>> dude. Somehow I'm up in the draft and I'm down 60%. I don't know how, but
>> dude,
>> I don't know if this one's going to come back easily.
>> What's the IPO price on this? 143. I think you see that.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> 94, dude. That's crazy.
>> Yeah. It's got to get back over this little blip 200. It's like your psych psychological level. Otherwise, I mean, 200, you probably see 185, 175. Um, we should actually start shorting this, huh?
>> No, I don't I don't think you short
>> on the trade,
>> dude. I think it's done. I think the short was at freaking 300, 400, 500.
>> Yeah. What happened, dude? Why didn't you tell us? cuz I thought the stupid green owl was going to help me speak English and [__] dumbass bird can't get the stop.
>> Oh, hold on. Okay, so you do have Let me I can do this for you. So, you do have a clean uh head and shoulders, whatever. So, like since everybody in their mother's looking at it, we'll just we'll just load this up. It's 120. It's 120.
>> Okay. Um last couple uh JD
>> Oh JD singles day ends today. Um but they report uh which has already been going on and they report on the 13th on the 13th. So it it may end up being a sell the news event regardless. Uh this is at the level. So trade location I think matters. I don't know what earnings is going to say. some so singles day is like three and a halfx maybe conservative conservatively three and a halfx the size of prime day significantly larger. Um and that is JD's thing. Uh if it does dip it's 30 and and that's probably it. Um, and that's okay. But again, why I'm like maybe March is not January's, you know, I know I know that your boy Wastic wanted it a long time ago with shorter dated. I I don't know. I this there's time, but now you're now you're in earnings. This is the spot though. 31 right here. That's that's the primary spot. That's where the big consolidation is. 3150. It can still do little liquidity grabs to 30 like this, these little blips in the radar and and then eventually get up and over. But same kind of thing where you had highs and then a lower high. That's uh that was rough and then we test the lows. Now we got to get now we got to see buyers come back in and then we'll retest the highs. But I think China in general is like more sideways and then break out up and out later after like into Q1 into Q1.
>> All right, last two. UNH unh so different types of buy it.
>> Okay, move on.
>> Yeah, I like this. Uh, with the I wanted 300. I didn't get it. I thought I was going to get 300. I got 313. What a greed. They've pulled another emit, guys.
>> I've actually been thinking of UNH, too, now that it's back into like the 310.
>> You got to have a super long time horizon. But this was the box that that UNH was trading in for a while, like right over here, and then it it uh actually was here. And so if it can get out of the box, which it's trying to right now, that's what happens. It gets out of the box. Right now, we're just kind of locking in that higher low. So extreme low to extreme high measure move. Watch what's going to happen. Uh that's where my 300 came from. 307. So I can still get that 307 if it comes back in, which is why I didn't add 307. I would like that. But this was this is a clean retest of this prior breakout right here. So it's constructive. If you get another dip, I would like that even better.
>> Okay, last three. I'll give you like
>> No, you Last time you said two, you're going to be late.
>> Okay, fine. Netflix.
>> What are you doing?
>> I tried to get you guys two more. I couldn't. But Netflix,
>> what did you do?
>> Netflix. Netflix.
>> 10 to1 stock split. We're just We're doing away with this. uh 10 to1 stock split. Um
>> I want dude I want to buy a share so that when they split my one share becomes 10 and I feel richer like that.
>> Do it.
>> Like I've never experienced a stock split. So I kind of want to be part of it. I I don't think I've ever had a stock that split on me and I got more shares.
>> Yeah. A bunch of you guys in the chat saying this. Dude, I it feels like you're just richer when you get more shares. Like I got a reverse stock split. I felt the pain of that.
>> My 30,000 shares turned to 3,000 real quick. And then I did another one. It went to 300 shares. Like what the hell is going on?
>> You're coming up into resistance right now. So prior support, which is so you're coming up into prior support. So you need to wait. Um, so it's it's better to buy at support and not buy at resistance because what you don't know is so this was resistance post earnings one two I would expect this third attempt to be a um probably a disappointing dip which ends up being the high. Yeah, that was my that was my level and I had 1021. I don't know that it gets there.
>> I'm buying a share so I can make 10. That's how you make money in this country. That's what I'm doing.
>> It is not.
>> When's the split? 17th I on the 16th I'm buying a share and getting 10 more. Well, so that's the only thing. If it's over 10 or if it's over 1150, then what's what's happening is that this will have become support again. So, this is the flipping break of structure 1041. Does it does it does that prior support that is near-term resistance does that turn into future support? So, I mean, maybe you get a pullback to what is that 1,100. Just buy it at 1100 then. You see, 1100, just put an order in.
>> Okay, that's what I'm going to do.
>> Yeah,
>> that's it. We're done. We're done.
>> All right, that's it.
>> You tried to sneak three. Okay.
>> So, you going to the dentist?
>> No. No. I just I just Dude, I gotta I gotta go somewhere and tomorrow I got to go somewhere as well. So, it's getting a little busier in the afternoons, but um
>> yes,
>> that's it. Thank you everybody for being here.
>> What did you say?
>> It's the beard, man. I'm going to wait there. Braids are coming out. Are you Do you go to the barber? Do you have the barber do the beard with the straight razor for you?
>> I need to learn how to line up my own beard, but the barber doesn't.
>> Dude, I'm I'm not I'm never going to be able to have a beard like that like ever. Like, clear. I mean,
>> dude, I started growing a beard when I was like in seventh grade. Like, this has been a long time since I've been able to
>> I will never have a beard.
>> With a great beard comes great responsibility.
>> I maybe I might be able to get one of those like a what? Foo man shoes. Could you imagine like a I could probably do that.
>> All right. Yeah. Weird. Also, when I lose weight, I think the beard's going to look even because right now it looks a little chubby because there's like my cheeks are big. Once I like start losing some weight, it's going to it's going to look nice.
>> Is it Did you get a new girl and you're just like It's the eating season. Are you preparing?
>> I've had like five new girls in the past week, dude. So,
>> once it is,
>> yeah, I see I can say that because no one believes like literally I can say whatever. Like, I can say any no one believes it. So, literally it doesn't matter. Like, it could be true, it could not be true. No one Unbelievable,
>> you know.
>> All right, that's it. Thank you everybody. There's Jason's YouTube and his Twitter again. He comes on every Friday to really help us out with this TA. We got through almost 40 tickers today. I'm sorry if we couldn't get to yours. Try to get through as many.
>> Yeah, we try. If you if you miss some, I do do a show on Mondays. Usually on on Monday, I'll I'll hit some tickers. I do like the the market like I do a weekly trade plan. So, that's what the YouTube is. Um, stop by. It's actually immediately after Emit's morning show. Not on purpose. It's just that's at the lunch hour. So that's my break time.
>> Good. It's a good setup for the week, like when I tune in.
>> Yeah, that's that's that's me and my crew getting set up for the week, checking out some trades, what we're looking at for this week, headlines, and and Evan from Stock Market News has been hopping in and hangs out. But um yeah, it's all good.
>> Follow Steve. Yeah,
>> before you leave, Steve is live right now and usually when he's live after me, we end up spamming his stream with something. So, I'll give you the wordam.
>> Yeah, we're going to raid his stream. So, what do you what do you what do you what do you think we should spam? I'll get I'll give you the word.
>> Uh, soy milk.
>> Soy milk.
>> Soy milk.
>> It's an upgrade.
>> It is YouTube in the chat.
>> Soy milk, baby. That's what we're spamming. Look at that. Look at that coming in,
>> dude.
>> Last time we did Costco and it was great.
>> Costco.
>> It was great.
>> All right. If you want to check out Steve, there's his YouTube right there. We'll be back next week with me and Jason. And um
>> yeah,
>> keep going from there.
>> All right, guys. Appreciate it.
>> Thank you everybody. Appreciate you guys. See you tomorrow open. Bye everyone.