[Music] Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts. Radio news. [Music] Welcome to Marion Talks Money, the podcast in which people who know the markets explain the markets. I'm Marin Samset Webb. This week we are talking about activist investing, why it's seeing a resurgence and what that means for the investment landscape and possibly for your portfolio. I'm speaking with Joe Bowen, CEO and CIO at Asset Value Investors and the manager of AVI Global Trust as well as AVI Japan Opportunity Trust. AVI Asset Value Investors is a UK- based active investor open to private investors. That means the group targets quality companies trading at discounts often family controlled holding companies and tries to unlock their value through active engagement. So we talked to Joe about the strategy behind AVI Global Trust, how his strategy works and what mistakes he's made along the way as well as the opportunities he now sees abroad in both Japan and in Korea. Joe, welcome to Marin Talks Money.
>> Thanks for having me. It's good to be here. All right. I know you've got quite a lot of fans among our audience, but you may also have some listeners with us today who don't know much about you and what you do. So, I wonder if you could just set us up by telling us about how you invest and why.
>> The starting point for everything we do at AVI is the idea that stock markets aren't always efficient. We're all told that stock markets are efficient.
>> Uh, and I think that's only really true about certain parts of it. typically the largest liquid, most wellressearched and covered names. Yeah, they're quite efficient, but they're always parts of the stock market that are neglected, overlooked, underress researched, and that gives rise to inefficiencies. And that's generally the parts of the stock market that we are interested. And on top of that, we particularly like the idea about being able to buy into good quality businesses that are trading below the value of their assets or their businesses. The two are actually linked. The discount arises simply because the fact that price discovery isn't working. That philosophy or process permeates everything we do. And then I think the third angle of our approach is it's great to buy something that when it's cheap. It's great to buy good business that you think is going to go up in value, but hope is not a strategy. And the third element of our approach really is working as an engaged shareholder to try and address and remedy that mispricing, that undervaluation. So in some cases it could be shareholder activism. In some cases it's a softer shareholder engagement process. But it's always about trying to do something to unlock value. Okay, so here's the difference. If I talk to any fund manager I talk to is going to say roughly what you have said to me, it may be in a slightly different way. They're all going to say that they are finding value where other people are not. That anything they buy is going to be mispriced by the rest of the market. That's if you call yourself growth, you call yourself value, whatever you call yourself. When you are an active investor and you buy a share, you believe you have seen something that the rest of the market has not seen. But the difference here between what you are saying and other people say is that you are attempting yourself to create the catalyst to bring out the value.
>> There's another angle as well and that is that yeah of course every analyst, every fund manager has got a model and they're going to have a target price or target valuation. What's interesting about many of the companies that we invest in is that they own assets and businesses that could be liquidated today for a pound and they're trading at 60 70. These aren't blue sky valuations. These are actual liquidation values. And I guess the most extreme example of that is what we see in Japan and have seen in Japan for many years. And that is
>> many companies in Japan holding huge amounts of surplus net cash on their balance sheets. And in the most extreme cases, the value of that cash and sometimes other listed securities is well above the market cap of the company.
>> And that was an extraordinary thing. I mean, you'd started your Japan only strategy. There are two trusts here just for those who who don't know the AVI global and then another AVI trust that specializes in Japan. You started that about seven years ago. And even before you had started that, I had been writing for years about exactly that kind of value. And there it was. There's cash. It's just sitting there. These companies, some of them with more cash on the balance sheet than their market capitalization. But nonetheless, year after year, the market simply ignored that. And then something changed.
>> That's right. For many years, the mantra in Japan was we need to have cash for a rainy day.
>> And uh in fact, when you spoke to companies in Japan, it became clear that that they were told employees were told that if a shareholder asks for the money back, you tell them it doesn't belong to them, it belongs to the company. You know, a very subtle but important difference. But all of it changed um around 10 years ago with the introduction under the late prime minister Abbe of the corporate governance code and the stewardship code which really attempted to change the the psychology of businesses of companies in Japan and promote the interests of shareholders which for so long had been really knocked back and companies had been run primarily for employees, society, pensioners but not for shareholders and that really has changed in the last decade. It's taken a long time, but we're seeing companies focused a lot more on their share price. They are more conscious of capital efficiency, not blindly accumulating cash and doing nothing with it, but buying back shares, investing in their business, returning it in other ways to shareholders. We see many companies in Japan, they're bothered today about their share price. They want to know what they can do to achieve a higher share price. And if a shareholder comes and and has a constructive answer to that dilemma, then unlike many years ago, they want to hear. You know, in the past, they didn't want to speak to us, now they do.
>> And are you still finding lots of opportunities in Japan? I mean, it's been a good run, right? And your performance has been extremely good in Japan. So, are you looking around now and going there, well, you know, that was great, but maybe it's time to move on.
>> Yeah, we are seeing many, many opportunities today. The opportunity set has evolved. Clearly the extreme valuations we identified seven eight years ago have moderated to an extent
>> but what has changed is is the catalyst. So seven or eight years ago you had to work really hard to get companies to talk to you to listen to you to try and do some of the things that we were suggesting.
>> Today they are much more willing and the door is much more open uh than it was seven or eight years ago. So in that in that sense there's still discounted valuations and the catalyst is is much more likely to arrive. And the other change that's happened over the last seven or eight years is the presence of private equity in Japan. So Japan has notoriously been a market in which hostile takeover activity hasn't worked where companies are desperate to stay listed to not be taken over by vultures particularly foreign vulture private equity funds. But the presence of of private equity has been growing over the last seven years both the domestic sector and also the global sector. And whilst we've been making the lives of the listed companies a little bit more challenging by being an activist shareholder, on the other side of the table, private equity has been the nice guy. It's been playing golf, taking them to restaurants and trying to tell them that life as a private company could be good for them, could be good for our employees, could be good for society. And so we're seeing a big pickup and the double effect I suppose of more activist shareholders, more willing management teams and the threat of um change of corporate control is really driving leading to a a big increase in change of corporate control uh market and that's really helping compress the discounts. I'd say when I was last in Japan about a year ago and I was talking to a lot of people about private equity and quite a lot of the private equity players were finding it to be a very different market to the one they were used to and much more difficult to operate in.
>> Much more difficult to operate in.
>> Anecdotally, what I've seen is there's still a resistance to hostile takeover activity.
>> But what's helped has been in a sense the evolution of activist shareholders on registers. So you now found when you look at our portfolio for example there's a handful of situations where 30 to 40% of the shares are held by two or three different activist shareholders and that's quite an interesting development from private equity perspective it means that rather than approach a company not having any shares not having any support on the register you could now approach a company with 30 to 40% support and you could say this is what we want to do and then it almost becomes a fetto complete not always but it makes life very difficult for management if such a large proportion of their register want to see some kind of change of corporate control.
>> Okay. Interesting. And what have you most recently bought in Japan?
>> We've been buying Mitsubishi Logistics, which is a a a very large logistics company. Very very interesting valuation in in the sense that not only is a very profitable operating business. Not only does it own its uh warehouses, distribution centers on its balance sheet, but it also owns a large chunk of investment property assets as well. And the combined value of those real estate assets is about twice the current share price. So trading at a very substantial discount, private equity has been very active uh within the logistics space. Mishia logistics trades well below book value and there's a lot of pressure on companies in Japan to achieve at a minimum one times. one of its close peers uh has attracted interest from a a value activist investor and has seen its shares rerate in response to that to well north of one one and a half times in fact and so there's pressure building on management of that company to to address their undervaluation. We are uh you know intensely engaging with the company. It's all private and constructive at this stage u and we think we we know which direction we're traveling in. I know you're very bottom up, but in Japan, do you worry at all about the political environment or indeed the fiscal environment?
>> We think about it, but as you say, from our perspective, it's much more about individual companies,
>> the idiosyncratic source of return that we can generate, which will be positive really regardless of what's going on with the political or fiscal situation. Of course, no company operates in a vacuum.
>> They exist in Japan. They're selling into Japan in many cases, but the businesses that that we tend to invest in have got good market positions. They're very profitable. They've got very strong balance sheets and they're trading extremely cheaply. And uh notwithstanding those those other risks and other factors, there is very substantial upside from a series of self-help measures that we encourage companies to take.
>> Right. Should we go a bit more global? When we look at your global portfolio, one of the things that you tend to focus on is more in the way of closedend funds. So in the UK investment trust, holding companies, etc. When I look at the portfolio, which is quite small, but what is it in the global fund? About 40 40 holdings. It's quite concentrated.
>> Yeah. Probably 20 core names. Really?
>> 20 core names.
>> 20 25 core names.
>> All right. If you look at it ge geographically,
>> you've got much less in the US than pretty much any global trust I look at. You've got more in Europe, more in Japan, more in the UK than most, and very little emerging markets, etc. So, should we just look briefly at why it is that you hold so little in the US relative to the index and relative to other global funds? I know relativity is not your thing at all, but nonetheless, I think it would be interesting for for listeners to to hear a little more about that. Well, you know, AVI Global is a benchmark agnostic uh trust and we take that claim seriously. So many others would say benchmark agnostic, but when you look at them, they seem to have very similar allocations to the US than the benchmark.
>> The other factor is that we are bottom up and we can invest where we see the most compelling undervaluations and the most attractive upside. In recent years, that has really led us away from the US and to other places. When you think about it, the starting point I said was always that markets are inefficient. But when you think about the US market, it is the most popular largest market in the world. It's the most wellressearched market. And the kind of companies that we're looking for, good quality businesses on discounted valuations. So in the US buying a dollar of assets for 50 60 cents, they're not that common. the price discovery mechanism, the sellside research, the private equity arbitrage taking over, taking advantage of mispriced opportunities that has worked to a great extent whereas other markets really don't have that those uh those factors working in their favor and so we're able to find more value.
>> So does that make the US a very efficient market or a hideously overpriced market? It's probably got got a little bit of both. But interestingly, um we are seeing more opportunities uh in the US have been the last couple of years. It's not in the popular places. It's not amongst the high growth tech companies. It tends to be amongst smaller companies. Companies that have the kind of characteristics that you said we favor investment companies owning a variety of different businesses trading at a discount to some of the parts. But the one thing that works in favor of of the US market is that even in those situations, management is much more focused on the share price. So at the other extreme, Japan management haven't been focused on the share price. They don't care. They don't own shares.
>> In the US, what you find is management are very savvy, financially savvy, and if they can see a discount, they will exploit it for their shareholders benefit and hopefully for theirs as well.
>> Can you give us an example of the kind of thing you've been finding in the US recently? You say you're finding more value there now.
>> Our largest holding in in is a USlisted company which is News Corporation assets more global I would say but News Corp is interesting. It's controlled by the Rupert Murdoch and his family. It has two key assets within the holding company. The first is an Australian listed business called REA Group of which News Corp own around 60 odd percent.
>> It's a very successful business. It's the equivalent of what we have in the UK. right move and it's got a very dominant market share, very profitable and as I say a very successful investment for the group. So we know what the value of that is. It trades on the stock market and so we can extract that from the market price of News Corp and look at what the implied value of the other assets are. And there is really only one key asset to think about here and that is the 100% ownership of the Dow Jones Group. The Dow Jones Group owns the Wall Street Journal. Mhm.
>> Obviously a well-known business, not only a successful newspaper, but also a very successful online online business. But along with the Wall Street Journal, they also own a business called Opus, which is a data provider primarily for the um commodities business, oil trading and commodities business. Not too dissimilar to what Bloomberg does, say for equities and bonds, but more focused on the commodities business. Now the implied value when you strip out the market price of REA Group of the Dow Jones business is around four times earnings,
>> four maybe five times earnings. It's certainly worth a lot more than that. If you look at its closest listed peer, the closest listed pier to the Wall Street Journal is the New York Times which trades at somewhere around 15 to 17 times earnings. So a massive gap. Now clearly there are question marks about the family ownership there the alignment of interest the importance in their mind of minority shareholders but I think we focus on what evidence there is out there in the public domain and what's really been interesting about News Corp is the recent comments coming out from the CEO who's not a member of the family talking about the undervaluation talking about the discount talking about the strategic review that's ongoing at the board to think about how to address that undervaluation talking about no sacred cows, no holds barred strategic review. And probably the the dispute that's been going on in the family has held some of that restructuring back. And hopefully now that that's behind um we can look forward to perhaps some restructuring. But notwithstanding that, and this is really key of what we're looking for across our portfolio, you've got two very good quality businesses within News Corp that are growing in value, that are growing in profitability year in year out. So the NAV side of things is growing. The discount is wide. It's 45%. It's extremely wide. And we think the discount will be addressed. We can't determine when that is going to be addressed. But the key whilst we're waiting at least is to have that pound of value increasing rather than be stuck in a value trap where you own a pound of assets that's going south and it becomes a race against time to monetize that discount.
>> Yeah. But this is an example, this kind of investment. This is a company where you as a firm can't really create the catalyst yourself.
>> Correct.
>> You have to stand back and wait for it to happen.
>> Yeah. And in those kind of situations, what we're looking for is the belief that something is going to happen. And it's more than just a belief that something is going to happen because it's the right thing to do. It's looking for those explicit indicators from management that they are doing a strategic review, that they're bothered about the discount, that actually something is going to happen. because otherwise you're just left with hope and that's not good enough. And the exciting thing from about our opportunity set today is that there are so many companies trading on wide discounts where there is something happening. We don't know exactly the timing in all situations but we know that something is happening which is a big turnaround from I don't know 15 years ago when there was a lot of value on offer but um it wasn't clear it wasn't apparent what was going to happen to unlock that value. [Music] [Music] Can we talk speaking of unlocking value about the private equity exposure in the portfolio? So that's an an area where there's lots of private equity investment trust in the UK trading on slightly lower or higher lower discounts than they were previously but nonetheless there's a lot about and you hold quite a lot in the portfolio that has private equity exposure right
>> yeah we became more interested I would say in the private equity trusts probably two or three years ago
>> at a time when interest rates started going up you started seeing share prices come down and you started seeing discounts widen and what was interesting to us at a point in time was discounts were in some cases 40 to 50%.
>> And there was obviously a debate about what the NAVs were but we could see when looking at the secondaries market. So the secondary market provides good pricing evidence of what investors are buying in some cases some of those very same underlying funds that the private equity funds themselves own. and they were trading probably at 5 to 10 percent discounts to reported Navs. So in our mind we could see quite a dislocation between how the market was pricing the private equity funds themselves and what was really going on by in some cases in quite sophisticated investors. So that gave us some confidence that the NAVs weren't as unrealistic as perhaps some investors had feared. And then for us the question is we're not asset allocating. We're not just picking up stakes in in listed private equity funds for the sake of it. We want to add some value for our shareholders. And typically the value we add to our shareholders whenever we we invest in other investment trusts is some form of shareholder engagement, some form of shareholder activism. And that typically arises when we can be a large dominant shareholder, if not the largest than let's just say a top three shareholder. And so what we've seen and I think we we've played our part in this is a sector that's now more aware of capital allocations. You're seeing more and more private equity funds doing share buybacks. We are pressing companies to take advantage of those discounts by rather than make new investments by their own portfolios on very steep discounts which is a positive risk-free return that's hard to beat elsewhere. And we're still seeing a number of attractive opportunities.
>> Okay. In private equity business as a whole, the sector seems to be in some degree of trouble. Exits increasingly difficult. IPO market still jammed up. So when you look at the sector as a whole, you might think, well, it's not really somewhere I want to be, but you're happy with it because you're buying on such big discounts. We're happy buying either trusts that own you know relative concentrated portfolios of businesses that we can analyze and comfortable with the valuations of those businesses. So something like Oakley Capital for example, a fairly transparent portfolio, an excellent track record and attractive valuation as well. or some of the more diversified listed private equity funds where the discounts are very wide. And it's really up to us to engage with the board to do more to take advantage of those wide discounts by buying back shares, but be more shareholder friendly, more focused on the share price and take action on that.
>> And how do the boards of those investment trusts enjoy that interaction with you?
>> Obviously, it's mixed. You know, I think for us though, the starting point is we never want to be an aggressive bully. It always works best to be polite, to be constructive, and that is helped by the fact that we typically like the portfolios we own. We typically like the underlying businesses. And it's not a case of a pound of assets that's going south very quickly, which would make us which would force us really to be aggressive. It's more we can be patient. We just want to see companies start to do more of the right thing.
>> Okay.
>> Clearly, the investment trust space generally has suffered an exodus of shareholders. It's why we see so many discounts. There's in some cases there's a lack of buyers, you could say. But what's interesting is that more investors, more shareholders alongside us are becoming engaged as well. they found their voice and they're recognizing that their remit to their own stakeholders is to be proactive, not just to be accepting of wide discounts. And one of the things we we do is get together with other shareholders, write joint letters to boards. It just makes obviously life a little bit more challenging for boards, but it makes it more a more constructive dialogue. It was never this bad in in the UK, but in Japan, for example, whenever you had a go or you criticized management, they'd always say, "You're the only shareholder who's not happy. All my other shareholders tell me they love me." Doing things together with other shareholders can be very powerful.
>> Let's stick with investment trust for a minute because a lot of our listeners are investment trust investors. What happens to the investment trust sector as a whole in the UK? Does it just shrink right back until we have a much smaller sector focused mainly on a liquid assets or is there another route for it?
>> No, I think I'm more positive than that. I think it plays a very important role and we're going through a shift clearly in order to be relevant funds have to be of a certain size and probably the days of the very small trusts trading on very wide discounts that they might find their days numbered.
>> Can I just pick up on on that? We've been saying this for ages, haven't we? That to be relevant in investment trust now has to be much bigger than it used to be. And we used to say, well, it has to be 400 million pounds to be relevant. then that has to be close to a billion to be relevant etc etc but that assumes that the audience for investment trust is quite institutional. If you assume that there's a shift underway in this sector and in fact the market for investment trust is much more the ordinary man in the street the retail investor then it doesn't have to be a particular size. You can be a£100 million and still be very attractive to the retail investor. You only have to be big if you have large wealth managers wanting to be invested in you which increasingly doesn't seem to be the case anyway. Yes, that's true. But the question then becomes, how does the sector as a whole attract that person on the street, that retail investor?
>> Sorry,
>> Tik Tok.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. The younger generation of investor today, one has to reach them in different ways to the ways of even 10 years ago, five, even five years ago. They are in many ways confused about investment trusts because they're more comfortable with the open-ended world where something is worth a pound and you buy it for a pound and then you sell it for a pound. This whole idea that it's worth a pound and I can buy it for 90p but when I want to sell it it's 80p that's just weird
>> fun though. It is great fun and but the problem is that the investors who like it and find it fun and the one who you know the ones who don't care whether something is 50 million or 500 million they're getting old and then they're taking their money out of the sector or it's disappearing in other ways. So you do have to attract the retail investor. The retail investor is key and the sector as a whole has to do more to appeal to those retail investors. the wealth managers. Yeah, the problem is being relevant to the wealth managers, but even there we're seeing some shifts. So, the consolidation in the ret in the wealth management sector has meant that most trusts aren't relevant. If you're running 50 billion or 100 billion,
>> even a billion pound trust is not going to solve your problem of how to allocate to global equities say. But the whole centralization that's going on there and again the whole focus on open-ended funds within those wealth managers has meant that many individual wealth managers are leaving. They're going to more boutique type firms. Exactly. To take advantage of the kind of situations that you say.
>> That's some good news. Thank you for that. Let's move on to another bit of good news, which is your shift towards Korea. I know you've recently been on a trip and I'm wondering if you're looking at Korea now and seeing the same kind of opportunities that you might have seen in Japan a few years back.
>> Yeah, we're we're very excited about Korea. It's a market we've been looking at for a few years. It's looked very cheap for a very long time, but like Japan 10 years ago, it lacked a catalyst. Nothing ever changed except that prices got cheaper.
>> And we've now actually put around 8% of the global trust in into Korean names. We own seven or eight different businesses there. And the reason why we've done that is because the new government in Korea has brought into place a number of laws and regulations and intends to do more in order to promote stock market ownership in order to limit the power of controlling shareholders which has been a big negative of the market and has weighed on share prices
>> and to address undervaluation of companies on the stock market as Well, interestingly, the new president came in on a platform of of Cosby 5000, aiming to to get the Cosby to double from when the point when he came into power within 5 years, which is remarkable.
>> Yeah.
>> And they're pursuing a carrot and stick approach to regulations. So, there'll be some things like tax incentives to pay out dividends. That's a carrot. The stick would be forcing companies to cancel sh cancel treasury shares as opposed to letting them blindly accumulate.
>> Okay. Will there be a dedicated Korean trust from you given that that seems to be the signal?
>> No plans as yet, but you're not the first person to ask about that.
>> God, you can't say that. It makes me feel small when you say I'm not the first person to ask the question.
>> Uh, well, we haven't spoken for a while, so otherwise I would have told you.
>> Okay, fair enough. Tell us about some of the specific companies that you've been picking up in Korea.
>> Yeah, well, we own one company called Amore Pacific, which is a holding company controlled by a family and its main asset. So there's a Moria Pacific Holdings and there's a Moria Pacific Corporation which is the main asset which is a lead in cosmetics business in Korea and Korean cosmetics and skincare generally I'm told is extremely popular.
>> Oh it is Joe. It is extremely popular. It is extremely popular. A lot of our listeners I know they all have brilliance. Again they'll be using Korean products.
>> They will. So again the operating business is listed. So the holding company trades at about a 40% discount to the value of its operating business which it controls and this is typical in in Korea. There's a lot of family controlled holding businesses. Obviously the the large Samsung and LG and SK the large chables are wellnown this is perhaps a less well-known company but the idea of family ownership and um yeah the issue in Korea is that in many cases families see these businesses even though they're listed as their own personal thiefts and they don't care about minority shareholders and a lot of the regulation that's coming in is designed to address that. So encouraging something like a Moro Pacific to pay more dividends to reduce cash on the balance sheet, to cancel treasury shares, and just to promote the interest of minority shareholders. There's a law that's being passed in Korea recently that restricts the votes of any shareholder to 3% when it comes to voting for independent independent directors and independent auditors
>> on the board. So that is a direct response to the perception that large family controlled companies are only run for the families and not minority shareholders. So it doesn't address everything but it's a very clear signal and clear step in the right direction.
>> And what about your activist tendencies? How do you engage with Korean companies?
>> Well, the activism element of it is key as well utilizing the support of the new laws and new regulations that are coming into place. It empowers those conversations and makes them direct and much more realistic. The reason we see a lot of parallels to Japan is that change takes time. Companies don't change overnight. Families don't change their attitudes immediately. There are some things that they will have to change if the law tells them to, but other things they'll have to be persuaded that it's the right thing to do. Yeah. So dialogue with these companies is very much on the agenda. We are very early days in that respect but we've met a number of different companies and the dialogue starts.
>> Good. All right. Let's talk about an economy and where the regulation is going or normally goes only in the other direction the UK where you do have again a slightly higher exposure than most global funds. You're what 10 11% at the moment. Where's the value here?
>> Well again for it's very much a bottomup case for us. Mhm.
>> We've had some investments in the property listed property sector, property fund sector where we've seen and continue to see some consolidation and pressure on companies to either merge, take over others, or liquidate assets and return cash to shareholders. We have a stake in a familybacked UK business uh the retailer Frasers which has obviously a well-known retail operation but also substantial asset backing in the form of a growing real estate portfolio and stakes in other businesses. Uh and we have a stake in uh Entain the online gambling company which is listed in the UK.
>> And do you have concerns? I know I asked you this about Japan but I do have to ask you about the UK as well. political, the fiscal environment, the inflation, all these things don't seem to create a great environment for corporate improvement. Do you worry about that? Where are your concerns?
>> Yeah, I live in the UK, so I'm desperately worried about it. And yeah, it's a big worry. What's interesting about the UK market though is that despite the big picture concerns and in some cases quite negative headwinds, there is still a very active market for corporate control. You're seeing private equity getting quite involved trying to take advantage of situations and that that's quite positive. That's what we haven't seen in in in other parts of the world necessarily and that gives one confidence that if you can buy good quality assets on a discount then maybe something will happen to address that. So that's the one positive I would say.
>> Okay. Yeah. I'm afraid that's quite a vague positive in the round in the round. So we've talked a lot about the positive feelings you have things that might work why it's all working. You've had wonderful performance. When you look at your portfolio in the round, what is it that you're nervous about? What worries you? If there were, for example, if it were to transpire that there is, for example, a bubble in in AI in the US and perhaps more globally and that were to collapse, for example, what would happen to your portfolio? How defensive is this portfolio? It's not jammed with gold, but how defensive is it for an investor at the moment who is worried, as I think all our listeners are right now, very worried about all the things that they see around them. They're worried about geopolitics. They're worried about their US exposure. They're worried about AI overexposure. They're worried about valuations. There's a long list out there.
>> Yeah, it's a it's a good question. And I think the point is that we are an equity portfolio and we are fully invested in equities. We would argue that our equities are much cheaper than certain parts of the market. But I think it would be naive to assume that the very expensive tech companies for example would correct and our portfolio would be unaffected by that. So clearly there's a there's an element of beta market exposure and we would probably suffer some declines in that eventuality as well. Whether they'd be greater or not or less is really hard to say. The things that give me some confidence are the fact that when you look at our portfolio and we measure the discount on each of our companies and so we have a picture of what the weighted average discount on our portfolio is now compared to what it is over time and where it's at at the moment is around 37 38% but to put that into some historical context it's rarely pierced that 40% level and it's been as narrow as 10% and for a few weeks during the co sell off it for a few days rather it touched 45 but if you look back at the financial crisis and the euro crisis it rarely went below beyond the 40% level and what that says is that discounts are already pretty wide
>> and coupled with underlying valuations that I think are reasonable and not stretched at all what I think could happen is you might see in the eventuality of a big market correction yes discounts could widen temporarily and our share prices could fall But they're more likely to bounce back pretty quickly because they're they are already at extreme undervaluations. And the reason why it never really goes beyond 40% is at those kind of levels, you start seeing quite attractive entry points and people start taking advantage of that. So I think if our portfolio was trading on a 10% weighted average discount, I'd be much more worried.
>> Good. Very reassuring. One thing that a lot of our listeners do hold a lot of and it's not in this portfolio though is gold. I know and not necessarily your remitt. But how do you feel about the gold sector at the moment? It's been a wonderful run. Hopefully all our listeners are doing extremely well out of that which is a bad thing by the way. You don't want gold to go up. It tells you terrible things. But nonetheless, should they worry about that now? It's gone too far. Should they buy more mining companies? Maybe they should swap into silver. I don't know. What do you think?
>> Uh, you know more about it than I do. It looks like gold mining companies are cheap.
>> Would you buy them though?
>> I wouldn't buy them for AVI Global, though. Would you buy some Bitcoin for AVI Global?
>> Oh, that's definitely not. But it's a sore point in my household.
>> Why?
>> Oh, because I've been long warning everybody in my family not to touch it and it's going to crash. And a couple of members did buy a little bit of Bitcoin some years ago and they're laughing. Well, they're not cuz they didn't buy enough cuz they didn't. They didn't buy enough.
>> Exactly. I mean, I'm always smug on this podcast because I have some Bitcoin and John doesn't have any Bitcoin. But what I very rarely admit is just how little Bitcoin I have. I can I'm smug about it, but it's tiny. But at least it's something. It's something. Whatever happen whatever happens next. Joe, is there anything we've missed? Anything that you must tell us that I have not asked you? Please show up my inadequacies as an interviewer by pointing out you want to know.
>> Really good. Really good.
>> Joe, thank you so much for being with us today. Hugely appreciate it. That was fascinating.
>> Thanks a lot. Keep well. Thanks for listening to this week's Marin Talks Money. If you like our show, rate, review, and subscribe wherever you listen to podcasts. And keep sending your questions and comments to marinoney@b bloomberg.net. We read them and we are genuinely interested in them. You can also follow me and John on Twitter or X. I'm MarinusW and John is John Steep. This episode was hosted by me, Marin Somerset Web. It was produced by Summersardi and Moses Andam. Sound designed by Blake Maples and Aaron Caspers. Special thanks to Joe Boundfront. [Music]