You're listening to Mistreated. I'm Nam [music] Kiwanuka. In Canada, women represent 50% of the population, nearly half of the labor workforce, and make up 75% of health care professionals. But somehow when it comes to women's health, it's considered to be a niche topic. And a January 2026 study shows that while female family doctors spend more time with their patients, they earn less. So, not only has women's health been historically underressearched, underfunded, and misunderstood, women working in health care also face additional barriers. Under the leadership of Senator Danielle Henle, a coalition of professionals in healthc care, feech, and research has come together to try to address those gaps. Senator Henle has brought forward bill S243, which sets out a national framework on women's health. Today we speak with Jennifer Blake from the Pan Canananadian Women's Health Coalition. Her organization has some ideas on how to make the bill's impact [music] even stronger. We talk about why Canada needs a national framework for women's health, the gaps are currently exist, and why women's health continues to be seen as niche. She joins me now.
>> Dr. Jennifer Blake, welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Uh really excited for this conversation. And could you please introduce yourself?
>> Sure. I'm Jennifer Blake. I'm a gynecologist and a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at McMaster University and also at the University of Toronto and a menopause specialist.
>> My role though and why I'm excited to be talking to you here today is I'm a scientific adviser with the women's health hub coalition. This is a group of women's health centers of of hubs have a lot of experience bringing people together and thinking about the bigger picture. How does health policy actually influence health on the ground?
>> Well, the conversation we're going to be talking about today is this push for national framework for women's health. Yes.
>> Um I think there's this perception that women's health is niche. I've heard this from some people when I've told them about the podcast. there's been a lot of great response to the podcast, but then some people are like, "Well, women's health is niche." But I'm like, "But sir or madam, [laughter] women make up 50% of the population." Uh, so we're going to talk more about that, but how would you describe the state of women's health care in Canada at this moment in 2026? I would say that the problem with women's healthcare in Canada is that it is underressearched, underfunded, fragmented and amplify some of the inequities that are inherent in our system because the the systemic issues are such important determinants of health.
>> Well, like a lot of other nations around the world, Canada as a country is facing a few challenges from the political and economic front, cost of living crisis. Why is now the time to have a conversation on women's health?
>> Oh, there's lots of good reasons. And actually, one of the things I really like about the framework is that it understands the economic and social impact of uh women and and women's health on the country is massive. If you think really simply, 75% of healthcare workers are are women. If you think of women as the unpaid workers in our society, caring for children, caring for their aging parents or andor grandparents, looking after their jobs, looking after their homes, women continue to do more than one and a half times as much domestic unpaid labor as their partners do. And they pay a price for it.
>> How in what ways?
>> If we look forward, we'll look in in many ways. So economically women who are going through at the same time all of this is happening going through a menopause transition. What we see is women backing away from opportunities that their work provides them to go for the next promotion or take the next step up. And often what women are doing at this stage is stepping back because they have so many other responsibilities
>> and this should be like the prime of their lives.
>> The prime of their lives. And and that you can say for some women that's a that's an option. it's a choice and they're financially secure. But for other women, it means actually they're going to be taking a reduction in pay in their peak earning years, which is going to impact their lifetime earnings and their pension.
>> We look further ahead, we see that um poverty in older women is a real issue in in Canada. And we can see that women actually live more of their years in a state of poor health than do men. And that gap between how long we live and how long we live in good health is actually growing and it's growing more for women than it is for men.
>> Um I think too when you're going through those situations cuz health is such a personal thing to talk about but when it comes to like women's health we whisper a lot of that you know when we're in our periods we whisper when we go through the menopause transition you don't even want to mention it because it could impact your career.
>> Absolutely. Um, so it feels like a personal failing, but it really isn't because it's systemic. And part of that conversation is a pending bill. What is bill S243?
>> Bill S243 is a framework for accountability and a national framework around women's health. And at this point, it is very much that it's a it's a skeleton um but that really asks for a broader a definition of women's health that is more comprehensive. It asks for accountability and measurement and it asks for us to look at at global issues as well in equity issues, social issues. So the determinance of health and the impact of health more broadly.
>> It's important in Canada for us to have a framework. Britain has one, Australia has a very robust one. Canada we are behind in in having one. And we are also our our women's health is fragmented because we have 13 different health jurisdictions in Canada. Women don't differ very much between provinces, but the care they have access to sure does.
>> Um yes, uh healthcare is a provincial jurisdiction. It
>> this would be national. Um if it is national, would that compete with the priorities of the province?
>> It needn't. All it all it needs to do is outline, look, these are the things that you have to be measuring and taking into account when you're looking at women's health. This is best practice. This is a standard that you should be aspiring to. And it and it puts us all so that we're aiming for the same level of care. And I get it. There's differences in provinces and there's differences in how they're going to deliver care,
>> but we should all be aiming for the same outcomes. your group has made some amendments to strengthen the bill's impact. Can you walk us through those changes and why they were important to your organization?
>> Sure. So, the first of this is a comprehensive definition of women's health. For too long, we've defined women's health by being around reproductive outcomes. We've talked about birth control. We've talked about pregnancy. We might have talked about breast cancer and we might have talked about gynecologic cancers but we didn't talk about a lot of other uh things that that impact women's health
>> like migraines for example
>> migraines like cardiovascular disease the way in which it presents differently in women like autoimmune disorders which are so much more prevalent in in women. So we need to think more comprehensively but we also need to think about economic health and well-being. Um,
>> what does that mean?
>> Well, that that women have access to to secure means of of u to secure finances. So, when we look at if you put all of these things together, you think of someone who's living for example on a disability benefit who has a chronic disease which is part of her increased risk that she has as a woman. Now, she's living on a disability benefit. You have to think about what are her her security needs. If she goes outside in her neighborhood, is she is she actually secure to walk around in her neighborhood? All of these things are bound together. You can't separate them out and say, "Okay, health is access to a doctor." Well, even that, what [clears throat] are the medical clinics that are available to some of the more disadvantaged populations that we have? Well, when we just to talk a bit more about that because when people hear that women's health is under researched and uh not as understood, some people might think, well, why wouldn't be researched? Why would we not why are women different? Um, so what do we know about the reasons why women are more likely to be misdiagnosed for conditions like a heart attack or say HIV?
>> Some of it is because we can present differently. A woman may not present with the classical symptoms that we think of a man as having that heavy compression on the chest, the radiating p. A woman may present with something that sounds more like heartburn. Heartburn is a common condition. You have to think about it. But we also experience as women u unfortunately that dismissal of a symptom and I'll just a personal experience of mine that that going into um to be assessed at night when I was having my first asthma attack I didn't realize what was going on but all I knew was that I couldn't breathe and greeted by a doctor who knew me because we'd worked in the same emergency room and saying, "Jen, you always seem like a pretty happy person. Um, and and are I don't know what's going on. Are you having a fight with your boyfriend or something?"
>> I couldn't breathe. I had asthma. [laughter]
>> Oh, Emma G.
>> It was.
>> So, I my mind is blown first of all because it's like a different version of it's all in your head, right?
>> Yeah.
>> But you're also a medical professional, so this also happens
>> to to you.
>> Yeah. Oh yeah. And he was someone who would have called on me for my opinion and my expertise and another and all I could say was I've had plenty of fights. I could always breathe. [laughter] But now I can't. Wow. How did you feel in that moment? Like
>> I thought, "Oh boy, if it could happen to me, it can happen to anyone because he's someone who who knows me." And and you feel so dismissed. It was not a good moment.
>> It's a massive misdiagnosis, right?
>> Oh. Oh, yeah.
>> Uh we talked a little bit before we started recording. Uh we were talking about weight times. Gynecology weight times are not tracked in Canada. And depending on where you live, um if you have a family doctor, you it feels weird to say that I'm lucky to have a family doctor because of the shortages that we're seeing across the country. Uh and if you have a family doctor, they might be able to advocate for you and then you might be able to access better health care. We're also seeing more and more private clinics opening for those who are seeking menopause care. How would a national framework address the growing inequities we're seeing in healthcare in Canada right now?
>> That's hard to say based on the framework at this point. It's it's it's a pretty as I say it's a pretty open structure and healthc care is a provincial mandate but I think that to have standards set as to as to access uh and and what should that access look like gives the provinces something that they can aim for and say okay we need a primary care network we need to have 90% of our population needs to be rostered in some way and there are solutions. Um our in in our daughter who lives in England when they move house their postal code attaches them to a community clinic with with nurses, doctors, the the health prevent professionals. They've got all the all the standards that need to be met for care of children, for care of adults, for care of it's just you're it's rostered. Now what do you give up with that? You give up a little bit of freedom to choose your own doctor for sure. um but you have access to care and the care is of a standard. Those are the kinds of discussions that we um could undertake as a society to say at what point do we think everyone needs this?
>> Um Canada previously had a women's health strategy which was created in 1999. What happened to that and why do we need a new law?
>> Well, I think that what this law is asking for is accountability that here's a framework. this is what we expect. We expect disagregated data. We expect reporting on outcomes and and there and you'll be held to account for that. We need to see the data. And I think that it's been very well said if you don't measure something, it doesn't matter. You have to measure it,
>> right? It's not a problem if you don't see the numbers, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Uh the government recently passed a framework for men's health. According to reporting from the Canadian Press, one of the advocacy groups who called for a national framework said this quote, "75,000 Canadian men died prematurely in 2023 and many of their deaths were from preventable causes." The report found that a majority of men delayed seeking treatment for symptoms and less than half felt listened to when they first received health care. This is really important to address um what is happening to men across the country and I want to make it clear that this is not challenging the necessity of a framework for men's health. But why hasn't this framework for women's health also been passed?
>> Well, I think that it is right now in process and in hearings. So I'm I have every confidence that it will be passed and I can't say why the other framework passed more quickly. But what I can say is this just points out why we need to have these frameworks because the the the differences as to why women delay seeking care or receiving a diagnosis and why men do there are differences. Um, it as and as as I think about that, I'm also thinking about gender diverse people and where are their needs being met. I hope that they're as equally well represented in the men's health framework as they will be in the women's health framework as identification of of a group of people that need to be uh who have a lot of diversity within them but for whom we can say that there are additional barriers stigma and other reasons why they may not be seeking care. But if we don't disagregate men and women as a starting point and understand that their health needs are different, their barriers to health care are different, the social determinants of their health are different, then we're not going to serve either population well.
>> And when we say social determinance, we mean what?
>> Oh, social determinants are so important. U this has to do with uh with what opportun your childhood experiences. So uh adverse childhood experiences have a huge impact on mental health and well-being later on in life. Has to do with your economic circumstances. Has to do with this security and stability of your family, of your community, of your housing, access to to good nutrition.
>> Um are you in a home where there is violence?
>> There's so many of these factors that have a fundamental impact on health. and the research shows have a fundamental and longlasting impact on our mortality. But even more important when we start to look at these what we actually find out is they have multigenerational impact. Epigenetic changes is one of the big learnings that we have made in recent decades. The maternal environment, the intrauterine environment has profound impacts on the future health of a baby. This is it it affects the genetic coding. So, it's a it's a transmissible impact. And it's not just what you eat, it's also the the stress that you're under. So, maternal stress has an impact, maternal health status has an impact. All of these things impact the health of the next generation.
>> In September um 2025, President Trump caused a lot of confusion when he made remarks about Tylenol and pregnancy. We actually did an episode on the lack of research around medication that pregnant people can take when they're pregnant. Uh I I want to read something to you from the Montreal Gazette on how this bill could help address these blind spots.
>> Research shows that it can take up to 27 years to determine whether a medication is safe to use during pregnancy. For all that time, pregnant women and their unborn children may be exposed to unknown risks while evidence slowly accumulates. That is not a gap. It is a system failure. More than 80% of prescription drugs approved in Canada over the past two decades have been found to lack adequate safety data in pregnancy. Yet roughly 80% of pregnant women take at least one medication. The mismatch is stark and consequential. How could this framework address these research blind spots? When we talk about medication,
>> that's a critical blind spot because women need medication in pregnancy. If you can imagine being a woman who suffers with epilepsy, you need your medication. You don't want to be running the risk of a of an untreated epileptic seizure. And and that study is it's in it's absolutely correct. It is about 80 it's actually closer now to 90% of women take at least one medication during pregnancy. But many women need more than one u medication. Oftentimes it's four or five. Those interactions are also unstudied. And the right now the current state is if you're doing a drug study to look at something, say it's a vaccine study and a woman falls pregnant while she's enrolled in the study, she's automatically then excluded from the study. At the very least, you'd think you would keep track of her and keep track of the baby and the baby's health. So, u right now this is this is a huge gap. In Toronto, we actually used to have a very strong program that uh addressed that uh which was uh funded off the side of other research activities which led to its demise. Um there's a first exposure started up in Toronto at the University of Toronto School of Public Health, but it was phil philanthropically funded and again unable to to carry the burden. It's the the research that needs to be done is exhaustive. So a framework could certainly address and should address that because these impacts are important and it's not just if I take this medication is it going to cause my baby's tooth enamel to be discolored. It's is this going to cause my baby to be at increased risk for hyperactivity or neurodedevelopmental problems. Is it going to increase the risk of serious malf forations? We know a lot about the ones that that do cause the serious physical malf for the other other outcomes are much more difficult to determine, take longer followup. I think that there are ways that it can be done. I think that becomes a federal responsibility because that's Health Canada that that actually sets the the bar for medications that are available in the country and other countries are doing a better job than we are.
>> What are they what are they doing differently that we could be doing? Well, there first of all, they have national reporting of prescriptions so that you can actually track if you're in Scandinavia, you know what people are being prescribed and and what they're renewing so that you've got a sense of what people are taking and you can then link that to their birth outcome data and you can then link that to pediatric outcome data so that you can actually do those. we we don't have those kinds of of data collection mechanisms in Canada and and it would be such a straightforward thing to provide that but we know that in the states it's between 10 and 12% of women are prescribed a medication that is a known or potential terratogen those are the harmful ones in pregnancy um in Europe those numbers are closer to one to 3% so something is very different in societies where they have decided to go that extra distance of maintaining the records and doing the research and you you you don't protect women from research, you protect women through research.
>> Um because I think a lot of the explanation has been if women are pregnant, you want to keep them safe and the baby safe. So they it's harder, I guess, for them to do the clinical trials. Well, that's true. But if you have a medical condition that needs treatment, your option is to treat something where you don't have good data to rely on to guide practice.
>> And so in pregnancy, most of the prescribing that we do is so-called off label. We don't have actual research to guide the practice. Uh it's interesting you said off label because we've spoken to a lot of women who have different conditions and they're offered off label medication because there isn't a particular medication to treat those conditions like PCOS, endometriosis, fibroids. Um and something that we've been hearing a lot on the podcast from experts is that Canada as a country doesn't spend very much money towards women's healthc care research. And I think the percentage that I've been hearing is 7% under 7%. Is that true? It's it's it's really difficult to get money that is uh earmarked for research and even talking to the women's health hubs and and the and the great work that they're doing. The way research grants work there there is a short-term grant and then you have to reapply. So the kind of the long-term studies that we need if we're looking at these long-term outcomes that research is very hard to come by. And if you think that you're now working with women where you may have to break down not just the impact but what happens if you do make the intervention during the the early phase of the menstrual cycle or the late phase of the menstrual cycle. Now you have to have a a study design that's more complex. So in fact it takes more money to do the research and women to do it properly.
>> And in the interim uh women are just kind of left hanging. um women's health has been dismissed as niche as I I I alluded to earlier and there seems to be this reluctance to acknowledge the funding of research gaps in women's health as a result people are turning to social media for information [clears throat] for answers and it can be harmful and the way that social media um and disinformation travels it's very very fast right um what worries you most about the misunderstanding of what's happening in women's health
>> what's worrying me most is is the the motivation behind some of the work that gets in social media. There is there is an incentive for the people who are providing that information to provide just to to provide some emotional anger and irritation which which gets people galvanized. um that's okay except it also often harbors mistrust which is which is a problem then as a physician when you've got someone who comes in who's who's been told by their social media celebrity influencer not to trust your doctor your doctor's you know has been holding back information that that gives you an immediate barrier to setting up a therapeutic kind of a relationship with a patient and especially when someone's been waiting to see you
>> for a long time.
>> For a long time and they've got immediate access to another voice that is is not telling the whole story.
>> There's usually a grain of truth, sometimes more than a grain, but sometimes only a grain of truth in a lot of the postings that get made in social media and they get very rapidly widely widely disseminated.
>> And the problem when I read them is I say, "Well, yes, that's true." But there's also this whole other body of literature that would that would you would really have to take into account. It's not so simple as it's made to seem
>> and and that is obviously that doesn't sell well in social media. It doesn't sell well on the internet but it is the kind of complexity that people bring they to the to the table and and that's why consultations do take time. you have to sort out to say at the end of the of the of the story when you get to know someone what makes sense for them in their context we are all different. M um I think that's why this bill is so important because I think there's a lot of frustration, a lot of fear, a lot of um we women just don't know where to turn for the answers
>> and to see that there is a bill being
>> pushed forward to say this is what's happening in the country. These are some of the solutions. Uh in our final moments, can you uh tell us more about where the bill stands right now?
>> Well, the bill is waiting for for its next hearing. We will see if it's on the docket for June before everyone stops for the summer recess.
>> Um, have you thought about what if it doesn't pass?
>> If it doesn't pass, I think it that there will be there will be some learning from what were the areas that people u needed to hear more about why didn't it pass and just come back at it. I I would not take that as as a discouragement. I would take it as just a one of those setbacks,
>> more incentive to push forward.
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> Thank you so much. Uh I I was going to say Dr. Blake, but you said not to call you Dr. Blake.
>> Oh, you can [laughter] if you can in this context, if that makes
>> We appreciate your um expertise and we appreciate you being so generous in this conversation. Is there anything else that you'd like to add that I didn't ask you?
>> Well, one of the things that I think is important to say is in in Canada, we don't have a single health care system. So Britain has their national framework. They have uh they have the national health service which looks after the health of the of the population overall. We have to manage through our provincial systems and and there's advantages to health that's organized closer to home. But but there's also disadvantages. And so uh we see differences for example in what medications are approved in a provincial formulary.
>> Why should a medication be available to a woman if she lives in BC or Manitoba or Quebec but not if she lives in Ontario? It is not because she is any different. It is because a decision has been made an economic decision based on evidence but the same evidence was used in three other provinces that made a different determination. Those kinds of things are a bit crazy making when you're a doctor.
>> So a national framework that says here's what the evidence says. This is the better safer option or this is one that has very good reason why it would be preferred for for particular women and so should be covered. And it shouldn't be that we have to see women treated differently based on which province they live in.
>> As the kids would say, make it make sense.
>> Make it [laughter] make sense.
>> And Dr. Blake, thank you so much for being on. We appreciate it. Thank you very much for having me. That's a it's it's a really important piece of legislation and I very much appreciate you're giving it some uh some serious consideration with your listeners.
>> Thank you so much. That was great.
>> This was Mistreated. Thanks for listening. You can follow our show wherever you download your podcast so you can get notified each time a new episode is available. We would love to hear your feedback. You can write me an email at mistreatedodcast@tvo.org or reach out to me on social media. Mistreated was recently nominated for its first award. We are thrilled for the podcast to be recognized and our thanks to RTDNA for nominating us for best podcast. We shared the news on Instagram and I'd like to read a comment from there. It reads, "Congratulations. Thank you for creating this. It's been invaluable for me personally as I faced a decision about my fibroids. Your episode came out and I felt seen. I cried throughout the entire episode. I couldn't be more grateful for this information. Thank you so much for your comment and I'm really glad that the podcast is resonating. This week's episode was produced by Tiff Lamb and me and edited by Colin Kish. Digital shorts by Ariana Longley. Camera work by the TVO studio crew. Teleprompting by Olivia Chan. Production support from Jonathan Hallowell and TVO's digital media services team. Lori F is the executive producer of digital. Vanessa Case is vice president programming and content.
>> [music]
>> Thanks so much for listening.