Everyone About a week There's about To give you To report a single Last week Toe Toz right Tuesday First is First is off Bus and To work To be By the big Mee D-Mah And to leave our care not far. He very gently, when on the car, when warm, and when warm. The car, there's a more a more and a lot of you see, you're, you're, it's, and you're putting, it's, it's just for to be in He's sounding is a little sasha, is that one of the soundings, he said, his son's in Luan, he said, his son-in-eat-a-faheat, and he was sent to Mexico, back to go to south, now, the border-in-the-focene is not, and then back-in-lawed, His son in the military, he was in the same money, he's getting Uber, is helping her son and he's parents. He said her son have four children. Now, with her husband at each other, he's going to I say, to D.C. He said, now D.C. can't be able to get on the streets, you don't know you don't know. He said, big, the city, the police, the police, you know, people, people, they're trying to get, and, and took, and, and they, That is the Doughesau's land of the city's And then-oferred Faye to Washington, D.C. From the airport to metro to go to hotel, the carcane two-three-one. Last time I went to D.C. was in 2020 year. That time was Trump Donald. The White G. There was people around people who were people to be against people down the government. The street, there's people and there's shun-law of the Kuwait-N-W-D The U. Kuhn-W-N-W-D one-one, is three-man-e- people, just pay-degs-s-sown, not-pye-pye- and-pye-cach- and-e-te-n-old. Can-the-know-old, they've got from the-stun-bigh-bigh-bate. On-send, friends, to Battenworths and eat luncheon. This is a mega's Alt-new-Han-Out, Manga's new home-out. This is a good place of a farcourt. This is a good place. Kall-A-Shune, Kau-N-U-Suit, all very good-year-ligh-old. New York-lough-old-oldeat-old. From the night 7.5 to 11th The entire Cey-San-Ran, eat-and, and eat-and, and in the main-out-and-o-y-n-o-y-n-o-n. And, other we, and one, there are a woman, other people, just one one of one of one, the other one, and Some young people Shoeb's Trump's Eric Trump's that's from the front end from the front not the time of but from the but from from the whor-tto is a Eric Trump and they want they want to it is this this effect In un-mine-together, I know some friends. I've seen-saidst, but it was the first time. Also, also, it's a GIFANN-SU-REN. That's a very great, go-shrou-shu-to-scibly, also a cultural-gial-to-change-o. At night, at the street-to-see-t saw-the-cinct and G. And the U.S.E.S. We're after dinner, with friends went to go. We're in seeing a people, there's a patrol, you're in military, two men, and we're using the clough, call a boy of a new people, there's sitting in the front of the general situation, the people, there's there, but can help help help there. That's there. That's there. Are there? The Humans are out there. He can't out, he's very excited. There are people when the police why got that girl? A way one a way one said he like the people who took out of people. In the people, the people, the people are in the American and work, or work, also, there's D.C. There's D.C. There's a. D.C. to. There's Some young people are from out of the state and from Georgia, D.S.E.S. There are some South, also, also, also, also, people from Canada, fly over there. I think, we're going to get to the time, and take to each, listen, and talk, and talk, and social dialogue, is for to live more more more than. The content, not understand blogue will be broadcast out and then more more more time to the can't even get back. The whole one's making you think you especially super those the people, that is a many are men, and you know, but they can't be big men, but they're not too much I'm very so I'm people withal, and their power, and their courage, In the I'd even I can't ask a few men's to get where I'm to get there's not just one one of the people have this why why do people do most is women and the people and let me and I'm and I'm sharing about this time we we should we should we We are, we are now we're what's what's a time it's a this is a country and the the country, both, all the all of on on some it's this is this is the time The battle's the end all the players just are in the team all the people are you know is in waiting the this we're this is we're the time. China not the first experience this not the first This is the stuant's the state is the rule in the fact the white, the raw, to say to the wronged, the wronged, the wronged, said to in the in the last the last time the last full, the last year the same in the we've said we've got to the way, So, and wretched is this time. In the in the current, the whole government and the people the most the most the most is that is that to get right on the right is to do a mind-in-your-it-your-your-know-being. I think, not understand-boh-be-bocke, or understand-be-bi-Gee, and this channel, is from the view, to use the way-sac-to-kind and the people can more, more, more-some-know-kind. more than we're we're still in what's the time we're in the we're in front what we need how to do and how to do you know how to do you say the first first let us let our our own a time first set up we're trying we're and we're trying to we can't from the country's out of people, from China's education on from the world's from the world's being used the first large way page's the world was the country that's that's that kind of daintal, that small, and real, it, To a people For a people To be That's That's the people Not the That's not you don't get You put not you they're They're saying your thing, is you the's the things. This isn't being just just fraud And you If if they are saying you not not you didn't make To help the first one is syspoe, this "Hupper this one way way of "'What-of-Ko-Kobeyed 'tash' "'They are those those "'thew-the-settonged out of land-sih. "'Sispoeepoed this one way "'howing their "What-Guizabeth' "'Sharehame''sus''sorew nation' "'their'sue-one' "'Is it is 'bosos the "070svue" "'p't' 'vue 'tis'i' 'tie-gou-the-gown-a-the-cue-all-the-a-a-the-pye-the-a-the-all-a.' The world has what meaning? What's there is some meaning? The "Going' the people is just in that it is the only a 'no. 'You can't be "What' he has been 'all who is 'no, is for the control the people. The country's they're saying. People are they don't putt to put. Pung a thing. They tell you, they're going to be, the country, you can't put the you can't your the thing your your life, even your your life, your kent, these you actually say the things, you're not, just that's the so-the-the-s--sa-sa-the-s, the so-weigh-the-the-cue, This is a human-jured. There's a One of a time when you you you can control the they can they're they're the most this is the people they're they're they're just one just to to control you and to control you not control you the way and control your people and you're In the at the special time you get you get the you will do you have so you make sure you can you can know you you can't you should be you live the little you you are you can you can show to you can say to the and say to some to say you you are some the people you are so There are some of the majority to un-weigh from the 100-year-to-than-all-like to be the 100-year-old, if the most are all the most always chide-mo, chai-mort, doesn't know what to what does mean. In China, at least is with the social, and culture- and the question. If you're looking right and do right, you can't be a small-to- Over-the-one, in the first of the many, from Man Qing, chenmin, to the people, to now-being-sou-be-some-to-know-to-all-such-and-o-hru-cings. In some of the history of time, they they're doing the system is out, malle, in other history time, they're they're doing to share of social's-e to the power-shund, from the time, the most pay not much pay not be they m'et, by them m'est, by them made them they're, This is we're the reality This is our our own the people of the people not. Of course not it's but this is we're not the reality we're in the we're at thinking first we're first we understand we we're what we're seeing In "Inminexia on the general "'Without' talk about "'withs. Napeau a word. "'The world is what it is. "'Many who are nothing, "'who allow themselves to become nothing, "'have no place in it.'" "'Sirget is the world. "'That's what-is-one-shewere-the-one-the-one-the-been-the-she-been "'manyuze' "mere no place.' And why is there's to bring to you guanstue of the laws of just for just to control your mind and you become a and you become a somebody and you make me make it to be making it to make it to be a use and use and you use to like So in this time, a very important is to give you do you know to do you run and then not something a nothing, a whatever not is the person, not even if not even not thing. To do that it's important a point of one important one is that you want to give you but they that type, hinged, far,,,,,, and, to, to, their name, to them, "You-Mah, the country." This is a good-you ma', the countryma, it's not my name. It's just a man, I remember that I was 20-year-old-year-old in what place to do that this word ma'am. If it's said, "What country," it's said, "What, This is a good-just to do a country, people, and the people, the people, your own always is your top-eater. With a one of the people's you're always is the "eigh, you're not, you can't take the government, but you have to do their own own-send-futzer not-un-un-he them by us not-o-you- nothing it's a way in in the in the state-of-e in the people, people will have a quite have got, that we feel that people, get-a- and then- life-as--of-she-s making-n- to-the--shy–-suit-the-shy-scied- by-tall-she-s'-s'-stst-could- To be it to get into our own-in-chingship, our human-scient, our own-of-the-scient, to have a gain-stead-of-the-cure, to have a strong-go. The "O.E.E.O. is a sui-gied-to-Rondom. Political evil has a hard core. the "Thinge's evil's a "'tow-do-heat-goed-neigh-neux. "'We may really the right of the "'isage-of-hue, "'fing-n-wun-quant, "'but can continue to do-er, "'and can't continue-up-a-poh-pohy-poh-jew-hick-hally "'are-cah-cath-a-old-chart-hocou-hout-hack, "'reau-chchchahed-a-chee, "'this is his-huehah. First, politics, all one and yet all the law and over the over the year, the world world's the problem the impact the large is the security government all would go build a whole new theory and the language the and the people and so the people and the This type of For all All right-Ren-Ley-Fan-Sing Toeux Toeux, Let's-Suiz-as-in-N-Lead-Deghru, Even to make sure Full-Call-Kal-Kang, full-shrim-kinds, this is not-shing-Syshack in-Sew-Xed and a huge-o-o-lust-o-o-o-oh-he-o-hirt. It's a huge-o-hru-bcourt-scied. Next, he has a "o'o' 'inst, "'ifference, you know, "'that's familiar the Lening-Long, "'Mow' "'he's called a gins-taxie-tory, "'healniginged to, "'kevue, or, "'her own-soeat, "'and-sue, can't-cote, "'and-go-co-docheeing. "'This,'-o-suit-all-cuit-all-hack-hack-o-hout-hack-old-hack-hack-all-hack-human-shean-st, Other the "Lieux-in-Head, and it's "'What else, it's just-bred, "'withing more right-wise-word-safeet, "'you're a rule-fraper-in-h-her. "'There a two-mour-tong-one-the-hundred-hundred-huit, "'tong-coubyshaw-chety-chee-eigh-cichee-eat, "'a-techin-centee-hear-cuit-hap-hehrin-hore. This system, especially for nought-chew-chew-dened-gen-in-so-just-eat-eat-one. So, with this "Inhaheatheur"" You're being a 'huehockechang's a dead-too-monged, not a "Their-o'"" People just Coupingue, just call feelings, no power to do with the system. The power is what? The power from the power, from the system. A way one's the people said you know, and I'm like you and so see-s-ce--tac-tac--tac-t and it's listening when you're listening to I'm I'm not like I'm quite like to see what I'm people people's people's people, When you're pining, make-wizal and new-tron- and guan-sue and the one not just can't the the and the and the if you can't in the the end-and-and and all that's that's this one of the opinion gave me a great I'd like to say far when a good good-ofed-to-pot-prued people in-of-the-since-o there are insta-of-state the first first is the feeling on-kind-sion y'em-cuh fend-noo, vows, and-sou-s-sh-wonged and-o-sh-wonged and so- This is very important It's very It's a very human right. It's a against evil end up the first force of but if you have always can't would end up a crime One is burn out energy energy can't get back end up hate and pain and and it's much and and in the time. In the being to the people and people will be able to feel there is a network, is a good-go of social, is a long-cooked. And personal, and the human-kind is bau-domed, and it's human-kind to front-to-the-cancon social-eat and it's using the to knock-stall. It would put-swoy, it will be per-sui, you're you're quite in in heart-cheeching to gna-hahn like whenceing around and find out of all around all around all the all the most of or not much about or can read-n- or don't and you know-and- your na-hahn not-and- not--and- not-e and-he--n- This time, the gall-ang of the feeling will soon fall into deep-up. This is a huge-d-lac- enough-as- quite-caught- people, without-stead, and there's people, people, people, even if it's people, also say a-h-h-e--chew-e- that-oh-s--sure, that's that-fent-o. That's-fent-o. One, if if it's just because of fendom to move, would very be fendom to tund, become to pious, be penit, boughed, lost to the right, and to show, even to expo, to bough, to give-and-pon-stall. In un-jew-du-due in-the-sue-fonged their way and way-in-way-forms to start them to their-the-the-concound to-long. if if you're in the way and the people's one of the everyone's the entire and the people can't be by the people and it's being in the country and they've got they're to make they're not the They're against their second They're their own-seller Their own-since Their own-eastern Their own-kent Their own-kent They're a fan-she By-Fenture-Nove-chew-chew-chew-treatom and their-te-one- They've been There's more-Fewed Mient Yeah, Mew, Chis-Cch-Crom-T. This is all the more "Fent They let them They've got them Anti-Cond of Their own They've been It's been to a political and it's Coupes. Just because just by the self-kind and can't get people end up chenruism. Chiquing will hard-in and do you make sure make make sure make sure make sure make sure that's at the most of the times it's not much can't get to the people You young a moment, a minute's a few of the single and the of the system, then it's ent in the and then and all the the whole all no, all the all the everywhere, they're they're they're just using People do this one way. For example, every year young person, do a huge thing, stand out and chung-ta, all will be a few-sum-some-some-say-or, or a big-shrone-called, "What-some use?'' "May-one.'" But, This is that's just is many of the people's people are in terms of life. There's many people have worked on time. Many people have done-distance from time. also have an end-stead-stead-of-the-care, and have a deep-ythew-shunded, in the strong, also, also, to build a ghan-stead-stead-like-kind. This is not a good-and-who-wet. It's not, it's the most-guelly-to-kind-hoyant, and it can't keep, and to keep-ehan-li-ligh-the-ran-sall, and not just to soon-stall-hame. this, and good-of-the-seem-gest is there is a so far there's some quite things. The first is a bit of social, to do-to--the-counter- the-h-he--of-he-hete- and system-st, and school-stich-s-hally-e, get-e-suit- to-n-eus- to-the-l-e to-the-l-ch--l-l-ch-eck-eckon--l-l-ch-cuit-ttment-ta-tet-tall-l. is, it can't even more than-crued, let us have a certain degree, and to understand the ability, and to understand a certain logic ability. To be it's great, and to learn, to, and to get-scient, and to get-scient, and other than the logic-move, and to bea-been, and to different is, can't make sure is, can't The third is to becky value build a state world, and we're good people freedom, do you know human people, and so long everyone respect, and so on the fact the value. This the value let us we're in a wu' to be uncied became the way, the time, the not to be a misst form and be not the way the the end At the last, I think to keep to keep down the life and then don't let me make it make it every people pay you can't and own and all and by and the self and evil and there's the security there are just you just to just you're to make The Duccivil Are Cons-Frix Both are all-of-a-farmé to control you, full-of-a-to-cook you to control not to control you how to and to control you to make. As far, in our own your own way to live, is to be due society's anti-sac- and- this-on- counter- this-of- is the most In life in life, other than other than other, there's having a more having, and there's and the human, and also there, and there human, there, people, and there and there also, and there all the world, and other the other, and In the In the last 10th, in the history of these these over the things are often is the not just a single and is a a complete full-heartedly and So to here, we can small-jet a little-ish. You have, to counter-nue-hue-hug-ish-eat, people can't just by people can't-heat-sheat-sheet, or e-chang-wet, not just bying-kind or feelings, but it's not-is-is-law-gey, for each-estab-kind to build-kind-estab-kind. Let this-lis-coe, to make a real-sum-scent-stall-old to-o-send. To be in their way to live, this is to the free-o-tac and to do-o- to the social, and the other, and more good-e- and the can't- say, a can't- from a-the-each--each--gent-o--e-s-e--e-er- and-sci-s-s-o-e-sus-o-e--er. There are many things we're in from growing in a way, and in a, the the the the the most of the know-being, the right? The reason is, and ought only to be the slave of the passions. David Hume, even said, "Lieuzee is and ought only to be the slave of the passions.'" I very I very very no question. No. No. No. We can't we're today's the right because because of our our we can just call and can't can't change and it's To have been in effect to fight Our system Our system So we have a GENTRY should have a GERXED to Make KINC in a new Our own We can't Make a new line. We can't like the fuel Thecue is like the vehicle And so you You put in a shale up on the you put on the fire just all right and it's not really but it's the same all the whole like the fuel down in the car could be can't can be to get into in the energy in the so can make make turn against to fight and the good so I'm talking today the today I'm next again Thank you.