Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today I want to talk to you about urging marriage
For many unmarried young Chinese
Being urged to get married by parents and relatives during the Chinese New Year
It's an uncomfortable thing
Even quite painful
In the past 2025 Spring Festival
Many netizens said
Relatives and family
Questioning about one's marital status
Even if you are overseas
They may also be hinted or pressured by their parents over the phone.
Therefore, the Spring Festival
Also Chinese
A high incidence period for family conflicts and psychological problems
Just a few days ago
A netizen told me about his pain of being urged to get married
I think his family situation is very representative.
So today's video
I want to combine his story
Let's talk about why Chinese parents like to urge their children to get married.
If you are interested in today's video
or
Do you have any topic you want to discuss with me?
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to our topic today.
First of all, this netizen is 28 years old
During the Spring Festival
He and his father originally planned to visit the graves together to pay respect to their ancestors.
However, on the morning of departure
Dad suddenly became very silent
Don't talk to him
Seems to be very dissatisfied with him
This kind of cold violence made him very painful
He understood that this was his father's resentment towards his single status.
During the Chinese New Year
They had many heated arguments because of the pressure to get married.
His grandmother also thinks
Not getting married at this age is a big problem
And told his dad that he could use words to stimulate his
This family atmosphere made him feel suffocated.
Relatively speaking
Mom and grandma are more tolerant of his choices
Facing the pressure to get married
People tend to attribute it to the following reasons
First, China’s collectivist culture
For example, this article says:
The Chinese believe that they must
To live like others
Seems "different"
It means abnormal, unsafe,
When your child reaches marriageable age but is still alone
I heard from my aunts and uncles that
"Why haven't your children gotten married yet?
No children were born."
Mainstream Chinese parents
Feeling anxious and panicky
As if being left out of the group
In order to ease the pressure of public opinion that is not recognized
They pass this anxiety on to their children
The second explanation for urging marriage is Confucian culture.
For example, in traditional Chinese concepts
It doesn't acknowledge true love.
The ultimate goal of marriage is to build a family
Continuing the family line
That is what the Book of Rites says:
Will unite the two surnames
The emperor served the ancestral temple
And the following generations
As for whether the two people's spirits are compatible enough
This goes beyond the need to pass on the family line.
It's not worth considering too much.
Many Chinese parents do not completely ignore the inner qualities
But the things they focus on are very superficial
As long as the basic psychological conditions for living are met
You can get married now
For example, men are practical and capable
A gentle and virtuous woman
As for the deeper inner qualities
Such as values, thinking style and inclination
Nothing is more important than living life
certainly
The word "living" is also very Chinese.
We can also discuss this later
Overall
Whether due to collectivist culture
Or Confucian culture
It is Chinese culture first.
This can certainly be largely
Explaining Chinese parents’ anxiety about their children’s marriage
But it is not enough to attribute this
What we are asking is
Is this culture the result of the natural development of human nature?
If it is not natural
It's distorted.
So what is the path of this culture?
What about the individual mind?
As we said in our video on October 27
What was said
When we talk about culture
It is important to note that there are two kinds of culture
One is a specific choice
For example, do you prefer to use chopsticks or forks?
Do you prefer to wear cheongsam or suit?
Chinese culture in this sense
It can be tolerated as personal freedom
But there is also a culture in an abstract sense
For example, this culture of urging marriage
This culture is not free.
It's distorted
Because we think
No group of people
I naturally like a life without personality and freedom
In addition, if we think that China’s collectivism
Or maybe Confucian culture is the essential answer
Nor can it explain why in this culture
Between individuals
Why are there so many differences in reflective ability?
And what causes the differences between them?
therefore
We are not concerned with the culture as a whole here.
It is the process of individual psychological development
In my opinion
China's marriage-urging culture
If this is a culture
It is a product of trauma
This is manifested in two aspects:
First, trauma causes parents’ mentalization abilities to be impaired.
Poor mind-reading ability
That is, we often fall into the psychological equivalence mode.
psychic equivalence
The psychological equivalent mode is a primitive state
It is too easy to project inner feelings onto the outside world.
Inability to differentiate and label one’s own experiences
With the real world
Inability to interpret and reflect on one’s own experience
When they express their feelings
When projected onto others
They will feel
The negative feelings are so strong
It's like a real threat.
As a result, they often behave in an aggressive manner.
And can't feel the other person's emotions
This is also the main characteristic of borderline personality
We can see
Many parents can say this when urging their children to get married.
Very harsh and irritating language
Or use painful cold violence
for example
Some parents would say
"You are still not married at this age.
Don’t you feel ashamed?”
This is actually
Themselves
Fear and anxiety about being judged by others
But their minds
Drowning in this unreflective feeling
They took the experience at face value.
and project it to the child
They can't imagine
The pain that children feel after hearing these words
Similar findings are seen in patients with PTSD.
The inability to maintain multiple perspectives on a particular experience
Difficulty understanding their own and others’ experiences
So it's not so much a cultural
It's more like a trauma
In normal state
An individual should be able to implicitly guide
Any experience has depth of interpretation
Between inner feelings and external reality
There is a lot of room for explanation.
Different interpretations can lead to completely different feelings
This is what we often call metacognitive ability.
Monitor your thoughts and cognitions.
Thinking and Evaluation
If parents have metacognitive abilities
He will first realize:
Your own ideas are first generated by yourself
This seems like nonsense.
However, many people forget this
Directly equating one's own beliefs with the other party's beliefs
Then evaluate the other person's mind
Metacognitive ability
Can't do without one
Attachment relationships that reflect and mirror children’s emotions
When parents are able to
Give accurate feedback
Children are able to label their emotions
And adjust and encode it
thereby
Make your own experience cognitively applicable
And based on this
To predict one's own and others' emotional states
So
Why do many Chinese parents lack
What about the ability to mentalize and read minds?
Let's start with the video
Take the netizen mentioned as an example
He said his father's entire family had problems.
Higher rates of mental illness
This is with his father
The whole family's experience is directly related
Because of class issues
His father's family
Suffered a long period of discrimination and attack
After 1949, his grandmother was classified as a landlord.
My great grandfather once did
Grassroots cadres of the Kuomintang regime
Died an unnatural death in the early 1950s
This led to my father's entire family
They have fallen into long-term learned helplessness
And a stronger group
and fear of being unsociable
Because of the long history
Plus, people tend to forget trauma.
He had a hard time getting through interviews and inquiries
Understand the situation of your father or grandparents at that time
But according to the historical records of that era
It is not difficult to guess the psychological state of people at that time.
for example
In this video we talk about intergenerational trauma
Just mentioned
By 1963,
Class Composition
Behavior that has permeated into one's personal life
Children and family members of the five black categories
In terms of employment, further education and marriage
Being discriminated against
Even if these people were born after 1949
Some areas even stipulate
The requirement for primary school to junior high school is that family background accounts for 60 points
Performance accounts for 20 points
5 points for academic performance
Others 15 points
In some factories
Workers with bad ingredients
Not allowed to operate precision machine tools
Because of the fear of sabotage
In all the struggles
Black five categories of families
Almost certainly a priority target
The methods of punishment include lectures, kneeling, tying up and beating, etc.
We can totally imagine
In this environment
Parents with bad ingredients
I am filled with anxiety and fear.
There is no spare energy to respond to and reflect children's emotions
Not only that
Children also tend to become vessels for their parents’ emotions.
This will lead to a person
Staying in a more primitive emotional mode
on the other hand
Because of class background, the whole family will be implicated.
A person's composition is not good
His children and family will be discriminated against.
This in turn led to
Further strengthening family ties and values
Because family members
We have experienced common trauma and helplessness.
They will place more hope on passing on the family line.
Expand your community
Give your life meaning and motivation
As
We mentioned in our video on October 27 last year
Many traditional cultures seem ancient
But it is actually promoted because of the current needs.
Even invented out of thin air
Anderson believes
Nation is an imagined social construct
It does not exist naturally
It is formed through people's common imagination.
Members of an ethnic group may not know each other.
But through the recognition of common language, culture and history
They formed an imaginary connection
This also means
In the new environment
Out of some practical need
National culture can also be invented again
therefore
My father is obsessed with urging marriage and continuing the family line.
Rather than replicating a certain Chinese culture
It is better to say
It is due to the lack of material and spiritual
In contrast
The mother of the party
Although I tend to exert pressure and control at the beginning
However, after consultation and communication
The mother showed her traditional ideas
A higher level of reflection
Be more tolerant and understanding of her emotions
Grandma also thinks
It is normal for young people not to get married at this age.
The child just has his own ideas
This is related to my grandmother's obsession with urging marriage
A sharp contrast
This contrast
Obviously, the trauma experienced by both families
There is a direct relationship
The Second Level of Trauma
The deprivation of social support system
Or
We talked about this in the video about intergenerational trauma.
After 1949
Local governments should take measures against the five black categories
A policy of isolation was generally adopted
In some rural areas of Shandong
Government regulations
People who were classified as landlords were not allowed to watch plays.
Not allowed to speak to the masses
You must bow your head and give way to anyone you meet on the road.
Officials can enter the house to check at any time, etc.
This means
Individual and family
Excluded from the normal functioning of society
Falling into a state of social death
This kind of "social death"
It’s not just about physical isolation
It's more about depersonalization on a psychological level.
Individuals are seen as incomplete and unsocial beings
for example
Two or three relatives were talking about him behind his back.
His fear and anxiety can easily become generalized.
He feels like the whole world is criticizing him.
Because he easily feels
People around us, government, country
The whole world seems to be one
For those who are of bad class
Those people and cadres who come from good families,
Local government, central government
It's all iron plate
Both represent the ability to suppress oneself.
The Power of Monitoring Yourself
If an individual challenges any of them
Just challenge them all
For them
The whole structure of society appears so strong and unified
So that they feel
Any reflection or resistance to external norms or evaluations
will directly threaten the survival and safety of
They can't imagine
The outside world has different views
If someone opposes you
Then he just represents a group.
Because different groups
Great diversity in views and values
So in theory
No matter what your opinion is
In a society
Find a group that supports you
so
When an individual is in a group
You can maintain your independence and freedom
Without having to feel
I am a lonely person
To fight against others
Even if you are in reality
No conditions to link your community
But as long as you can infer
There must be such a community in the world
can to a large extent
Relieve the feeling of isolation
However
Due to long-term deprivation and isolation
They often can only perceive one side of society.
in particular
The perception is of a unified threat or pressure
So they can’t perceive
Other views in society,
Groups and possible support
this
It will make individuals extremely obedient to external evaluations.
This is also consistent with the "psychological equivalence model"
That is
Individuals are unable to distinguish their own subjective views
The objective reality of the external world
All external information
will be emotionalized and self-projected
Lack of self-criticism
and the ability to make independent judgments
In fact, many Chinese families have psychological problems
It seems that it is due to persistence and adherence to a certain culture
But on a psychological level
can all be seen as the accumulation and inheritance of trauma
A person does not become a person just because he grew up in China.
You must have the thinking methods of Chinese culture.
The key lies in his personal experience and mental journey
This microscopic environment
Including the physical environment
and the psychological environment perceived by the individual
It determines people's minds more than the overall culture.
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
Before the formal communication, I will
Read
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!