From the New York Times, it's the headlines. I'm Tracy Mumford. Today's Friday, November 21st. Here's what we're covering. [Music] I intend to make it clear to President Trump that I will work with him on any agenda that benefits New Yorkers. If an agenda hurts New Yorkers, I will also be the first to say so. At the White House today, Zoran Mdani, the mayor elect of New York City, will meet face tof face with President Trump after the two have spent months clashing publicly. Trump has been falsely calling Mani a communist and said he should be arrested. Mam Donnie has said he wants New York City to help write the playbook for how to defeat Trump and his political movement. While neither side has said what they're going to be talking about today, given Trump's previous threats to send the National Guard into the city and withhold billions of dollars in federal funding, the stakes are high. Notably, Mamani has vowed to hire 200 extra city lawyers, in part to push back against the administration. Still, Trump has a vested interest in New York City's success because of his multiple real estate holdings there. And in private, he's described Mam Donnie as a talented politician, calling him slick and a good talker. Now, two more updates on the administration.
>> Just to be clear, does the president want to execute members of Congress?
>> No. Let's be clear about what the president
>> the president sparked an uproar in Washington yesterday when he accused a group of lawmakers of sedition and shared a post on social media saying quote hang them. Trump was targeting six Democrats who'd posted a video reminding troops and members of the US intelligence community that they are obligated to refuse illegal orders.
>> We know this is hard and that it's a difficult time to be a public servant. But whether you're serving in the CIA,
>> the Army or Navy,
>> the Air Force,
>> your vigilance is critical.
>> That guidance is a standard part of military training. But Trump administration officials have said the lawmakers were encouraging service members to rebel against the president. encouraging. We have 1.3 active duty service members in this country and if they hear this radical me message from sitting members of Congress that could inspire chaos and it could incite violence and it certainly could disrupt the chain of command. In a statement responding to Trump's threat, the Democratic lawmakers said, quote, "What's most telling is that the president considers it punishable by death for us to restate the law." And the Trump administration has announced one of the president's most significant steps yet to increase the production of fossil fuels. A plan to open up more than a billion acres of coastal waters to new oil and gas drilling. That's an area more than half the size of the US. And under the proposal, the Interior Department would hold leases of federal waters in the Pacific, the Gulf of Mexico, and previously untouched areas off of Alaska. The plan is already facing bipartisan push back over environmental concerns. California's Democratic Governor Gavin Nuome has said he'll try and block drilling off the coast of his state. And Republican Senator Rick Scott of Florida said he's urged the administration to stop any new drilling there. Fishing and tourism industries in the Gulf were devastated by the Deep Water Horizon disaster in 2010, which killed 11 people and spilled millions of gallons of oil. [Music] The US Coast Guard has revised its policies on harassment and changed its stance on displaying swastikas and nooes. In the past, any displays of those symbols were clearly referred to as incidents of hatred and prejudice that have quote no place in the Coast Guard. But the updated policy, which was signed off on by a top Coast Guard officer last week, raises the bar for whether someone can be punished for it. Displaying them in public will be considered what it calls divisive only if they affect quote good order and discipline, unit cohesion, command climate, morale, or mission effectiveness. Displays in private spaces are specifically allowed under the new guidance. In a statement to the Washington Post, the current acting head of the Coast Guard insisted nothing is changing about how the symbols are handled and said things like swastikas violate the military branch's core values. He later signed a memo saying the Coast Guard does not tolerate the display of hate symbols, but he didn't address the updated instructions allowing them in private. Other revisions to the harassment policy removed protections for transgender troops following President Trump's executive order that barred trans people from serving. It also takes up the issue of hazing. Defense Secretary Pete Hegsth has championed the practice as a way to instill what he calls a warrior ethos. Under the definition now provided by the Coast Guard, hazing, which can include physical violence, can have a quote proper military or other governmental purpose. A representative of the Southern Poverty Law Center, a nonprofit civil rights group, called the policy updates a national embarrassment. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zilinski says he's willing to engage on a peace plan proposed by the White House even though the Trump administration put it together in consultation with Russia but not Ukraine. The proposal, which the White House says is still a work in progress, comes with 28 points, some of which have been deal breakers for Ukraine in the past. It calls for Ukraine to limit the size of its army, and that the country surrender territory to Russia, even land that it has not yet captured. European officials have been dismayed at the idea of any plan that doesn't include Ukraine's input and theirs. And an EU diplomat said he hadn't heard about any concessions that Russia would have to make under the proposed agreement.
>> Nice to see you.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> Thank you. Thank you for coming, sir. Zilinski met with US military officials this week in Kev to discuss what's next. He hasn't committed to any specifics, but some in Ukraine think Washington might be trying to pressure him into settling while his country is in a vulnerable spot. A recent corruption scandal has weakened Silinsk's government. On the front lines, Ukraine is running out of soldiers, and Russia is continuing its attacks on infrastructure and civilians. On Wednesday, Russia launched nearly 500 drones and a wave of missiles in an overnight strike. One of the missiles hit an apartment building in the western part of the country, killing at least 25 people and wounding dozens more. And finally, there's a bidding war underway that could change the trajectory of the entire entertainment industry. Warner Brothers Discovery, the media giant that owns not just the Warner Brothers movie studio, but also HBO and CNN, is up for sale. And three media heavyweights have put in offers for at least parts of the company. There's the comparatively young whippers snapper Netflix making a play, which could give them control of super lucrative IP like Batman and Harry Potter. There's Comcast, which already owns Universal and NBC. And there's Paramount, which is widely considered to be the front runner. Paramount's chief executive, David Ellison, is coming armed with billions from his father, Larry Ellison, who co-founded the tech giant Oracle and is one of the world's richest men. The Ellison's have gone allin on media this year. David Ellison took over Paramount and CBS just this August and is already trying to pull off this massive new purchase of Warner Brothers Discovery. Plus, his dad is one of the investors moving to take control of Tik Tok in the US. If all their plans pan out, that would put the Ellison's in charge of a vast new media empire stretching from viral videos to TV news to movie theaters. Ultimately, if Warner Brothers accepts one of the offers, any deal will still need to be approved by federal regulators, meaning the buyer will have to win over not just executives, but also potentially the White House. Both David and Larry Ellison have developed close ties to President Trump. Those are the headlines. If you'd like to play the Friday News quiz, stick around. It's just after these credits. This show is made by Will Jarvis, Caitlyn Pressy, Yan Stewart, and me, Tracy Mumford. Original theme by Dan Powell. Special thanks to Isabella Anderson, Lissa Anderson, Miles McKinley, Zoe Murphy, and Paula Schuman. Now, time for the quiz. You know the drill. We have a few questions about stories the Times has been covering this week. Can you get them all?
>> First up,
>> I just want to say that uh Crown Prince Muhammad, we're delighted to have you with us at the White House. Very special. Very, very special. President Trump pulled out all the stops to welcome the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, including throwing a lavish black tie dinner on Tuesday night with a packed guest list. The head of FIFA was there. So was the head of Apple. And there was another guest making his first appearance at the White House in months since his relationship with the president hit a rocky patch. Your question, who was it? the answer.
>> You're so lucky I'm with you, Elon. I'll tell you, you are
>> Elon Musk.
>> Musk and the president, of course, had a dramatic falling out back in June. Musk posted that Trump was in the Epstein files. Before any of those were released, Trump called Musk's behavior crazy, and Musk walked away, dismissing his time in DC as what he called a hell of a side quest. Now though, the world's richest man seems to have made up with the president as he dips his toe back into politics. Next question. In the US, the Motion Picture Association is the group that gives movies their ratings. From the very familyfriendly G to the Trey Risque NC17.
>> Now get undressed. The association assembles a group of 10 parents who watch the movies and factor in among other things nudity.
>> Y some drugs,
>> substance use,
>> nobody makes me bleed my own blood. Nobody.
>> And violence to come up with their official rating. For years, the MPA's been pretty buttoned up about its exact calculations. But now, in a new guide that the MPA has quietly rolled out, it's disclosing more specifics than ever. The guide isn't a hard and fast formula, of course, but based on the new details, we're going to give you some scenarios, and you tell us what rating you think it would earn. A character in the movie drops an Fbomb. What's the rating? That'll get you PG-13, as long as the movie has just one F-word, or the guide says a possible one or two more. Next, the film has weapons, but they're not realistic. They're like laser guns and glowing swords. That's PG. A follow-up, though. What if the injury from a weapon is evident? So, you're like seeing a gunshot wound or knife slashes. That's the kind of imagery that will tip something into an R rating. Next, there are some brief background sounds of sex. That's PG-13. And last one, what if characters in the movie are smoking marijuana? [Music] That used to pretty much get you an R. Now, just PG-13 as long as the drug use is infrequent. Moving on to the last question. Recently, there's been a surge of criticism online over a new suite of products on the market.
>> Today in what kind of capitalist hellscape are we living in? I give you the skinincare line targeting called
>> the products are aimed at one very particular demographic.
>> Experts like me sounding the alarm about how using the wrong products can actually harm physically. But now
>> that target audience is what's riing people up.
>> I have so many problems with this first.
>> So your question, who are these controversial new skin care products for?
>> The answer.
>> Want to know what I think is a little bit weird? Skinare for toddlers.
>> Kids as young as 3 years old continuing the trend of skinare products aimed at younger and younger audiences. It has many people asking, "Does my preschooler really need a face mask?" At the same time, people who defend the product say kids want to do everything adults do, so why not have an age appropriate option for them so they're not lathering on acids and retinols meant for much older skin? Now, if your answer was skin care for dogs, I will actually give you the point because the Times did also cover the growing beauty category for pets. I learned there are companies out there selling dry shampoo for your dog. And Dolce and Gabbana has rolled out a $99 K9 perfume that it describes as a quote tender and embracing fragrance crafted for a playful beauty routine. That gives me hope for my side project, nail polish for cats. I'm kidding. That already exists and I'm horrified. That's it for the news quiz. If you want to tell us how you did, our email, as always, is the headlines@ny times.com. I'm Tracy Mumford. We'll be back on Monday.