[Music] Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Sunday market futures. We are live. Thank you everybody for being here. I hope everyone had a great weekend and uh well, we're green. We are pretty freaking green. And the reason we are green, just like we were green at the end of the day on Friday after dealing with a pretty aggressive draw down that ended at around 2 pm Eastern on Friday. The reason we are green is because it looks like this shutdown is coming to an end, folks. It looks like this shutdown is coming to an end. Uh we don't officially have every single detail on it. The majority of what I'm seeing in terms of headlines is that this shutdown is done. The Senate, yes, is in session right now. They will be taking a vote. Based on reporting from Politico and Bloomberg, it seems like they have enough Democratic votes to get the job done. And if it happens, then we've got an agreement to end the shutdown. Some details that we have. The Senate will advance the House's stop gap measure and proceed with a funding bill that provides fullyear funding for the VA, agriculture, and military construction. Same thing with SNAP benefits. Funding for extending other agencies will be granted through January 30th. So, we're going to have to do this rodeo again in about two months, but at least it's better than, you know, being shut down for the next two months. And Democrats have also secured a December vote to extend ACA subsidies. So, this is not the bill that is going to extend those ACA subsidies, at least not yet. But there's guarantees of backay and rehiring for furoughed federal employees along with that vote in December, which is not an entire shutdown vote, but rather an ACA subsidy vote. I don't know how the Republicans are going to navigate that vote because that was kind of the main reason for why we've been shut down for the past 40 days. But this is better than nothing, and it looks like the shutdown is at least coming to an end. Uh, and as a result, you got futures that are green. You've got futures that are green. So, we got a lot to talk about, a lot of headlines. I hope everyone had a great weekend. As you can see right here in the overnight markets, um, we are relatively green. We're about to open up again. Futures are green. Ethereum is the one making a move. It's been a minute since Ethereum had a nice little 5% day, but there you go. Actually, a 7% day. 3600 on Ethereum. 3650. And then Bitcoin. This thing got to 98,000 on Friday. It is at 106.2 up $4,480 on the day. You got a nice two uh you have two green candlesticks on two assets that is, you know, realistically since October have just not been doing that well. And that means Coinbase, Micro Strategy, obviously BMR, uh those assets should benefit at 8 p.m. when the market opens. So, it's not too bad. It's not too bad. Again, this market continues to show how resilient it is. There's a lot of different macro stats we got to talk talk about. And uh once the overnight markets open in 11 minutes, we'll go through some of those macro stats. Some of them are concerning, some of them are more bullish than bearish. Nonetheless, I think you want this Santa Claus rally or at least the market wants to have the Santa Claus rally. And in order to get this rally, we're going to need a big move. And uh the shutdown is at least going to help start that, which would be very nice to see. So yeah, Tom Lee can quit his job at McDonald's. I mean, we were all getting ready for McDonald's pretty soon. Pretty soon, all of us were getting to that point. I mean, Friday at 1 PM, it it felt very likely that a decent chunk of us would have to uh to go there, but we might be saved. We might be saved by the shutdown. I think the craziest thing that happened last Friday was obviously markets were red and it was annoying and it was an it was a red week. So, a lot of us, you know, expected markets probably to be red on Friday, but then it got really red and and it got red to the point where it was like, okay, what is going on? Like, seriously, what's happening right here? What's the headline? Like, what is the market so upset about? And no one really knew. You could point to a variety of different things, but you couldn't pinpoint the market going down as bad as it was at 1 p.m. on one specific thing. And then by 240, we almost had an entire Vshape. I tweeted this picture at 3:05, and this is when the market was getting ready to Vshape. actually ended at 672 on the S&P 500. Sofi got to 25. Pounder got to 169. I mean, you had a lot of different things that got hit. And this was based on the Democrats potentially are ready to negotiate for a reopening headline and and then it became apparent, oh, all of this is because of the shutdown. I mean, that's at least what it felt like from the price action. And today, we'll see when the overnight markets open if that continues. But, uh, that was the reason. And I guess it wasn't really labor market or Trump saying whatever he was saying last week in a variety of different tweets. Uh he did have some tweets over the weekend about a 50-year mortgage that we'll talk about. But um it seems like the shutdown was the sort of core catalyst for why we had this much pain and maybe that shutdown is going to end. So yes, it's back to telling the boss to f off tomorrow morning. Exactly. I mean, look, at some point you get another 2% down. Trump might not have wanted the market to dip. Over the weekend, he was tweeting a bunch of different things. Obviously, he was probably annoyed that the markets were selling off. And this deal, whatever it ends up turning into, which is not going to be a perfect deal for either side, but it's at least going to extend the government to be open for the next two months. That's what we need. And it looks like that's what we're going to get uh in the next nine minutes when this opens up. Also, there's still um they're still in session, right? So, while we're doing the show, we should probably get a vote, I would imagine, like probably in the next 30 minutes max, maybe in the next hour. And once we get that vote, we'll officially know if the markets are reopening. That's what you got. That is what you got. And it's very, very exciting to see. Republicans and uh and enough Sen Democrats have reached a deal to end the government shutdown after 40 days. A source familiar tells Fox News. Okay, so you have Politico, Fox, Bloomberg, a ton of different people saying it's going to come through. And yeah, I guess in the next couple of either minutes, maybe couple of hours, but we should know pretty damn soon what this looks like. Bitcoin's already acting like the deal is done. Bitcoin right there back above 106. Again, this is really just going to be a question of how much the market thinks this um deal is good enough to withstand potentially going into a Santa Claus rally. And then, you know, then we have to see how much the dip buyers come through. So, we got a lot of macro stats to talk about after the overnight markets open and we'll get deeper into kind of what's to expect going into the month of November. But, if the core argument has been this year to buy the dip, if you've continued to buy the dip, I mean, so far it has indeed been rewarded. And if the shutdown was the lynch pin for why the buying the dip wouldn't be rewarded, well, if the shutdown reverses, then maybe buying the dip is going to be rewarded. and we're gonna see when that plays out. Um, yes, we'll finally get some economic data. This is the other thing. Like, we will finally get to know what the hell is going on in the economy. I mean, no one like besides us honestly cares about the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Like, your friends and family probably don't even know what the BLS stands for because, you know, they don't care about like jobless claims, but for those of us that are tracking the markets, uh, yeah, it really matters. And in order to continue to track the markets on a day-to-day, we need that data. And it looks like we'll be getting that data. Now, before we open the markets in about seven minutes, one other headline I want to talk about real quick and then we'll get into all the deeper stuff we've got going on is Nvidia. So, this just came out 30 minutes ago. Pretty damn bullish for Nvidia after a week of some pretty ugly headlines from OpenAI and Nvidia. Nvidia orders 50% more wafers from TSMC amid Blackwell demand. Nvidia has asked TSMC to boost the 3 nanometer wafer output for black hole by up to 50% pushing capacity from roughly a 100,000 to 110,000 a month to 160,000 according to local reports. That's an extra 35,000 wafers monthly tied to Blackwell chips. Jensen Wong said demand is strengthening month by month and that all three HBM suppliers have already scaled capacity to support the ramp. That also explains why Micron has been hitting all-time highs. But if this news is true, which some of the local reporting in Taiwan seems to suggest that it is true, I know last week the main headline that um was annoying to the markets was this whole OpenAI wants to get a federal backs stop guarantee and then the Jensen said China's going to beat us. And you know, those were annoying headlines and they kind of muddied a lot of the markets. But at its core, are those headlines that break away from the AI trade? Probably not. I mean, if anything, they're headlines that reinforce how much capex is going to be spent. So from that perspective, bullish even without China for Nvidia to be ordering 50% more wafers from TM TSMC. Remember, we can't sell any of those wafers or any of those black wall chips to China. And Trump made that pretty clear uh last week that, you know, they're likely not even going to give you the downscale version of the Nvidia chips to China. Same thing with AMD. The fact that there's still that much demand means that domestically and internationally outside of China, Nvidia should be doing okay. And you know, Nvidia ended the day on Friday at 190. Like for all the pain that we had to go through, Hood ended at 13175 after going to 120. Pounder went to 169, got back up to 180. And then Nvidia fell all the way to 178, ended up gapping up back to 190 again. S&P 500 at 672. So there is a lot of room for some of these names to make up. AMD obviously fell from 260 to 235. Would be nice to get that back around 240, 250. Google, you know, went from 290 to 280. It would be nice to get that to 285. Microsoft fell below 500, but still was very nice to see a bit of a rebound. Microsoft right there 49786 as well. BMR obviously got hit pretty bad right there. It's at 4071. Again, it was up 9% on Friday after falling to 3579. I don't know where it's going to open up at. My best guess is somewhere around 43 to 45. I don't know if there's enough juice to necessarily get it above that. We're going to get an update tomorrow morning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern on how much ETH Tom Lee bought. Some estimates say around 300 million. We'll see tomorrow uh how much of the dip that they bought, but you should get Bit Vine hopefully back into those mid-40s, which would be bullish. See, Bur just tweeted on Pounder. Oh boy. All right, four minutes before the overnight markets open. Let's see what did Bur say. We know that this position is going to be very important for him. Wow, he put out a lot. Okay, Bur, what does he say? Doesn't surprise me one bit that Alex Karp and his ontology Palunteer cannot crack a simple 13F, a fundamental principle of any rigorous ontological epistemological model, whether philosophical or in data science, is recognizing when your information set is insufficient for valid conclusions. Okay, I don't know what the hell he's talking about. The only nuance that Bur could be making right here is what we talked about when the uh the position was disclosed, which is that he might not be short Palunteer. He might just have a ton of puts on Palunteer, which is different, right? Because if you're shorting something, you can have infinite losses. If you have puts on something, the most you can lose is the uh overall premium that you paid for the puts. Um, so when he's saying I'm surprised that Palunteer cannot crack a simple 13F, the the immediate gut reaction I get from this is that he's saying Palunteer doesn't realize that he's not actually short the the company, which is fine, but if you still have a massive put position, you're still betting against it. Now, if he's trying to imply that he doesn't have a put position and he's not short, well, that's very confusing to me because why would you disclose your 13F early, you know, and tweet all the things that he's been tweeting about AI bubble, yada yada. I mean, obviously, you put two and two together, you think, okay, the guy's making a bearish bet on pounder and Nvidia. So, unless he's just toying with people and he's completely out of the puts, which we're not going to find out for another 45 days. By the way, all the 13Fs we will get by Friday. So, we will know if Howard Marks added to Grab. We will know what Ray Dalio has been doing. We will know learn what Bill Aman's been doing with Google and Nike and all that stuff. So, we're gonna get a lot of that data. Honestly, we might get some of that data Wednesday, Thursday before Friday. So, we'll find out if Birkshshire has been buying more UNH, etc. So, we'll find out all that stuff this week. But, this is a very weird argument by Bur. I mean, if he's saying that Palunteer doesn't understand a 13F, his 13F, from my understanding, had a notional value of 950 million of puts on Palunteer, 187 million of puts on Nvidia. He might be out of the position. That's fine. But saying that pounder can't crack a 13F and then you know implying he's out of the position. Well, how the hell will pounder know? No one can know. It is illegal for anyone to know except him because it it legally doesn't have to be disclosed within the next 45 days. So, no one freaking knows unless he's saying he's actually h he has puts on it, not short, and Karp is going off of him on being short pounder, but he's trying to tell the world that he's not short. It's like, okay, well, technically, sure, you're not short, but you still, if you still have a bearish bet, I think all of Karp's comments would relatively be the same, right? There wouldn't be that much nuance in terms of difference. So, not sure exactly what Bur is implying there, but we're going to find out and see this week kind of how this plays out. All right, 30 seconds, folks. Let's see if we can get the green, if it can come back. Obviously, Friday was a bit rough. We had a nice little recovery towards the end of the day. probably made everybody's weekends better. If the shutdown was the reason and now the shutdown is basically done, then it looks like we should be able to get a relatively green market open and we're going to see what we get in the overnight markets. All right, folks. Here we go. 5 seconds. Let's see what we've got. Thank you everybody for being here. The overnight market. And here we go. Robin Hood 133 on the open that's up 5% 134. Palanteer 181 that's up 2% on the open. Tessy's up 1% 435 from 429. Nvidia is 19180 up a little bit. S&P obviously up half a percent 674. AMD 237 that's up three bucks. SoFi 2877. That's up about a$150 on SoFi. Legend is being uh weird with the charts not showing everything. Okay, there's too much demand on Legend. Let's go back to Weeble. I had to do this multiple times last week. Would not surprise me if I have to do that this week as well. But Legend is being a little tough handling all the uh demand coming in. Palunteer, that's up 2.3%. Nvidia, that's up 2%. Broadcom that's up 1%. Nebius, wow, Nebia's up 7%. 118. Cipher, that's up 2%. IN is up 7%. Bit mine is up. Okay, hold on. Bit mine doesn't show on Weeble. Let me go on my phone and see what I've got. Uh, Robnut's being weird on my phone. Not showing it on my phone either. Okay, I can't get the BitMine price. Some of you guys are saying 44. It's not showing it on Weeble. Do I have it on my phone now? 4453. Okay, cool. 44 53. Bit mine's up 10%. Bit mine is up 10 11%. $4.55. Bit mine is green. Oaklo's up 3%. DWA's up 2%. Zeta is up 1%. Oracle's up 1%. AS is up 2%. Archer is up 2%. AMD is up 2%. Rocket Lab up 2.4. Grabs up about a third of a percent. TSM's up 1.83%. Job's up 1.6. Where is Nvidia? Nvidia's at 19230. 19230. Bit mine 44.83. Bit mine's making a pretty nice move right here. If you bought the dip anywhere below 40, you are probably happy as that one continues to go green. Meta, that's up 1%. Look, I think the biggest issue with Meta, and we talked about it a lot last week, is the fear of no ROI from their like capex spend. Even with those fears, I mean, it is cheap when you look at the numbers. So, if you're buying Meta right here, I can't blame you. Uh maybe you want to give it some time before you really heavily DCA. But look, when you go through the numbers, Meta is freaking cheap. It's hard to deny it's cheap. It's just you got to look past the concerns on if there's going to be a meaningful return on capex. Bitcoin right there 106.4. That's green or uh Bitcoin right there 106.4. Where is MSTR? That should be up at least four or five%. MSTR up 4%. 251 on Micro Strategy. That is green as well. BMR just hit 45. Amazon, are we green? Amazon, are we back to 247? We are at 24631. Amazon is green. Nebas big green candle 7%. How about Coree? Coreweave is up 5%. 10894. Robinet up 3% 13475. Amcor is up 2.1% 3550. Google that's up 1%. DraftKings is actually down a little bit. Regetti's up 5% overnight. Affirm is up 2%. Apples up 2%. US is up 2%. I mean, you got a lot of stuff that's going green. Galaxy's up 7%. Oscar's down. Well, Oscar, this ACA subsidy is not going to be extended. Uh, well, we don't know if it's going to be extended until December. So, that's why that stock's down 7%. I mean, that's reasonable until it gets I mean, this is this is the bet with Oscar, right? If those ACA subsidies don't get extended, the perception is that there's going to be some some issues. Now, if you know it deeply, there are a lot of bulls that say the ACA subsidies are not the biggest concern. I don't know that much about it, which is why I've never been able to invest. But uh if the Democrats going to be voting on that in December, the stock might be flat till then. Oscar right there down about 6%. How about UNH? UNH is also down 3%. So all the healthcare stocks taking a bit of a beating right here based on the lack of negotiations by the Republicans. Molina Healthcare, that's down 4% as well. Wow. All the healthcare names getting hit. Again, the the the thing about this Politico report that came out is that all it's doing is funding a couple of different parts of the government to make sure we can reopen. It's not really solving the issue around immigrants, illegal immigrants getting healthcare, which is, you know, kind of been the core reason we've been shut down for 40 days. It's just kicking the can down the road. So, for a lot of the stocks that are affected by that sector, you're just going to have to wait longer and the market's going to have to decide what they want to do in the meantime. SMCI, that's up 3%. Iron, that's up 7.4. What about HIMS? Hims is up 3% as well. Hims is up 3% as well as that continues to go green. Lily and uh Novo had a announcement last week. Lily right there up a little bit right here. Uh Lily got the better end of that announcement just in terms of stock price last week for the Ompic being covered under the Medicare for the United States. Novo right here down about 1%. So those stocks green. Tech is the one that's leading. Amazon's up 1%. Nvidia's up 2.7 19325 on Nvidia. Grabs at 560 I think. Grab relatively flat. Uh Grab right here. I got to check on Legend because it grabbed. Yeah, 558. Relatively flat for Grab Nvidia right there. 19320. Let's go back to Legend. I think you can see these now. And there you go. Those are some of the moves. Um, okay. Let's see if we can get an update right here from what's going on in the Senate. They should be doing their vote, I think, right now. Let's see. Again, the market's obviously acting like the vote is going to be bullish. Um, okay. No official confirmation that the that the that the shutdown bill has been signed, but multiple news outlets reporting that it is officially happening and the vote will be happening pretty soon. Well, based on what we're looking at,
>> shut down much longer becoming will become increasingly difficult for airlines to deliver on their promises to their customers. The circumstances we are in cannot continue. We must reopen the government. I urge my colleagues to pass a clean, continuing resolution to reopen government. I'm committed to working with my colleagues, my colleagues to address the concerns they've have and any issues brought forth by the shutdown. We must return to regular order, advance a clean CR and these three appropriation bills, and then consider further appropriations and these issues so that many of that many of us care so deeply about. All right, they're going to start voting. We should know in about an hour, folks. We should know in about an hour. There you go. Looks like that's what the market wanted. Looks like that's what the market wanted. Here's the question I'm going to put in the chat for everybody. Curious what people think. um red or green tomorrow? Red or green? And the the sort of underlying question I'm asking is bear trap or bull trap. What do we think? Do we think the market holds on to the government shutdown news? Is that enough of a catalyst? Or do we get whipsaw again tomorrow? We had a bunch of different pieces of news last week that were super bullish, then we just got whips out to the downside. I mean based on this price action and price action can be very deceiving. It does feel like this is what the market wanted again last week was just so weird because there were so many reasons you can imagine the market was red but then on Friday the shutdown ended up being the reason why we reversed. So I I have to assume the shutdown reversing is the reason why we we Vshape up. Uh and if that's the case hopefully we continue green. The agreement lasts until January 30th. Until January 30th. Couple of you guys saying bull trap. You know, I I can't dismiss that it could be a bull trap because there are some things that we got in terms of headlines last week that weren't bullish. But then again, it's hard for me to like latch on to those arguments because we're getting towards the end of the year. The end of the year tends to be bullish. We have earnings growth that has still been phenomenal. You have Nvidia earnings coming up and then you got rate cuts. I mean, if all the things that we heard last week that were bearish, particularly around the labor market, uh, were as bad as they were, then I would imagine rate cut probabilities go higher. But then you look at the future probabilities and we're below 70% at 66.8. I don't know how December meeting is anywhere below 90%. To be honest, I mean, I don't think inflation is kind of the core reason the Fed cares about. But if we don't get that rate cut, yes, things can get ugly. If we do, I think we'll be okay. But we're going to have to see. I do think tomorrow there's going to be some people taking profits just because they are getting tired of the back and forth and they might just want to say, you know what, I'm out. This is it. I'm done for the year. I'm taking my profits. I don't care if I have to pay taxes on it. But I don't want to wait until the end of December and then there's some announcement that comes up and it messes up everything. I could definitely see that happening tomorrow. So, that's one thing that I think we all have to pay attention to. But, nonetheless, market seems to like the shutdown news. S&P 500, right? They're up half a percent, 674. We fell all the way to 661 last week on Friday. All the way to 661. All right, folks. That's what we got. Let's get into a bunch of this other macro news and keep going from there. Yes, there, you know, obviously there will be another shutdown in January if we don't figure out what to do till then, but at least people will be able to get paid and get back pay in terms of critical federal workers. At least airports will be able to be open. I mean, JFK, you had a bunch of different airports that had to let go of 10% of their flights. This is stuff you just don't want to see. Oscar right there down 8%. UNH down 2.6 right here. So, we're going to have to see. CNC is down 4% as well. Let me pull up the healthcare watch list. Yeah, everything's red except Clover, HIMS, and Teldoc. CVS is down, Human is down, Molina's down, CNC, Elephants, Oscar, UNH, all of those. I'm getting here right now. You said something last week like Trump can't stand a short bare market without intervening. Yes, I think Trump's personality is not meant for bearish headlines every single day because then he gets asked questions about why is the economy not doing well and he can't brag about the economy doing well. So, I do think it is he's going to try whatever he can try to kind of make sure that the market stay up, but it depends. It really does depend. Do we get these rate cuts? And uh do does the market also interpret the shutdown ending as bullish even if it's only a two-month lag on reopening the government. Having said that, let's get into a bunch of different headlines. So, we got a lot of stuff to talk about. I think we'll start off with this first. I don't know how many people saw it, um but Trump tweeted this in the morning. great American presidents. President Roosevelt created the 30-year mortgage. Donald Trump potentially creating a 50year mortgage. I have not gone super deep into the math around this. I watched the video by Graham Stefen today. It's a great video. I would recommend people watching it. He is in real estate. He's been in real estate for like the past 10 years. And so, I just saw him do some quick numbers on it. And based on the math that he laid out, it would reduce your cost of a house by 10% on the monthly payment. So his example used it went from like instead of paying 3,000 a month on your mortgage, you would pay 2,600 if you add those extra 20 years. Paying 10% less on a mortgage for almost doubling the amount of time that you're stuck in that mortgage. Again, I'm not a real estate expert. I don't know that much about real estate, but that to me doesn't seem like the best deal. A 10% discount per month for 20 extra years of holding on to to a mortgage. At that point, someone said it yesterday and it it it kind of made sense. It's almost like you're renting your house from the bank at that point. That's what you're doing. Like you're not really getting a chance to build up equity. So I think the administration or at least Trump tweeted that the reason they're doing it is because they're seeing that rates are not really coming down or at least mortgage rates are not coming down. And maybe they're afraid that PAL doesn't lower in in December, which that would not be the best for equities either. Uh but eventually rates will come down as they get a dub into office even if it takes until May of 2026. So, the question then becomes, you know, how long will it take for mortgage rates to come down? And even PY is super on board with this 50-year idea. And again, just looking at some very basic numbers, it doesn't seem to make a lot of sense to me, and I'm not the biggest real estate expert, so so I I I would want to take some more time to go deeper into it, but uh I don't know if a 50-year is going to be what solves most of our issues. Then on top of that, you had Trump continue to tweet today and uh well, he flirted with this idea of a dividend of at least $2,000 a person, not including highincome people, will be paid to everyone. People that are against tariffs are fools. We are now the richest, most respected country in the world with almost no inflation at a record stock market price. 401ks are the highest ever. We are taking in trillions of dollars and will soon begin paying down our enormous $37 trillion debt. Record investment in the USA. plants and factories going up all over the place. A dividend of at least 2,000 a person will be paid to everyone. Now, I don't know if Donnie T is actually talking about $2,000 a person, if he's legit legit saying that we're going back to COVID sty days where people get a check in the mail. Uh I think that's how some people have interpreted it. That might not necessarily be the most accurate from my understanding. And Bend kind of clarified this uh earlier today and we'll watch a video of that. It's more so the dividend being paid through like reduced taxes and all these other different things that the Trump administration is doing that's like, you know, bullish for you having more money to spend. But it's not necessarily a $2,000 check. Alth although the way that he says it, $2,000 a person of a dividend. Now, he doesn't say a stimulus check. says a dividend, which could be interpreted in a variety of different ways. Uh might it might not actually be a literal $2,000. If he were to give $2,000, let's assume that goes to about 200 million people. Again, you're going to exclude a 100 million people in the country. There's 350 million people. Uh that's about $400 billion. Do we have the money to pay $400 billion? I don't think so. The tariffs in the best case only bring in about 350 billion. So, I don't think we're going to have the money to pay for it, which is why I don't actually think that we're doing this. But if that does happen, I mean, we're going back to the moon. And this time, I think a lot of people realize, okay, so we're going to create a bubble. We we definitely know it's a bubble if we're printing $400 billion. So, we just got to time the bubble. I don't think he's literally giving $2,000 to everybody. But if he were, I think all of us would understand this is absolutely going to turn into a bubble and eventually we just have to figure out how to time it. But nonetheless, that could play out. What is high income? Well, what was it during COVID? During COVID, you had to make less than less than like a hundred. Was it 85 grand? How much income did you need to make during COVID for a STEMI? I think it was 85 grand. Uh, you had you couldn't make more than 85 grand. No, 75. Okay. So, if you made 75 If you made less than 75 as a single person, you got the check. If you made less than 150 as a couple, you got the check. So, uh, I I would imagine, you know, they would keep probably the same guidelines this time. If they were to do this, I can't even believe we're talking about $2,000 dividend. I I don't think it's going to happen, but if it were to happen, you probably have something like that. So, yeah, if you make more than 75 as a single person, you do not clarify for that 2,000. And again, if you print that much money, that money is likely coming into the I mean, that would be very bullish for Hood and Coinbase and just crypto assets, etc. It's just we would know, okay, we are getting to a point where things are a bit more inflationary. Here's what Bent said when he was asked about this $2,000 dividend.
>> You know, it could the $2,000 dividend could come in lots of forms in lots of ways, George. Um, you know, it could be just the the tax decreases that we are seeing on the president's agenda. You know, no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, deductibility of auto loans. So, you know, those are substantial deductions that, you know, are being financed in the tax bill. So again, I don't think it's going to be a legit, you know, $2,000, but obviously that's what it sounded like, what Trump was saying. And so, and my kind of analysis on this was um based on what I read over the weekend. Yeah. As Cactus says, it's it's almost like he's saying, you already have it. Based on what I read over the weekend, and and again, this is just what I'm reading. I could be completely I mean the sources could be wrong, but based on the people that are listening to the Supreme Court case, it's not looking well for Trump, guys. It's really not. Again, I don't know how it's going to play out. I don't know what the vote's going to come down to, but you got a lot of people saying Trump is losing the Supreme Court case. He's not going to win. And that goes against what I've been thinking. I've been thinking the Supreme Court, no way in hell they're going to overturn this because of just like, dude, we we tariffed so many countries. We went through all this [ __ ] for a year. Like if you're a Supreme Court justice, I know you have to, you know, look at the Constitution, but you're also thinking the real world implication of reversible this [ __ ] would just be massive. Based on the reports I've been reading, it's not looking good for Trump. And and and and then when you think about it, why is he tweeting about $2,000 dividends? Well, he might be trying to get public opinion on his side by trying to get the American people to believe the only reason that they're able to get this quote unquote dividend of 2,000, whether it's a check or whether you, you know, you get it in your tax deductions or whatever, is because of the tariffs that the American public turns against the Supreme Court decision. And then when Trump tries to use a loophole, which the administration has already come out and said there's like I forgot the name of the section, but there's section two something inside of the executive orders that they're looking at to be able to still with hold up this the tariffs even if the Supreme Court strikes it down. He wants the American public to be on his side. And I don't know. I don't know what the American public is going to think. I think we need a lot more data to see how that plays out. Ethereum right there 3643 tried to break above 3650. Got a little bit above it right back below 3640. section 351. Yeah, it's one of those sections I was reading about that that Trump says 90% of the tariffs he'll still be able to hold up. But if he loses that Supreme Court decision, he's going to have to really um convince people that the tariffs are still good. And I don't know how many people realistically care about the tariffs in the country. I think if more people think it's created a higher cost of living, which is definitely what the De Democrats are going for. I mean, this is why I think the Democrats had a sweep on the elections last week is because they kept talking about affordability. And at the end of the day, Democrats or Republicans, whenever I post clips of Trump saying that grocery prices are going down, it's almost 99% of the comments are just like, he's wrong. They're not going down. Grocery prices are going up. Electricity is going up. You know, the data centers are definitely making electricity prices go up. Gas prices are not really coming down. Even though if you look at the national averages, they are starting to come down. So, I think affordability might be the core topic around the 2026 midterms. And that's why Trump is putting out these arguments about um about dividend checks for for tariffs. So, we're gonna have to see. He'll fire the Supreme Court. Well, you can't fire the Supreme Court. And so, that's the thing. That's why that's why he's been tweeting so much about it's a really big deal, dude. If he loses this, the thing is, forget like having to repay the tariffs, forget having to repay the revenue, forget having to like cancel the deals with all these other countries, it would mean the first year of the administration really didn't get that much done outside of the big beautiful bill. And this is just being objective about it, right? If every single tariff deal that we've gotten with South Korea, Japan, the EU, etc., If all that's reversed, which again, I don't think that'll be the case, even if Trump loses the Supreme Court decision. But if it is reversed, I mean, everything he did over the past nine months, if that stuff's done, it's just going to be embarrassing. It's not really going to be the best thing to see. Now, again, I don't think that's going to be the result of it. I think that's a bit too extreme. But I think he's trying to hedge his bets, and that's why he's putting out these ideas of like $2,000 dividends, and that's what the administration is saying as well. Let's go to Bent. He said a bunch of different things this morning talking about tariffs and uh then we'll keep going from there. But here's what he said this morning around what's going on with the shutdown and more with the tariffs.
>> There's of course the the human cost and we're going to have the the busiest travel day of the year the day after Thanksgiving and you know Americans should look to five Democratic senators to come across an aisle to open that. But on the other side there's also cargo is being slowed down. So, you know, we could end up with uh shortages whether it's in our supply chains, whether it's for the holidays. So, you know, cargo and people are both being slowed down here and that's for safety sake, George.
>> President continues to post about ending the filibuster. Is that is that the best way to end the shutdown right now? Is that what the administration's position is?
>> Uh, no. George, the best the best way to do it. And look, you were involved in a lot of these in the '9s and you know, you you basically called the Republicans terrorist and you know, you said that it is not the responsible party that keeps the government closed. And so what we need is five brave moderate Democratic senators to cross the aisle because right now it is 52-3 52-3. Five Democrats can cross the aisle and reopen the government. That's the best way to do it, George.
>> And again, it looks like this vote is taking place. And if this vote does go in the right direction, then uh the shutdown should be over. Let's get to the part where Bent specifically talks about tariffs. Let's just pull this up right here and we will take a look at this. Okay, so here is this specific part,
>> Affordable Care Act, the Inflation Reduction Act, and we end up with just the opposite. You know, the the Affordable Care Act uh has become unaffordable, and the Inflation Reduction Act set off the greatest inflation in 50 years.
>> Well, I'm a little confused because the president been posting about that overnight and into this morning. But you're not proposing that to the Senate right now. Uh we're not proposing it to the Senate right now. No.
>> Then why is the president posting about it?
>> Uh George, uh you the president's posting about it, but again, we have got to get the government reopened before you know we do this. We are not going to negotiate uh with the Democrats until they reopen the government. It's very simple. Reopen the government, then we can have a discussion.
>> Let's talk about affordability and inflation. And that was one of the key concerns that voters said was on their minds as they were voting this Tuesday. It appeared to be the driving force in the elections. But President Trump is still insisting that prices are way down. Even though last month's report showed inflation stuck at about 3%. Are Americans worried about inflation?
>> Chuck Schumer Chuck Schumer just voted no. We're waiting for the other Democrats who say yes. The vote is happening live right now. We should be getting answers within 10 minutes, but Chuck Schumer just voted no again. We need about 10 Democrats to vote yes for the shutdown to be over.
>> Uh well, George, I I can tell you the what we're not going to do is what happened the under the Biden administration where, you know, the administration and the media ga gas lit everyone and said, "Oh, you know, uh there's a vibe session. You don't understand how good you had had it." And what happened then was we had the worst inflation 40 or 50 years. you know 22 23% but the basket of goods and services for working Americans was up more than 30%. And what we're seeing is we had to stop the increase first. Now we are starting to see prices level off, come down. You know, GA gasoline is down, interest rates are down, so mortgages are down. And I think we are making substantial progress on that. And I think over the coming months in the next year, uh prices are going to come down.
>> The president says though, he just had posted this morning that there's almost no inflation. The consumer price index is higher than it was in the beginning of the year. Electric electricity rates are rising. So are prices for coffee, beef, vegetables, televisions. And it's not just me. It's not just economists are saying that. Your own Republican members of Congress are saying that, including Marjorie Taylor Green. Let's look.
>> I go to the grocery store myself. Grocery prices remain high. Energy prices are high. My electricity bills are higher here.
>> What MTG is saying right here is also what I think is pissing off Trump. there are highlevel Republican officials making the argument that affordability is not going in the right direction and obviously given Trump's in office he's the one who's getting the blame for that. So you've got a variety of these different narratives that are playing out back and forth and that's also why I think Trump tweeted today about this $2,000 dividend or this 50-year mortgage as well
>> in Washington DC at my apartment and they're also higher at my house in Rome, Georgia. Um higher than they were a year ago. Uh so so affordability is a problem.
>> How do you respond to Congressman Green?
>> Well, uh George, what I what I would respond to is electricity prices are a state problem. And you know, I I was very interested to see in the earlier clip where the governor the governor elect of New Jersey said, "Well, I'm going to bring down energy prices." Well, it was her predecessor, uh Phil Phil Murphy, who took them up. So, you know, look, there are things that the federal government can control. uh local electricicity prices are not one of them but you know energy prices gasoline prices are way down and you know we we are doing what we can every day. I think we are on a very good path to bringing prices down.
>> So this is I think going to be kind of the core topic that the administration tries to focus on right here. We are still pretty green in the overnight markets folks. Bitcoin is losing 1065 now just at 106.1. Ethereum right there just below 3650. Um but I think that was one of the main headlines over the weekend. This idea around affordability, how much people actually care about it and if it's going in the right direction or not going in the right direction. Again, we should be getting the Senate vote very soon and then we're going to see uh who ends up voting in the positive for the shutdown to be over. But I think it's kind of baked into the futures right here. I you have a relatively green futures. Robin had up 3%. Pounder up 3%. Tesla up 2.4. Tesla did uh approved the package yesterday or not yesterday on Thursday for Elon Musk $1 trillion. Um and that was at like 450. So that's at 439 fell all the way to 425. So you are seeing a bit of a move back up to the 440s. And then Nvidia right here 19345. SoFi right there at 29. SoFi went all the way down to 25 last week. All of this seems to be hinging on the shutdown. and we will find out pretty soon. Let's get back to that footage on the shutdown, see if they're making any progress there, and then we'll get into some of the other macro stats we have
>> on the motion to proceed to HR5371.
>> The questions on the motion. All in favor say I.
>> I.
>> Opposed? Same sign.
>> The eyes appear to have it. The eyes do have it. The motion's agreed to. The clerk will report the motion to invoke closure.
>> Closure motion. We the undersigned senators in accordance with the provisions of rule 22 of the standing rules of the Senate do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the motion to proceed to calendar 168 HR5371 and act making continuing appropriations and extensions for fiscal year 2026 and for other purposes.
>> Under the previous order, the mandatory quorum call under rule 22 has been waved. The question is, is it the sense of the Senate that debate on the motion to proceed to HR5371, an act making continuing appropriations and extensions for fiscal year 2026 and for other purposes, shall be brought to a close upon consideration, reconsideration. All right. So, it looks like they're voting right now to even have the vote in the first place, which means it's going to take some time before we officially get the answers. But yes, based on all the sources that we've seen over the past couple hours, it really does feel like uh there will be enough votes to get this shutdown done. And obviously, that's what the futures are signaling as well. But it might take another hour for them to fully confirm it. Market might dip if it fails again 100%. I think this futures action is going to go downhill if it isn't approved. I would hope that doesn't happen, but we're going to find out. We're going to find out in the next hour. All right, let's get into some more headlines. So, that's all the stuff we have on the shutdown. That was Bent this morning. Um, you know, pretty much making the same argument about what he's trying to do in regards to the shutdown or at least what the Republican part is looking for. And hopefully we'll get a little bit more analysis once this is officially fixed. AI. Let's talk about AI. So, let's get into some debt analysis. I mean, this is one of the other big headlines last week that really got the market pissed off. Take a look at this. Borrowing to fund AI data center spending exploded in September and so far in October. Meta 30 billion of bonds. Oracle 18 billion, 75 billion in total. Then you had Google with around three billion. And you've got more that is on the way. Microsoft as well getting into the action. So, as you can see, the debt funding, particularly around AI data centers, has been a thing since 2015. It's just not ramped up the way it's ramped up that you're seeing on this chat or on this chart. And I know as a result, we're going to be taking on more debt to be able to fund what we're doing in regards to data centers. There was a great video by The Plain Bagel this weekend as well that kind of went deeper into like the circular financing. And you know when you break it down at the end of the day it obviously feels very circular just looking at it from a baseline level. The thing that gets rid of the circularity is hey are these companies going to be able to produce enough revenue to get the revenue to be able to meaningfully make a difference in the overall amount of spending that these companies are doing? And you know if you listen to what the open AAI CFO said which I listened to her entire 40-minute speech with the Wall Street Journal or her like keynote. This is the one where she messed up and said like the government backloan thing and like that like really caused a lot of issues. But she was point blank asked about this circular financing and here is what she had to say. She kind of rejected the uh the entire premise of it in the in the first place. So let's take a listen to what she had to say here.
>> So you got the OpenAI CFO saying, "Hey, this whole circular thing that you guys are thinking, you know, we do this and then they do that and the only reason they can do that is because we do this with them." That's not the case. And the reason that's not the case is because we have a lot of growth. We have a lot of ROI from the actual money that we're spending, even if we're not profitable yet. And at its core, this is eventually going to turn into a very large business. Here's the part where she talks about their enterprise business, uh, which she says is growing 9x year-over-year, 900%, way faster than the consumer side of the business. And this is also why OpenAI is really optimistic to get to those couple hundred billions of dollars of revenue by 2030. Again, I will say this. I say this I feel like once a day. You don't have to love OpenAI, but they've got to win. They've got to win. If they don't win, I don't know if the other comp I mean, other another LLM could take their their spot. David Sax is right about that. The problem is the other LLM companies haven't pledged 1.4 trillion of spending, which is the reason AMD went from a $300 billion market cap to a $400 billion market cap. So, whatever stock you're invested in, a lot of us are in Oracle, AMD, Nvidia, etc. Not saying those stocks go to the gutter if the if opening eye doesn't win, but a lot of the reason their market cap went up is because of OpenAI spending. And so at its core, you would imagine that this business hopefully does. You kind of get the argument she's trying to make. The enterprise business is growing dramatically. And as that business continues to grow, there is going to be more adoption for OpenAI hopefully long term. Now again, look, if OpenAI fails, could Gemini, could Grock, could all these other companies kind of replace a lot of the work that they're doing? Of course, that's very possible. My only concern is that the level of deals between Nebius and Iran and Microsoft. Remember OpenAI is contracted to give Microsoft $250 billion. They work with GCP. They just contracted to give AWS 38 billion. Oracle 300 billion. AMD 100 billion. A lot of that stuff doesn't just get replaced overnight and you know, Gemini takes that over. Uh and if that does happen, that happens after significant declines in market cap for those companies when you know the manifestation of those deals don't take place. So that's why I think it's just really important for the overall sector to remain healthy for OpenAI to grow as fast as they're growing. And I think that interview at least gave you a better glimpse into kind of how they're thinking of the overall business opportunity. And she then went on to talk about these rev share agreements they're doing with other companies. For example, with healthcare companies and drug discovery companies, they're thinking of OpenAI doing the research and then potentially owning a piece of the drug if they end up discovering something new. So there's a lot of different ways I think OpenI is trying to figure out the business model in real time and they kind of have to because you know there's 1.4 trillion of spend that needs to take place. Uh we are still vating waiting for this vote to come through. I believe we need um we need about what 10 more votes or 18 more votes. You're having the vote. Is it happening live right now? Yes, happening live right now. And it looks like six more. Six more. Yes, six more. Okay. Six more Democrats. We get six more Democrats and then boom, we are we are officially reopened with this government. BMR making a nice little move. 4392 after hours. Again, everything pretty much green, which is nice to see. Officially getting that shutdown done will definitely help it. Rocket Lab got to 47 last week, now at 5474. That's up 6%. So, a lot of these names benefiting from the idea of the shutdown being done. Yes, the vote is finishing currently right now is live right now. Like currently right now. Yes, it is currently right now. Farzad, thanks for being here, man. Aid's greatest qualities ability to grind. Sunday night in the sky does not stop. Love you, bro. You're destined for greatness. Farzad, appreciate you, man. Thank you so much for being here and hope you are doing well, sir. Uh, Silly Chapman, thanks for the $10 chat. I admit you think some of the company layoffs are due to tariffs, due to high prices. Companies can't increase prices. Yeah, I think there's a variety of things going on with layoffs. And again, this was the number one reason why I think last week we had some issues. Take a look at this chart right here. Um, so if you look at this right here, US companies announced 153,000 job cuts in October, a 175% increase from a year ago. This was the highest number of layoffs for any October in over 20 years and the most for any single month in Q4 since 2008. This is, you know, I thought this was the reason. If I had to, you know, gun to my head, you got to pick one reason why the markets were down last week, I would say it's it's this layoff report. But then on Friday at 2 p.m., Democrats getting ready for a shutdown. That headline goes viral and then boom, we V-shaped. I mean, all of us, I think pretty much most of us ended green on Friday. Could you imagine ending green on Friday when you looked at the the worst of it at around 1 pm Eastern? By around 2:30, we were green. And so, um, it seemed like the shutdown was the big deal, not the layoff. I guess the layoff is interpreted as another reason for a rate cut, but the shutdown seems to be the biggest issue. And hopefully the shutdown ends up uh ends up getting solved tonight. Yeah, pound up 3%. Again, Michael Bur did tweet this thing like 20 minutes ago. Still don't get what the heck he's trying to say right here. Uh Karp kind of went off of on him last week though. So I don't know what he's trying to say. It does seem like he's still short or has puts on it, but this is ultimately what he's I guess trying to get across even though it doesn't really make a lot of sense to me given the way he's framing it. Four more votes. Four more votes for the Democrats. Um, this is what the live view looks like. They're just waiting on four more and then we should be done. 44 to 22. 44 to 22. Someone says, "I picked up 2,000 shares of BMR at 35 and sold out at 39." Well, look, you got a $4 move, which is 8,000 bucks on 2,000 shares. So, that's not too bad. It's just it feels like the ETH move, but you know, when the market was going down, ETH and Bitcoin were actually holding on, which is why it was weird why BMR was getting hit as bad. It's almost just like the algos were taking it down as the broader market was getting hit. But once you had a market reversal, BMR reversed violently because ETH never really took that much of a beating on Friday. I mean, the lowest it got to was like 3,300, which you would expect ETH was below 3,000 given how bad the S&P was going to get. ETH now right here at 3600. Imagine getting paid to sit around and say yes or no. Yeah. And look, they like they didn't even take a vote for the past 40 days. I mean, it really is ridiculous what has been happening with this shutdown. And I think at this point, people are just pissed off, especially if you have family that works for the federal government. If you're trying to travel, I mean, at this point, some people are just like, you know, enough is enough. It needs to get taken care of. And again, this is not really taking care of anything. We're gonna have to deal with this rodeo January 30th, but at least it's enough going into the holidays for people to not have to, you know, go without pay, which is the most important thing. Uh, back to AI again. I'll get an update once we have these four votes coming in. Here's Jeff Bezos, who was at an American business conference over the weekend once again making up the argument about data centers in space,
>> the expenses, etc. Why is space exploration so important to you? Well, for me there's a bunch of reasons for, you know, I but literally since I was a kid, literally a kid here in Miami, I have been thinking that ultimately if we want to keep growing our civilization and using more energy per person and so on and so on, we're eventually going to have to move all of our heavy industry off Earth. We and and and that will happen. I know it sounds a little fantastical. Maybe it sounds like science fiction to some degree, but it it will happen. I don't know how how soon it will happen. It's a job that I won't finish. Probably my children's children won't finish. You know, this is something that multiple generations will work on, but it will happen. And uh you I just mentioned one of the first steps there is that you know, we already put a lot of communications in space. We can start to build factories in space. We can start to build data centers in space. We will ultimately get the materials not even from earth but get the materials from the moon and near earth objects and asteroids. We have unlimited energy in space and unlimited material resources in space. And this planet is so beautiful and so unusual. This is the one that we're going to want to protect. There's no plan B. We have sp we have not yet we
>> you got Bezos going super bullish on space and again if you had to build a data center in space I would imagine you need a decent amount of help with launching that into space. That's where a rocket lab or a SpaceX would come in. But uh again the the this the argument last week or at least some of the analysis was that the AI trade might be over. When you hear someone like Bezos saying we need to use space to build data centers because there's not enough demand or not enough supply. When you hear Jensen saying we need to increase the wafer output by TSMC by 50% month overmonth which is what we talked about in the beginning of the show. It seems like even without China there is plenty of demand and that demand needs to be satisfied. Uh you got the vote happening live right here. What are we at guys? We're at like 4926 I think. 4926. We need 60. So we need 11 more votes.
>> M Rosen I.
>> That's 50. 50 27. Okay, we need 10 more. 10 more and the shutdown is done. Nancy Pelosi is retiring. Correct. She put out a video over the weekend that she's done. She's gone. Which is another reason people thought the market crashed because the best trader in the world is is done. But yeah, it looks like we should be getting this vote coming in soon and we should be done. If this is what the market wanted, this is what the market should be getting. The question is going to be, is this enough going into November or going into end of November. Now, Tom Lee did say last week that he thinks the first two weeks of November would be choppy and obviously it has been, you know, relatively choppy, but um if that choppiness continues to consolidate, then, you know, we might not get that move back up to alltime highs anytime soon. Some more macro stats. Take a look at this. Uh call options are absolutely going crazy. uh call option volume has surpassed put volume over the last month by the largest margin in history, which is kind of crazy because it means a ton of people are still betting on obviously the market going higher with these calls versus these puts. Uh we know that leveraged margin debt is at the highest of its levels. It's surpassing 2021, surpassing 2000. I think there's um 1.3 trillion roundabout is what we have in margin debt. And you saw it at Robin Hood's numbers. I mean the amount of margin they're giving out and they made 153 million in interest on margin which is just incredible. So you're seeing that margin be taken out and obviously you're seeing that in the options market. These are the worst performing stocks of the S&P 500 so far. Chipotle, Molina, Faxet, Dow, Alexandria Reality, Lululemon, Deckers, Trades, and Fiser. Fiser recently took it on the chin after their crappy earnings. Lulu, Deckers, and Chipotle seem more to deal with um with the consumer, which we've been talking about, and some issues that we're having with the consumer. And we got to see, you know, if there's enough arguments for the consumer continuing to be hit. Put ESP there. Yeah, I forgot ESB, dude. ESP got hit as well. ESP year to date, well, it's still up year to date because it IPOed at a very or it went it did this ETH Treasury thing at a very low price, like three bucks. Past month, it's down 29% though. So, that one got hit as well. I think we're at what 5030 or 51. We're at 51. Okay. Nine more votes. Nine more votes and we will have the government reopen. Yeah, exactly. Nine more votes that we need. It's so crazy, dude. So, so, so many of you guys internationally might much might must just be looking at this like you might not even care about the US government, but you're like, "Damn it, I invest in a lot of US stocks and I need your stupid government to be open so my stocks can go higher." Oh, they're trying to open it. They are trying to open it. How many Democrats voted yes, guys? How many Democrats is there? Cactus, you have that number? I think they're aiming for one, two, three, four, one, two, three, seven, right? Seven so far. Fetman's next. That'll give it eight. So if you get eight, then you got to get two more and then you're good to go. Yeah, a lot of you guys internationally that's how you feel. Well, it's the thing about investing in US stocks. You got to care about the US government, all the nuances of the US government, which is kind of crazy. Like for those that invest in multiple, like my uncle, he invests in India and the United States and like he has to keep up with Indian politics. But you just have to, right? There's no way you can invest in Indian companies and not know the headlines about what's going on. Managing one country is enough like like to try to manage. I mean, now that I've started investing in Southeast Asia with Grab, I've been, you know, keeping up more with them. But, you know, at the end of the day, there's not that many sort of tailwinds or headwinds in the region that you have to worry out too much, especially if you have a long-term thesis. But, if you're investing day-to-day in multiple companies in a country, you got to know about how that country operates. And it's, you know, it does take work to care about it. Oh, it's done. We got it. We got it. I think it's done. Let me pull up some coverage. I think we are done. or at least the votes are in enough to say it should be done. Let's pull this up right here and see.
>> Time and time again on this bill, she had raised concerns. She had told me repeatedly, "I am not going to hurt one group of people, meaning federal workers and others hurt by government shutdown to try to help another group of people such as the people who could lose their subsidies over Obamacare." She said, "Keep the government open, negotiate on these healthcare issues separately." that had been Katherine Cortez Mass's position. Jackie Rosen was in line with her party on the healthc care demands and wanted to get tied to this underlying bill, but she also recognized the impact that the shutdown was having back in her home state in Nevada on tourism and the like and the federal employees as well and ultimately voting yes. So, a big moment here. Seventh Democratic senators and we'll look to see Federman just now voted eight. I am told that he makes the eighth senator. So, we do have at least 60 Senate votes we expect here. This vote is still open. It's always possible someone could change their vote. Don't expect that to happen though. Expect there to be at least 60 vote. The supermajority to break a Democratic led filibuster move towards final passage as soon as tonight or potentially early this week. Jess,
>> that is big.
>> All right, few more votes, folks. Few more votes. Markets already Wow. S&P actually making some new highs right here. Look at that. 67515 on the S&P 500. You're getting an alltime, not an alltime high, but like an over market overnight markets high today. Uh Nvidia 19334. Grab just went up 2%. SoFi just below 29. Hoodie 13540. ETH breaking it hasn't broke 3650 yet. It's trying 3640. And then Bitcoin just above 106. just above 106. Yeah, Federman voting giving it the the eight that it needed for it to make sense from a numbers perspective is in. So now it's just a formality for those next few votes and boom, they get in because they had 53 Republicans already, right? So they only needed technically seven. And so now that Federman voted, you got eight. So yeah, it's in. I mean, like, it'll be officially announced any minute, but it is in. We should be having the shutdown officially be over until January. It's kind of crazy, dude. 40 days in a row we've had this shutdown, but nonetheless, here you are. Um, ETFs, 13 trillion are now under management in the United States. In 2020, this was 5 trillion. So you've seen more than a double in the past basically six years for ETFs. I mean more and more money continues to go into assets where people want to get a bit of a higher yield than a risk-free rate of return. Now last week we did have 116 billion enter money market funds. So you did have a lot more money get a bit scared last week as it wanted to kind of take a breather and not deal with the risk of the markets but 13 trillion is still incredible that entered uh into the sidelines. Coinbase tweeted something I thought that was also interesting as well. Uh they said, "October sell-off wasn't the end of the cycle. It may have been the reset and needed. Excess leverage is flush. Fundamentals remain intact and institutional players are quietly rotating back in. Smart money is clustering around EVM chains, real world assets, and yield protocols pointing to selective re-risking, not retreat. Key takeaways: leverage is cleaner, but liquidity gaps remain. Capitals rotating, not entering. Macro risk linger, but structural demand builds. We think this is the base building phase before the next leg up, not a cycle top. Now, obviously, Coinbase is very incentivized for this to not be a top because if it's a top to crypto, one of the biggest crypto exchanges is going to get their stock, you know, probably cut in half if that's the case, if we're entering a winter for crypto. But I don't think their analysis is too wrong. The structural demand that has existed for the asset classes that are now tied to the institutional element of crypto remain intact. I mean, even if you look at the the Bitcoin ETF flows and the Ethereum ETF flows last week, they were pretty good. It's not like they were that bad. Yes, they had some negative days, but at its core, they still added a decent chunk. I mean, on Thursday, you had 239 million come into the IBIT ETF. So, it's not like that demand is necessarily going away. But if the argument that Coinbase is making, which is very similar to what Tom Lee said, which is that there was way too much excess leverage in the ecosystem and that had to get flushed out, maybe that's a good thing. even though it obviously sucks for, you know, the people that were highly levered uh into crypto, but when you got people going 250x leverage on perpetual futures, like, yeah, we've got an issue, bro. We've got a lot of risk on appetite and that appetite can't last forever. At some point, that leverage goes the opposite direction. But if the flush out is Bitcoin at 98 and that was the worst of it, I mean, I'll take that any day of the week. doesn't feel like that's the the worst scenario to to be in. 5634. We got four more votes coming and then we should be officially in. Again, the market's already I think priced in. We'll see if the market actually continues to make a move higher once it's announced. Meta right there 634 from 625, but S&P up about half a percent. Should be good enough. Yeah, Google's up 2.2% 2% as well. So yes, the shutdown should end at least. Again, this is not the shutdown ending. It's just a temporarily funding um continuing resolution, which is not a complete end to it, but enough to at least get the market to potentially start moving forward.
>> That's what you have for today. Okay, I want to play this clip on the state of the consumer. Uh the Olm podcast had a pretty large debate about this. I'm curious what side you guys are on, but we've seen a lot of different perspectives on what's going on with the consumer. Here is uh here's a little bit of analysis here from Brad Gersonner as well and then we'll keep talking from there.
>> You know, and we used to do this on on on market checks when I was on and you say, you know, where is altimter? And so early in the year when we were worried about tariffs altimeter was positioned small right by May we thought they would land the plane with the best consensus you know uh on trade we'd get the big beautiful bill passed and we went to kind of extra large positioning and we've been there most of the year and so now we're back to kind of chimat just nailed it you know we're back to kind of medium medium small positioning in the market and I'll I'll walk through a couple slides as to the reasoning for that maybe we can kick it around a little The first one is just there's growing signs um you know the consumer is pulling back and you know you heard it out of Chipotle, you heard it out of Cava, you heard it out of NCL, you heard it out of JetBlue and and you know the the nature of it is we have this two-tier economy. The low-end consumer is faltering the higherend consumer is hanging in there but the consumer thing is making people nervous. Now uh compounding that is US credit card delinquencies are now uh uh back to two you know 2009 levels right and so you have okay consumer cracking a little bit delinquencies you know and now we're seeing regional banks roll over etc we're seeing the credit markets beginning to crack a little bit credit spreads blowing out a little bit and then if you go to this next slide you know this goes to what Sachs has has talked a lot about on this pod that we're still in highly restrictive territory When you look at the 10-year tips, you know, uh, the Fed is still, you know, got the market tight because they're seeing, you know, the market at all-time highs. They're seeing AI stocks rip, but under the surface, I think there's a lot of concern and question about what's going on. The good news about this is we still have firepower. So, what's gone on in this earnings season, you know, this next slide, basically earnings have come in really strong, you know, so we have 70% of companies that are beating. They're beating by wide margins, you know, in earnings. But if you look at the forecast, you know, basically earnings have come in about 11% higher than last year and the stocks are up about 13 or 14%. But the real question is as we roll into next year. And so, you know, Scott Besson on the one hand is saying, listen, in Q1 we're going to have some big tax refunds because of no tax on tips, no tax on overtime. and he thinks that'll give it a boost. But clearly, you hear them pounding the table that we need to get rates down. I tend to agree the low-end consumer who pays a lot on their credit cards, on their car loan, etc. is clearly hurting. We see these layoffs, these layoffs are are hurting some of these people as well. And so when you look at the multiples of the market, how do we look at it from an altimter perspective? We still believe that owning all of compute like we have for 3 years and a this AI trade has room to run but there obviously multiples have come up a lot. I talked about a four and those multiples now are being compared to hey is this an appropriate multiple to pay with what's going on with the consumers. So I mean that was kind of the core clip I wanted to pay uh play. You guys can listen to the podcast even further. I'll put the link right here in the chat uh to see the debate that they had. But the debate was essentially JCAL pulling up a bunch of these charts that go in line with what Brad Gersonner was saying, which is that the consumer's not in a good situation, right? Just objectively it's not good. And then you had David Sachs who obviously works with the administration and Chimath who's been very friendly with the administration kind of pointing back and saying, "Hey, here are some other charts that are showing the consumers." Okay. If you look at the comments, because I love to look at comments on these types of debates and see like where is kind of the crowd leaning, it is almost 9010 on Jal's side. And Jay Cal, for those that know the podcast, he's not the fan favorite on that show. A lot of people get annoyed by him for a variety of reasons, but almost 90% of the comments were on his side and they were calling um Chimathan Sachs basically uh puppets of the administration for not acknowledging how bad the consumer is is is is actually doing. And as a result, I really wonder, you know, how ugly is the consumer getting in in terms of a position and what that means for the broader market. This is that moment when Jake kind of called him out about being captured by the administration.
>> Again, you're trying to diminish me by saying this is what I'm trying to do is balance out the fact that you two guys are captured and are no longer objective on this podcast. You say the objective company where the CEO said the exact opposite and you won't take them at your word.
>> He said that a week later.
>> Okay. So, you get a week to make up your own [ __ ] Doesn't make it right. He was very tell they literally were saying in the leaked documents that they had a PR crisis on their hand and they were going to try to spin the job.
>> They're talking about Amazon and Jay Cal is 10,000% correct about that. There was a leaked document that that said Amazon had to figure out how to frame AI and robots taking over jobs in a way that didn't make it as, you know, bad to the public that AI was taking over jobs.
>> Trillion dollar public company said on the record and filed with the SEC that the reason he did these layoffs was because of ZERP and DEI.
>> There's two sets of layoffs. One of them is the 30,000 white collar people. Sure, we'll take him on his word. The other one is that they're cancelling jobs explicitly because of the AI that they're planning to deploy and that they're making PR plans to cover themselves for how bad that looks to them. Let's move on to Mandami. I want to read you some.
>> So, it was a heated debate and when I saw in the comments uh people were on the side of Jake. So, that's my question everybody here. Do we think the consumer is truly in a uh bad enough position where it affects the market? Because again, the whole nuance of that debate was that earnings, that's what Gersonner was trying to say, earnings growth is good enough to say that maybe you don't want to be giga long in the market like you were back in April. You can probably take some profits here, but you definitely don't want to be net short or you don't want to be out of the market. I think Bur is probably leaning towards maybe net short. And then you have some other people like Brad Gerson are saying, "Hey, we're going to derisk because there are some signs that the consumer is cracking, but we don't want to be out of this market." And it's that same bifurcation argument we've been talking about for the past couple weeks. I think it's a real thing, dude. I think it's a real thing because again, if Chipotle and Lululemon and all these companies are coming out and saying we have issues, but the S&P 500, 80% of the companies so far that have reported have beat by double digits on earnings. You have the AI EPS tailwind that's increasing margin efficiency, but then you have these real consumer brands, which maybe it's a problem with them. And I think we're going to need at least another quarter or two to see is it really a Lululemon thing, or is it, you know, a structural thing with Target and and Urban Outfitters and all these other clothing brands that are just seeing people pull back on their spending? Because if it is the latter, then that's going to affect earnings eventually. Now, will that affect Meta and Google and Microsoft and Amazon to an extent? will affect them to the point where you know you want to be out of those stocks. I don't know. I don't think so. Especially as rates come down and rates coming down is the natural tailwind that should you know provide some reprieve to the entire market. But that's one thing that I think we got to think about. That's one thing that I think we definitely have to think about. All right, let's see the vote update. It should be over pretty soon. Let's pull this up right now. I think we only have like 10 more votes left and less than 10 votes. Let's pull this up. Um 5640, right? Okay. So then we have four votes left. Four votes left. Okay. So we should know like pretty soon. AOC just tweeted. What did she say? Michael Bur just tweeted again. AOC just said, "The average monthly SNAP benefit is 177 a person. The average ACA benefit is up to 550 a person a month. People want us to hold the line for a reason. This is not a matter of appealing to a base. It's about people's lives. Working people want leaders whose word means something." Okay. So, you got AOC saying we have to hold the line. It seems like there's enough votes for the shutdown to end though regardless. Four more votes. It's been like we needed four votes for the past 10 minutes though, right? Why haven't they officially voted? We should know relatively soon. It depends on which sector the consumer works. My friend buying a third car tomorrow in less than three years. Yeah, I definitely think it's sector specific and obviously credit cards and auto loans have been two sectors uniquely.
>> Hopping back in live, my name is Jay Russell with live now. You are currently watching the Senate procedural vote to end the government shutdown. As we know right now, eight Democrats have voted yes to end the shutdown. We're going to continue watching this just to see if anything else changes. But just to give you an update, according to AP News, the Senate is voting at this hour on a bipartisan stop gap plan that would keep the government funded through January 30th. The package also includes a three-year full spending bills covering military construction, veteran affairs, agricultural programs, including SNAP, and the legislative branch. Now, the White House is not opposing the deal. Officials tell the Associated Press president is prepared to sign it if it reaches his desk. So, we're going to stay in this live currently just to see if we will hear anything else.
>> Okay. So, if it's just for Republicans left, we should get the vote soon that is in favor. Um, here's the thing. Here's what I'm confused about. Some of you guys can let me know. When this passes the Senate, um, it has to go to the House, too, right? If I'm not wrong, getting the 60 votes in the Senate is step one and then it has to get approved by Is that correct or is this the no? It's just these 60 votes and then that's it. Some of you saying no. Some of you saying yes. Yes, but the House will easily pass it. The House already passed it. Okay, everyone's saying something different. Well, we definitely have to get these four votes in for it to be real because I'm looking at some tweets right here saying that Jeff is not going to allow it to get a house vote, but that's not making any sense to me. So, chat might as well ask AI. If the shutdown vote passes the Senate with 60 votes, does it need to go to the House? Some of you guys saying the House already passed it. Some of you guys are saying no, it needs to go to the House. Okay, let's ask Gemini. Let's see. Yes, the shutdown vote, which is a vote on appropriations bill or continuing resolution funding the government passes. I still need to go to the House of Representatives. The 60 votes incentive is often the threshold needed to overcome a filibuster to advance the bill, but it doesn't bypass the House's constitutional role in the legislative process. Okay. So, if it does go to the House, I don't think it's going to be an issue because I think they have enough votes in the House regardless. But these four and that's why the headlines are that the shutdown is over because, you know, once it's passed in the Senate, it probably gets passed in the House. So, that should be the most important thing. Cactus says this must go through Senate procedure ahead still and then the House must vote. Okay, so it looks like the House will vote on this. We should easily get that passed hopefully. Yeah, the House is Republican. That is correct. The Republicans do control the House. Dude, that's why these Senate races and House races are so important. Imagine if you know the Senate had way more Republicans than they have right now. They wouldn't have to worry about that. they had a supermajority. This is why, you know, voting in your local congressional districts, this stuff really does matter because it can make a difference when it comes down to a bunch of these votes. But, okay, because you have four Republicans left, whenever that procedural vote finally comes to an end, then we should have uh we should have the votes that are needed. Bur tweeted again. Let me go to what Bur said. He continues to tweet about Palunteer. Did he just delete his tweet? I think he just deleted a tweet. He just deleted I saw it for a second, but then I went to the house thing, so I didn't keep it on my screen. He deleted it again. He kept the original Palenter tweet. He put it out an hour ago, but then he put out another one, and I don't have it because he deleted it. Bur is Bur. Bur is Bur. Um, okay. A couple clips of Karp have been going a bit viral as I don't know if people have people seen the Axios interview with Karp. There were some uh really good moments with him speaking there and I'll show a couple of them. The full 30-minute interview we won't watch, but I'll show you guys a couple of the clips. This was the most emotional one when he was talking about his uh his mother. So, I'll show this one. The story is actually in the book for those that his autobiography, but this was uh definitely one of those moments that people resonate with.
>> But most people don't realize that you uh came from very little. Uh you told me a story about a jewelry store in Binmar, Pennsylvania. You grew up in the Philadelphia suburbs. There was a landlord there who owned a jewelry store. do tell
>> well it's in the book and honestly there's so many stories I would not have told not because you know um I don't know but I guess my mom was totally [ __ ] someone helped her I paid them back and that person was a landlord gave her and you a place to live And they still own a jewelry store. And how did you I just buy a lot of stuff from them.
>> To this day.
>> Yeah.
>> And what is there for others to learn from that? Very few people will help you. And it's like her uh the helping my mom Mr. Schneider kind of helped me. Bunch of people in general people don't help you which is totally okay. But the ones that do are special. Definitely was an emotional moment. I mean, you got a guy who's worth almost $20 billion, you know, talking about the humble beginnings of not having a home to live in. And uh, you know, the book has a lot of those stories. It definitely was a very, very important book. But that was one of those moments where I think people could see the the real side of Karp coming from nothing and, you know, trying to give back the best that he can. Here was another part of Karp talking about what's going on with the Ivy League institutions in today's day and age, especially in the age of AI. bit from this prosperity. But who what occupations what types of businesses should be freaking the hell out?
>> The the thing about the commodity nature of LLM is it commodifies general knowledge. So like if you went to Yale picking on Yale because I have family members there and like so it's like you picking on them a lot.
>> Yeah. Well, no, it's like I like to pick on people who are strong. It's a very strong school. Like I I I tell people my advice to people around here is you know there's a couple schools you should go to if you get into Yale's one. Stanford's one. There's some schools you maybe should go to. Otherwise, go to the cheapest school and come to Palunteer or just come here. But like if you are the kind of person that would have gone to Yale, would have ear kind of classically high IQ um and you have generalized knowledge, but it's not specific, you're effed. If on the other hand you have specific domain knowledge like how do I actually bend the metal of the hole on a ship? How do I actually write a script that allows me to target terrorists in Pounder? How do I impute the problem in this complicated device that's going wrong that otherwise would be fixed by a Japanese engineer while being a high school grad? How do I put the cement in a factory with such precision that you can build a factory like it was built in Taiwan in America? How do I uh how do I do anything with deep specific particularly voca what's considered vocational training? Those people are going to make a a lot more money simply because you can turn it any way you want, but at the end of the day, within a relative rapid amount of time, you will get paid downstream of the value period. Karp's kind of made an argument in the age of AI is that you have to create value. And I think this is really really important when we talk about the job market because the job market is all the question about how do you create value and is that value enough to be able to get paid for that value and what we're seeing with the labor market is that a lot of employers are thinking that they're not getting value from some of their employees at least in some of these traditional roles. So in the age of AI I think he's incredibly um accurate on this. You have to have a specific set of skills that can then be tailored and work with and adopted via artificial intelligence to just become more valuable as an employee. And I think longterm that's going to matter as well when it comes to the broader trajectory of the labor market. AMD green 2.8% pushing 240. Got SoFi just below 29. Google at 285. The shutdown vote is not officially done, but it looks like it will be done soon. And then once it passes the house, we should have the government reopening probably by like Tuesday or Wednesday, maybe even tomorrow, depending on how quick they do the vote. But that is why markets are going green. And that is why at least we're holding on. I know all of us are trying to get this Santa Claus rally and again November the stats of the second half of November tend to be on the side of the bulls, but we have to see if it continues to play out. I mean, again, the Bears, they came out on Friday. They were pretty damn excited. I was seeing a lot of commentary from a lot of these bears saying, "Yep, this is the moment you've been waiting for. This is the pain that we've been talking about." And then you got a complete reversal on Friday and you're getting an extension of that reversal today because if the shutdown was the reason to go bearish, now the shutdown might not be a reason. Which is why we're going to have to see can this momentum hold itself or is this just going to get whipsawed back down to the downside and it wasn't actually the shutdown. But if it was, then again, a lot of the bears that kind of made that core argument last week, they might not be able to hold on to it. And again, like the the earnings growth is still just too good. We've been covering earnings for a while. We have some big earnings this week, but we've been looking at earnings for a while. It doesn't outside of the consumer stocks that we talked about, which yes, those have some issues. Everybody else is crushing it. Tomorrow we have Cororeweave, Rocket Lab, AS, Big Bear, and Regetti, and Wolf all after hours. Wow, that's a lot. You got Rocket Lab and AS Big Bear. Then you got Wolf, which is another Bitcoin miner. Then you got Regetti Quantum. Then you have Cororeweave. Uh Tuesday we have Nebus on the morning. I know that's going to be big for all the nebiest people. Um, Wednesday we have Cisco and DLO. Nothing too crazy. Thursday we have Disney, New Bank, and that's pretty much it. Oaklow is on Tuesday at the close, but Monday's going to be the big one, especially for the space people. That's what we got. All the data. When is it coming out? Look, I don't know. It depends on how quick the government opens. I think the BLS will have to, you know, reopen as well. I don't know if the BLS has been tracking any of the data when the government's been closed. Some third party sites have, but if the BLS haven't been, we're probably going to have to wait another couple weeks until we get real data. But like we get initial jobs claims every Thursday. So like theoretically, if we open up on Monday, will we get claims by Thursday? I don't know, maybe in a week we'll get them next Thursday. But it will be important to see if we can get them. Again, this is another chart around data centered related debt issuances. uh record 25 billion of US debt in 2025. This would be a 112% jump from the 12 billion issued in 2024. Um one could argue this would be even greater in 2026. But as long as there is some level of ROI from all the debt spend that we are seeing for data centers, then you could argue that there is a justification for it. Pounder 18418. Wow, you're getting a real move here, folks. 3% three and a half. And again, I think this is why Bur pissed off. Bur from my understanding is um is underwater on the short. I mean, I don't know the exact price that he paid, but unless he uh unless he got 200, which he didn't, or 195, which he didn't, cuz we were we touched 190 for like 5 seconds in Q2, and he put on this position during Q2, which means his he had to put on these puts when it was, you know, trailing around 160 to 180, I would imagine. And if he put on the puts when it was at 140 150 in August, then he's really down. Maybe last week he was profiting or or above water for a little bit, but there was not a objective moment where putting on a put position or a short position on Pounder in Q2, which is when the 13F was disclosed, is profitable because Pounder is not significantly down at all from the price action over the past three months ending in September. And you know, so if he started at 170 and we're at 184, he's underwater. If he started at 190, he's underwater, right? or he's or he's at 185. He's still break even. If he got 190, which I doubt because we only stayed above 190 closer to the end of October, then he would be even, but that's likely not the case. So, I don't know. It feels like it feels like he just wants more attention on this. Beyond Meat also has earnings next week. That's up 5%. Uh, again, this stock was at 750, fell all the way down to a dollar. There is a retail army around Beyond Meat. I'm not sure how strong of an army there is, but nonetheless, there are a ton of people that believe in it. Short float is still very high. Google right there 285. So, that earnings will also be important next week. Seems easier to buy a stock and hold than wait on its downfall, especially since he's a multimillionaire. Yeah, I think Bur loves the game, bro. I think Bur loves the game of shorting or of being a contrarian, right? You got you kind of got to be crazy to take the bet that he made on the housing market in the way that he did, but he did it. And I think he liked it. And I think he's been chasing that same high for the past 15 years, right? Because think about it. If you're the one guy on the entire planet, and I know there were some other people, but Bur was really the poster child that called the housing market a bubble, you waited for three years, you ended up becoming right. You get all that dopamine of being the guy who called it and then since then, you've never had another good moment. I mean, yeah, you're probably waiting for that level of excitement. By the way, gold and silver up overnight. So, gold getting a big move right here, up 1%. you're probably waiting for that type of big short moment again. And yes, he got China right, like he went long on China and he he got it right, which is great. But it's like he hasn't gotten that super super contrarian argument on the short side of something right since 2008. And I think he wants it to be right in the age of AI. And and again, I'm not assuming this for him. If you look at the pictures that he's tweeting, the the the pictures that he's at least kept alive, this is these are the pictures he's tweeting. He's tweeting a picture of circular financing. He's tweeting quotes of the telecom 2002 buildout and how there was an overspend on capex. This is the like when you put two and two together, obviously it seems like he doesn't think the AI capex trade is real and he thinks it's, you know, he thinks it's going to go to [ __ ] And if that's the case, I think that's why he's picking Palunteer and Nvidia. But those are my thoughts on what we got on Bur. Again, to me, I think he's shorting the entire market by picking Nvidia and Paler. I really don't think there's a world that Nvidia and Palenteer go down and the market doesn't go down. I think those two names are just too attached to what we've got going on in the broader market. By the way, gold ETF funds, here's another chart. 17 billion in September for gold ETFs. Even with the 4% decline, you've got tons and tons of money coming into gold. But I don't I don't think it's easy to um to make the argument that Palantry and Nvidia will go down independent of the market. Nvidia is 8% of the S&P 500. Palanteer is a top three traded stock in the stock market every single day in terms of options. So for those names to go down, you're going to need a decline in the S&P. really don't see them independ unless the companies mess up something fundamentally which if you've seen the earnings I don't see there's it doesn't seem like there's anything that scary given the earnings yes the multiples are high that's for sure but and mainly on palentry on Nvidia the multiple still is trading at 28 times forward as at a $5 trillion market cap like it's it's still quite incredible how cheap it theoretically is um you could have an issue with the multiple but to say you know they're going to collapse by 50% it just seems like a naive take on the state of valuations And Bur is supposed to be, you know, a bit smarter than than just saying, "Oh, the stock trades at a aggressive PE, therefore I mean, what like has Tesla not taught us anything? Tesla's, you know, been a stock that has been egregiously valued over the past decade. Still is egregiously valued. They're growing negative 30%. And the reason it gets a premium is because there's something else other than just the raw numbers that people care about. In fact, here's Marian time. She went on Bloomberg Tech. Here's what she had to say about Poundress. upgraded them to $255 and this is why she believes that the company deserves the valuation that they're getting.
>> Has proven that has been the winner of this AI implementation.
>> Yeah.
>> And I mean not only about like investment but actually the growth they are unlocking the customers actually going to them because they can prove that they can actually extract value from these AI implementations. And it does it doesn't only stop with those customers but also other software peers that are partnering with Palunteer because they also want to be part of this. They have like really good software but they are still struggling to actually make that software work and Palanteer is like from a fundamentals perspective actually proving that they can extract value from those implementations.
>> Your note is such a joy to read because you're using wonderful analogies going back to the matrix whether you're going to blue pill or whether you're going to red pill. But what's interesting is you're thinking that ultimately the red pill is there with Palanteer and they are unlike the 95% of failed pilots that MIT drew a focus on. They're managing to make AI work. But why? What is it different about Dr. Karp, Daddy Karp, however you see him, and indeed the go-to market focus that they have?
>> Yo, I cannot believe she said that. That was that is uh that's retail baby. Retail retail infiltrating the Bloomberg tech host. I think what is different first is that they have been working on this infrastructure that is actually what makes AI be operational for more than 20 years. This is something that today has more value than anything because of like the acceleration on AI and the new software that we have. But like this ontology that they have that is like the data integration that can actually unlock value from all these different like data pots and like have the human to be able to interoperate with that that has been in the works for more than 20 years and that's why they are a real winner. And from a customer perspective, you you have to take into account that they work with the US government and they have worked with the US government for so long. So they know how to do complex operations and they are translating all that knowhow into the commercial world. That is why I think they're a winner. They were prepared for this. Mariana, a part of the pressure on the stock this morning and we need to acknowledge it is that Michael Barry of the big short fame or scan asset management his firm have disclosed some bearish wages including on on Palunteer uh put options is the form that they've taken but for for there's clearly some some bigger picture worry about valuation and are we or are we not in an AI bubble the way that you put it in your note is to discern what is real and what is not real. What is it you see in Palanteer that you that gives you the conviction it is real?
>> I what makes me convinced about being real is what when you hear about the customers and the transformation they are seeing from implementing Palunteers product. They are like actually saving money. They are doing things faster, cheaper, better, smarter. Those real changes are the ones that make me optimistic about it. And I we have said this over time. I'm really convinced that even if the AI bubble were to burst, Palanteer will survive because it's the structure to actually extract that value and and do more with AI AI agents or whatever is next from it.
>> So that's what you got from Mariana. VG by the way making a move after hours. Why is VG up 10%. I'm not sure. VG being one of the wieners after hours here in the overnight market. Sashi, thank you for the $10 super chat. Thank you for these wonderful streams. Sashi, thank you for being here. Appreciate you taking the time to be here. VG's up 10.76%. Uh oil prices are up a little bit overnight. Nothing crazy. There's got to be some headline on V on VG. They have earnings tomorrow. Yeah, but 10% right before earnings. And this is not a stock that moves that aggressively, but yeah, it might be low volume, too. That could also be happening. VG right there up 10%. Uh, but as you can see, you know, Mariana's core argument is that, hey, they're winning. They're actually showing progress. They're orchestrating the implementation of LMS. And as a result, that's something that you probably don't fade if uh, you know, they continue to grow the way they're growing. We're still waiting for those final four votes, folks, to come through for this procedural vote to end the shutdown. We don't have it yet. There's some lady that's talking right now. Let's just go to her real quick, but we're waiting for this. Thanks, Maggie. Thank you. Uh, and I I thank my colleagues uh for their good work. The vote tonight, and you've heard um all of us talking about this. The vote tonight was crucial to open the government because too many uh Americans, hardworking individuals, seniors, ch
>> Okay, so we should be getting that vote soon. Why Why haven't these last four people voted yet? What the hell's going on? It's four Republicans, right? Uh, Poly Market still has the shutdown ending with a 60% chance in 3 days. Not tonight. Today's what, November 9th. Poly Market is saying there's only a 16% chance it'll end in the next 3 days, 66% chance it'll end in the next 5 days, and then 11% chance it'll end in the next seven days. So, betting markets aren't fully convinced yet that the government shutdown will end soon. What's going on with four more votes? Why is this like why is this hasn't happened? By the way, speaking of how real AI is becoming, did you I mean, for those that didn't see this yesterday, I couldn't believe that this happened. But freaking Bill Aman, dude. Freaking Bill Aman. So, you know, like those videos that pop up on Facebook or Instagram that are obviously fake and obviously AI. So, this is something that popped up on Bill Aman's feed yesterday on YouTube. Yesterday, we watched Zoran Mdani pull off what everyone thought was impossible. He didn't just win New York. He flipped it upside down overnight. But that was only the beginning. Because the moment he stepped on stage and revealed what he actually plans to do, it sent shock waves far beyond the city limits.
>> Far beyond the city limits. Like Elon doesn't even talk like that. This was a 30inute video. Bill Aman watched and listened to the whole thing and then he tweeted and he pinned it. This is one of the best explanations of what is going on in America right now. Why Zoron won NYC and what the risks are for our country. Elon Musk is the spokesperson. He is brilliant, incredibly articulate, and spoton. I mean, bro, at some point, you got to listen to it and be like, "Oh, this is obviously ChatGBT." Like, whenever I see a Chad GBT tweet, you can tell because there's like certain wording and like like you can tell it's freaking AI. And he writes this essay about how important it was for Elon, for someone who has followed Elon for many years, the choice of words, the thoughts behind them match with Elon, yada yada yada. It's so dumb, bro. It's like but but but imagine when imagine when the deep fake the the deep fakes get even better. Imagine when like right now it's kind of obvious to most of us this is AI. Imagine when it like legit becomes impossible to to like see from from truth and reality if this is AI or not. But within 10 seconds, I mean, let me play this again. Within 10 seconds, it's pretty obvious that this is AI. Yesterday, we watched Zoran Mdani pull off what everyone thought was impossible. He didn't just win New York, he flipped it upside down overnight, but that was only the beginning.
>> It's weird, but regardless, AI is becoming more and more important. Uh Vlad, he was on Bloomberg. Here's what he said last week about Robin Hood's Q3. I missed this video, but it came out a couple of days ago.
>> The board prediction markets have also been on fire. Right. So what what you're seeing is continued sustained engagement powered by the Robin Hood flywheel c more customers, deeper engagement, more gold subscribers, bringing more assets and uh the trading volumes have continued to increase as well. So it's just been strong across the board. I would say there's not one area that's particular outlier, but continued strength across the board. Markets are a tailwind for Robin Hood, right? And and so my question is what is and where is the natural embedded hedge? If markets turn on you, change direction, what happens?
>> It's a good question. And
>> okay, hold on. This post is even weirder. Hold on. Bill Aman then says in the next sentence, uh, it is highly likely to be AI. The principal reason why I believe this to be so is that I don't think Elon would have had the time to put this together. But even more importantly, watch what Elon says here is one of the most important things you will watch this year. Dude, what the hell is he doing? So, he says it's highly likely to be AI, which means he doesn't fully know if it's AI or not, which is astonishing to me. Obviously, it's AI. He's saying, well, it's highly likely to be. He's not definitively saying it's AI or not. meaning he's saying there's a chance it's not real or there's a chance it is real. Then he's saying listen to it anyway because I want you I want you to listen to my 3 million followers to what a fake video of Elon from a script from Chat GPT is saying about Zoron Mumdani. What the hell is this first part of the tweet? This is one of the best explanations of what's going on in America. Elon Musk is the spokesperson. So, you know, if you don't get to read the whole tweet, which is a kind of long tweet, most people don't read the whole tweet. Everyone would click on the video thinking that Bill Aman is endorsing what Elon is saying. Then, if you go further into the tweet, he says, "It's highly likely to be AI, but I still want you to watch a fake version of what someone would be saying because I agree with the script and I agree with the AI deep fake that's reading the script, even though that is not what Elon's saying. You don't know if that's what Elon believes, no matter how much you think that's what Elon believes. And you're propagating a fake, deep fake around Elon Musk. It's fake, but that computer's spitting facts. What is this, bro? What is going on? I didn't even see the part where he acknowledges it might be fake, but he still wants everyone to listen to it. That is so weird, dude. Cuz I would think Bill Aman's smart enough. I know, you know, I understand that AI is getting real, but I would think the guy is smart enough to realize the video is fake. But him then acknowled I didn't even get to read this part because it was four paragraphs down. Then him acknowledging it is fake, but still wanting you to see a fake video. Like what if Elon doesn't believe in this stuff? You're forcing people to see a version of Elon that is obviously not himself. Maybe he does, but if he doesn't, then like it's just weird to put that out there. All right, so that's what you got from Aman. back to back to Vlad.
>> And we we try not to um get so hung up on output metrics like trading volumes, right? Because trading volumes, as we've seen in the past, do tend to fluctuate with market activity. That said, what we look at is our market share. And we know that, you know, even though trading volumes can go with markets and can go up and down, long-term, we're huge beneficiaries of both the growth in the US economy and also the generational wealth transfer where hundreds north of 100 trillion of assets and wealth is going to be handed down from older generations to younger generations. These younger generations are folks that are digitally native, techsavvy. they don't particularly want to do their finances at brickandmortar institutions in person and they really value user experience and cost and so I think um we track our market share which has been growing pretty much across the board across every asset uh we're now up to a third of a trillion in assets held at Robin Hood
>> which um has been extraordinary in terms of growth as well and then there's these secular tailwinds of you know the US economy still remains the hot bed of innovation it's where it's the epicenter of AI I uh electric vehicles innovation um and I think young people are going to be uh the generation inheriting all this wealth. So the same group of young people and generation that's driving what you're seeing in in prediction markets. I I don't want to recount the data too much though, but just in the month of October, contracts and predictions have eclipsed what you did in the entire third quarter. So so maybe talking about some of the underlying trends and activity will give us a better understanding of who's driving it and and what's happening.
>> Yeah, that's right, Ed. I think the interesting thing about prediction markets is it rounds out the uh offering uh and sort of like uh completes the time at which Robin Hood customers can continue to engage with with the platform. For a while we were offering predominantly US equities which is very much a US east coast uh working hours type of event. Markets are open you know 9 to4 uh east coast hours and then we've expanded that over time with uh us introducing 24-hour market. We've added crypto and now prediction markets, a lot of the events, particularly in sports, are happening nights and weekends. So, Robin Hood is becoming increasingly a 247 platform where I'll put the link in the chat for anyone who wants to finish watching that. But, uh, he basically goes on to say they're becoming a financial super app and as they continue to become a financial super app, you know, Robin is positioned in a pretty strong suit. Now look, if 2026 ends up going bearish, obviously Robin is going to have some issues because they do need a bull market to continue thriving. However, uh I do think they're continuing to build the business to be a lot more resistant towards a macro that's not as friendly to the bulls. And you know, if Robin is a stock that takes a pretty nasty dip next year, if we end up getting a market correction, it's going to be one of the first stocks on the list. You just you can't undermine the level of product velocity that Vlad is putting out there. They're having another event. They're having a fourth event in December for AI and so bare market to bull market I think long term we're off and it's going higher but uh obviously the product velocity as of Q3 was pretty incredible and again I think Q4 is going to be pretty good because October was better than the entire Q3 in terms of trading volumes which I can't even fathom how that's possible but it was so I think Q4 should be setting up to be strong. Why are you guys saying I'm AI? I am obviously not AI. There's no AI that can mispronounce words as well as I do. That is always going to be how I differentiate from AI. Why are you saying my beard is? I did get some beard oil over the weekend. So, maybe the beard's a little more shiny. I haven't used beard oil in like four years, but now that the beard has grown out a little bit more, I started like putting oil on it. So, I guess uh I guess that's what the beard looks like. AI. My eyebrows are AI. Okay, that's what an AI would say. Dude, speaking of AI, okay, this is an AI, but shout out to uh the guy who started a new channel. He started a channel called Currently Right Now and he's taking the best clips from the market open and just throwing them on like the the funniest clips. I'll show you guys a little bit of He sent me this over the weekend and I was like, "Dude, this is hilarious." But there are some really funny moments that we've had for the past couple years on these streams and he's just like compiling all of it on on this one channel.
>> List is crazy to me.
>> I don't need SMC's margins are trash. Micron is cool.
>> I'm not taking it. They But you guys can have it. But
>> oh, Spotify's at all time highs, bro. That Spotify
>> I took two things at all time highs.
>> Yeah, I took some things at all time highs.
>> That's because you have a bad list, Stephen.
>> I listed he called you Stephen. That's how you disrespect someone. It's like
>> short-term investing at all. But I love all these names. You have enough chips. You have software. You have Amazon or Latin America. That's great. Shopify is expensive, but you got
>> Yeah, but do I even want to diversify or like cuz there's no Here's the thing with this game,
>> dude. Just shut up and just pick, man. Christ.
>> All these [ __ ] reasoning. I'm I'm just sitting here. So quiet for so long and he just throws.
>> Bro, you're picking a stock with magic money, bro. This is not affecting your real life. Just pick it a day.
>> Hold on. But this shows how passionate we are. This shows how passionate we are. We want
>> It's $1,000 and here. All right. Real.
>> Okay. I didn't even think at all about this. All right, chat. I need some help. Need some help on this one.
>> It was a funny video, dude. It's like six minutes. I'll put it in the chat. Shout out to the person who started it. I there's so many moments from these streams that like I've forgotten about but are hilarious. And so I'm happy he started the channel. It's called Currently Right Now. And he's just like compiling the funniest moments from these streams. So if anyone wants to check it out, you can check it out there and uh we'll revisit it for funnier moments. I that was hilar I remember Tanner was taking forever to come up with a pick and Chris was just like bro just pick a freaking company. I took forever too and I ended up going with a with freaking Dolingo as my last pick. Stock draft by the way I am in first place somehow. I don't know how but I think Matt Money will gap back up tomorrow as Rocket Lab comes back higher. But Matt's at 26, I'm at 34. Steve's at five. Tanner's at 18. And then Chris is at three right now. Chris had ELF which got him and then he had um Axon which got him. So those two are hurt in the portfolio for him. Uh VG still up 6%. Palenteer 184 up three and a half. S&P up more than 6. Nvidia 192. The Googs at 284 and then S&P at 675. BMR are we above 43 4391. Another stock I am uh looking at specifically just for call premiums. I was looking at this over the weekend and I couldn't really believe it. I'm trying to figure out what I'm missing here. So maybe you guys can help me as well, but I'll throw this idea out there. Verizon, just for the call premiums, Verizon's trading at 40 bucks. If you sell the $40 call every week, it's paying you 1% a week. It's paying you 1% a week. So if you buy a thousand shares of Verizon, that's $40,000, and then you sell the $40 call, you get paid 420 bucks. So this is not a stock to buy to get capital appreciation. That is not the goal of Verizon. But I was just looking at the chart. I was looking at the premiums. I was like, first of all, why is there a 1% premium on Verizon per week? That's 4% a month. That's not bad. And then you look at the chart, dude. This is exactly what you're looking for for something to run calls against. It doesn't move. Last week when the market was crashing, the worst they got to was 38.80. The highest they got to this year was 44 and you have a 7% dividend. That's correct. I'm not saying Verizon's a massive growth play and you want to, you know, buy Verizon next year for capital appreciation, but if you're looking for a name that's just like kind of steady, you can sell. And the reason I'm saying you can sell it at the money call at 40 is because let's say Verizon goes to 41. You can roll it, keep the same strike, and the next week it goes to 39. Let's say it goes to 38. You can keep it at 40. Next week it goes up to 39. I mean, like, there's really not a lot of There's a 2 cent movement all year. It's up 0.05%. I know Chris likes it, but Chris thinks it's going to 55. Chris has like spreads on it. I don't I don't know if that's the case. I don't know Verizon's business model that much. I think 55 is kind of aggressive, and if it gets there, then he's going to make a lot of money on his spreads. But if you buy the stock and it goes to 55, I mean, you still do pretty well. And if it doesn't go to 55, the question is, does it go down to like 30 given rates are coming down and given the earnings that I looked at over the weekend, I don't think this thing has to really collapse uh in any meaningful way. I don't think it has to go up either. But that's what I'm looking for. I'm looking for something that's just like relatively stable and you can sell some like it's not BMR. BMR you'll get more than 1% a week. You'll get like 4% a week, but BMR will also go up 10 bucks or down 10 bucks. in a single day. So, I the reason I haven't even mentioned this is because I'm trying to put out a a set of stocks. I'm trying to find 10 different names that people can run covered calls on comfortably in 2026. And the criteria I'm looking for is not even 1% a week. I'd be happy with like half a percent a week. The fact that Verizon's g That's what I'm trying to say. this is there something going on next week for these calls to be like there's 5,000 open interest for these $40 calls and but then if you go to a month it's it's almost the same range. So, um I'm trying to find a list I'll make a Substack article about 10 stocks where you can buy them, you're not super worried about the volatility and they still have some level of premium on the call side for those that are interested in running covered calls next year because I'm trying to find some names that I could buy and just not think about. Like I don't really if I buy Verizon next year, I'm probably not going to stress that much about Verizon. Like it's not going to go as up as much as AMD, but it's probably not going to have the swings that an AMD does. And if I can still get 1% a week, even half a percent a week, I'm happy with that. 2% a month, I'd be more than happy along with that divy. Nebas does not qualify as one of those names. Nebas will go up and it'll go down aggressively. Okay, PayPal I was thinking of, but PayPal is actually way more volatile than freaking Verizon. Case in point, PayPal is down 22%. Year-to date. Verizon, dude. I'm telling you, I looked at it this weekend. It's moved 1 cent all year. I'm like, wait a second. I can handle that. And if I can still make a couple percentage points a month, I'll take it, dude. you want volatility is only no you want volatility if you want really high premiums like BMR but if you're okay with 2% a month not crazy you know I'm not talking about Tesla which gives you like 8% a month which Tesla you know given this compensation package maybe Tesla is actually a candidate to not have that aggressive of a draw down we got to see going into their earnings next year but if you want something super safe where you just you don't think Verizon's down 20 maybe Verizon's down four or five percent but it's not like some you know BMR going from 60 to 35 in a month, less than a month, and you can still get some yield off of it. It's not horrible. Yeah, Ford is another one. I haven't looked too deep into their options, but Ford is another one. I know a lot of people do that with so I'm going to make a list of a bunch of these stocks and we'll make an article and for anyone who's interested in it, we'll take a look. What happened with the votes? We still don't have the official vote in. I don't know why these last four votes have not come through. Yeah, there's like there's still no like this is stupid. Why why are these last four votes not in? I'm on the Senate website and I still see 56 to 40. I don't know. It's being weird. I guess they'll do it eventually, but when they do it, we should have the official headline. Altria Group is another Altria Group has made a big move this year though. So it has been more volatile. Um I just couldn't believe it, dude. I was like the stock has moved five cents all year and it's giving you 1% a week. And so I don't know some of these some of these safer plays I'm looking into for next year. Again, we're thinking about portfolio construction, thinking about what the goal is next year, think about how to hedge against different like again, we got a market downturn next year. Verizon will be down, but it's not going to be down as much as like a Robin Hood. So, trying to figure out how to balance certain parts of the portfolio. You know, I said I would do this last year. I said last year going into 2025 after I sold all the hood options. I said I was going to balance out the portfolio and just like, you know, get a little bit more stability. I did the exact opposite. Deepseek happened and I went straight for Nvidia and I just said risk on. I bought Rocket Lab. I bought Deepseek. I obviously bought more Hood, more Palunteer. And it just turned into a risky portfolio again. And thankfully we've had a super risk-on year and hopefully it ends out that way. And then I got BMR like you know Tesla got it at 335. Should have bought a lot more but I don't know if 2026 we get to do that again. But I don't want to sell those parts of the portfolio to to balance out the stability. I just want to be able to have new capital maybe get into more safety. So we're going to have to see as we get into the end of the year. Yeah. SPY and VO. Obviously, those, you know, I got to actually set up a DCA on those broadscale ETFs and just let the money work there. But I'm thinking in terms of single stocks, if there's any yield I could get, you know, maybe these are a bit safer. We're at 59 votes. Is the voting back? Let me pull this up. I think it is back. So, we need one more. Uh, let's pull up the stream. Okay. next week. This is the longest that's ever been recorded in history. So, we're just standing by right now as the Senate clerk tallies those votes live. If this passes, it would open the door for the final Senate approval. So, we will continue waiting on that. Now, let's go ahead and go back out to a live look right now in Washington DC, the Capitol Hill. Now, moving over down south to Texas. Let's go ahead and check in. Andy Mack was speaking uh essentially with Greg Abbott. There was a announcement that was made in Texas. So, we're going to go ahead and check that out. Let's take a listen. We're still waiting on that last one. Um
>> is reelection bid. He's an American patriot, loves our country, and feels free every single day to tell the truth to our fellow Americans, which is what we need more now than ever before.
>> Okay, so we need one more vote. I don't know why it's not going through yet, but it should be going through. Let's pull up Bloomberg
>> mentioned there's still a lot of hurdles before we actually can say this is the end of the longest government shutdown in history.
>> Yeah. We'll first need to get the tally and then they need to do the test vote and then we need to talk about the Senate and then
>> the House and then the House. Yes. And
>> um
>> Okay. So Bloomberg is saying there's still a House vote after this which will likely pass but just getting 60 is not enough. It's a procedural to go to the house and then after you get that house vote then I think we get reopened. But yeah, like the the the extension of the some of the subsidies on Obamacare, for example, for about a year or so seems to be the sticking point there. But it does seem that Democrats are fairly open, but again, anybody could scupper this deal based on what we've heard so far there. But yes, we are getting late into the night and the hope is for markets, we'll make this very simple, there's a CPI report that's due out on Thursday and I think a question is there, will the government reopen in time for that report to actually come out? Uh, so we get finally some inflation numbers to to parse.
>> Yeah. And do they public information numbers?
>> Do they release this one first before all the other ones that
>> Oh, yeah.
>> that we missed. I don't know like what what does the flow of data going to look like?
>> Uh that's going to be quite interesting too, right? But I think some have said, you know, those that watch it say it's going to take some time
>> before the data comes out even after the government reopens. So
>> like most good things.
>> Yeah. You know, you got to get people back to work first, right? So that certainly is is one step we're looking at. I mean, there's still several steps as we say. All right, guys. I think before everyone goes to sleep, at least here on the East Coast, um we should get the Senate officially approving this and keep going from there. Then we just got to get to the House and then boom, I think we're done. Oscar and UNH, a little bit of a rebound. Bit mine's at almost 44. Oscar, Oscar was down eight, now it's only down four. So, at least you're getting some movement there. Pounder making highs overnight 18450. Nvidia 193 and then S&P still pushing strong 67545 which is not bad at all to see after this shutdown potentially being over. All right guys, I think that's it. That's what we got. Should be approved any second now. It will be passed 5940. it'll get that final vote and then tomorrow we will probably see that vote go to the house. I mean, it could be approved potentially as early as tomorrow morning and then from there uh we should be good to go. We should officially be ready for the markets to have a shutdown that's not or markets to not have a shutdown and to you know have some blue skies potentially to go higher. So, I think if we get rid of the shutdown next week, then the next big concern is data, the Fed meeting, Nvidia earnings. There's not that many earnings next week. Oh, and then 13F. So, Burkshar, by the way, what's his name? Uh Buffett. He's putting out a statement tomorrow. It's going to be his final statement to shareholders. It will include a message from Mr. Buffett regarding philanthropy, Birkshshire, and other matters that Bergkshire shareholders and others may find to be of interest. So, that's going to be really important. Um, and then we're going to get the 13F apps. They're probably going to start tomorrow most likely by Thursday. You'll get most of them. So, we'll see if uh Bergkshire bought more UNH, a lot of these other firms are continuing to load up on Nvidia, David Ter, what these guys are doing. We already have Burries because he disclosed early. That should be the most important thing for uh for this week. So there you go. That is what we got. That is what we got. Steve is live, so we can transition over for anyone who wants to watch Alternative Asset Weekly. I will link it right here in the chat. What do we spam, guys? We've already spammed CRN so many times. What do we spam? What's a good word for us to spam? Mitt, are you buying Meta? I bought a little bit two weeks ago. I am still trying to figure out if that's 620. Look, I look, I think if you're buying at 625, you'll be happy a couple years from now. The question is the most attractive entry. And I can't say the numbers aren't attractive enough to buy in right here. You just might want to get a little bit more analysis from Zucks about where the spend is going. But look, if we're full-on reversing Meta back to like 670, 680 is not crazy to imagine. The numbers definitely justify that being closer to 750 quite frankly. So, I don't think it's crazy for Meta to be by. Spamming 67 is boring. We need something else. We need something else. Um, what's a good word, bro? No, not grabb. We need something funnier. Costco. Oh, that's good. Cuz he hates that Costco has a higher multiple than Nvidia. All right, let's do Costco. Costco. That's what we're doing. That is what we're doing. I'll put the link again right here in the chat. Costco. That is the word. Let me pull up his stream right now. And uh there you go. That's the word.
>> I am positioning to buy a couple of the We're just going to call it the Charizard Setter, as Rudy would say, the Char Lizard set because I have no idea how to pronounce this. Oh,
>> hold on. I'm on my other account. Let me switch it to my main account. He's probably gonna be looking at this like, "What the hell? that somehow leaked onto the market with the English version being at 1,200. And when I'm looking at the Japanese ones, Japanese always trades at a discount. They have a better print. This is hilarious, bro. This is hilarious. I don't think he looks at the chat. It's going to take him a second to look at the chat, but there you go. Costco. All right, folks. Thank everybody for being here. Deeply, deeply appreciate it. Hope everyone had a good weekend. It looks like the bulls are in control and we're going green. Uh I'll be back tomorrow for the market open. We got a very very busy day. Lots of earnings, lots of different macro stuff to cover. Hopefully the shutdown is done by mid tomorrow if the House makes the vote. We know the Senate will vote tonight. We got one vote left. We'll get 6040. Go to the House hopefully in the morning. Shutdown should be done and then we keep going from there as we get into the end of November. All right, that's it. Thank you everybody. Appreciate you again. Uh I am not AI because obviously the misprononunciations are what differentiate me from AI, but deeply appreciate everyone who watches me over a over an AI version of me like how Bill Aman tweets out. So there you go. Thank everybody. I'll see you guys tomorrow on the market open. Have a good one and I'll see you guys tomorrow. It's the beard. Dude, the beard is shining. It's this brand called Jackman. It's shining. Also, I do have a I do have a fun announcement for Wednesday. I do have a fun announcement for Wednesday. It's a fun one. It's a good one. It'll it'll actually involve everyone here to an extent. So, uh it is a uh career announcement, but it's also very interactive, and I think it's also really cool. And I I had a meeting for it on Friday, and I think it'll be fun. So, we'll talk about it on Friday. I'm gonna have to leave early on Friday on the market close to go to New York because of this announcement. So, we'll talk about it. Should be a fun one. And uh we'll get through it later this week. All right. Thank you everybody. No, I'm not becoming a Grinder representative. Goodness gracious. Bye. See you guys tomorrow in the market open. Bye everyone.