Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. It is Monday, November 10th. We are back and we've got another week to analyze the global capital equity markets. Thank you everybody for being here. Hopefully everyone had a good weekend. We got a lot to talk about. We've got a green pre-market and the reason we are green is because the shutdown is basically over. Technically it's not because it's got to get voted on by the House, but the Senate last night, if you were on the market uh future show, you saw that 60 votes were indeed granted in the affirmative to end the shutdown. We needed 60. You had 52 Republicans. You got eight Democrats to join them. And as a result, the government shutdown is now headed. At least the bill, the procedural vote that ended in the Senate last night now goes to the House. The House likely passes it. And if that's the case, we will not have a shutdown anymore. Most likely, it's going to take a couple days. I don't know if it happens tonight, but uh the Senate has been out of session or sorry, the House has been out of session since um uh September 19th. So, it's been a while. And uh Mike Johnson just called for an emergency session open last night, which means over the next 48 hours, you likely will hopefully get some progress on the shutdown being resolved. And if that's the case, we get to get the government reopen. And as a result, the futures love it. S&P 500 677, we are up 1%. Tassis is up 2%. Nvidia is up 3.4. Nvidia fell all the way to 179. Now it's at 194. Robin Hood fell to 120 last week. Friday was definitely an ugly day. By 2 PM on Friday, everything pretty much changed as the market realized that the shutdown was likely not going to happen. It seems like the reason we had that much of a decline on Friday is because of the shutdown taking place. That reversal caused the entire market to reverse. We're not back to all-time highs yet, but 677, not too bad given we were pushing 659 on Friday. Grab is up 6%. We got some headlines on Grab. We'll talk about in a second. Google right there up 2%. So is up 3.34. So was 25, now at 29. Amazon back to 248. Meta back to 630. Meta fell to $61 on Friday. Absolutely crazy. Meta right there back to 630. Apple right here 269. SMCI up 4%. Bitcoin and Ethereum finally beginning to cooperate a little bit. We do have some update updates on Bitmine that we'll talk about in a second as well. Ethereum right there 3600. Bitcoin 106. Bit mine felt to 35. That's up 8% as you got Bitmine right there at 4336. So, it's been a pretty good 48 hours in terms of getting updates on this shutdown. And you know, regardless of what you think about the shutdown from a political perspective, getting it resolved at least is enough to get the markets to be uh I don't want to say getting back to normal, but consolidating whatever choppiness we had and potentially getting ready for the next leg up. Obviously, the next biggest catalyst we have is Nvidia. We did have a bunch of earnings this morning that we'll talk about, but Nvidia is going to be the big one in a couple weeks. And you know that will kind of decide the trajectory of where this market goes. Um but we got the shutdown seemingly done and as a result we should hopefully be able to continue going further from there. So thank you everybody for being here. Let's get into all the headlines. We got a lot of other stuff to talk about this week. We don't have a ton of earnings. The most important thing this week quite frankly um well I think it's two things. Number one, I want to see price action this week and see can we continue to make sense of the gains that we had in October. Again we had really good big tech earnings. A lot of those stocks were able to get somewhat of a lift. Some of those stocks didn't get a lift like a Meta and Microsoft. So, I'm curious to see kind of how the market interprets it a couple weeks later. If there's dip buyers that are coming in, if there's these fund managers that are chasing performance, chasing yield, what do they do towards the end of the year? And then in terms of earnings, you got Rocklab, Cory, Regetti, ESTS, Big Bear AI, and Terraolf today. So, I'll be live after the close and we'll see what we got. We had Instacart in the morning. Uh you have Nebas tomorrow. I know that's an important one. Oaklos tomorrow as well after the bell. You have se Limited, that's big in Southeast Asia. Then you got Cisco, Disney, Circle, ESBET, New Bank, Redcat, AAT, and JD. So, you do have some important companies that are reporting this week. It's nothing like it was last week, but the week after that is when we get Nvidia and uh you know, then we're going to see what happens to the broader market once we get Nvidia. VG, we also had their earnings this morning. We'll talk about that. I think they had a pretty good earnings and stock was kind of foreshadowing that yesterday. VG right there. Wow. 16%. All right, looks like they added decent earnings. I know this one got cut in half after the BP lawsuit, but it's nice to see a company that actually makes money. I think they did about 470 million in net income this quarter uh getting a bit of a bid right there. $9.33. That's up 16% in the pre-markets. All right, so let's get into a bunch of different headlines and let's start off with this shutdown news. Let's get a little bit of an update right here on in terms of exactly what happened and what are the steps going forward and then we will keep going from there.
>> Threshold and look there are going to be a few more votes in the Senate. We've got to have at least one more vote in the House but at this point the shutdown could be done within the next couple days and within the next week. Now, the agreement that they put together, it funds part of the government, including things like SNAP, agriculture, veterans programs for the rest of the 2026 fiscal year. The for the rest of the government and continues funding until January 30th. It also goes ahead and reverses those attempted firings of federal employees during the shutdown, make sure that all the federal employees are going to get their back pay. And Democrats have been promised a vote on extending those healthc care tax credits by the second week of December on a bill of their choosing. And while again these eight Democrats, they've said the deal on the table right now it's the best they were going to get, others within their party, including Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, were livid that the shutdown is going to end with no concrete deal on those healthcare tax credits.
>> Now, this is the most important takeaway from the shutdown. The shutdown is essentially or the deal that they've negotiated is just kicking the can down the road. So January 30th there will be another vote uh on the shutdown and if we can't get to any conclusion by January 30th then we will shut down again. So that is the kind of annoying part of everything that is going on. However, it will get uh furled employees to get back. It will allow it will be a reversal of a lot of the layoffs. It will fund SNAP benefits by funding the agricultural sector of the economy. Uh, and it will also make sure that a healthc care vote happens in December with a renegotiation as per what the Democrats have negotiated in this bill for October or for January for those ACA subsidies. And that's the reason why Oscar is down right now for a lot of people wondering what's going on with Oscar. Well, Oscar was primarily contingent and not just Oscar, but a lot of these healthcare names on those ACA subsidies being extended. Right now, it is not confirmed that they are extended. Oscar right here down about 8.5%. All the healthcare names taking a bit of a hit. UNH right there. UNH was 390 two weeks ago. UNH is down to 317. So I mean you gotta be ready to embrace the volatility of a name that has sold off aggressively. The most important thing I forgot to mention that we're looking for this week outside of the earnings is 13Fs. 13Fs and 13G. So we obviously had Michael Bur's come out already and that's where he disclosed his pounder and Nvidia bearish position. Um but we're going to get Bergkshire Hathaway, um David Ter, Howard Marx, a lot of these people over the next coming days. I mean, realistically, we should start getting 13FS either tonight or by Wednesday. Uh, the deadline is Friday to see all of them. And we're going to see what some of these super investors did in terms of making moves. I wonder if Birkshshire continue to buy the UNH dip. I wonder if Howard Marks continued to buy Grab. So, those are a lot of questions that I think are going to be really important to take a look at this week. Uh, remember the top three stocks that were bought in Q2 as per the last filings of 13Fs were UNH, Google, and Amazon. So, I wonder, you know, did people take profits? I mean, Google, you know, I think the average price people bought at was 172, now it's at 290. Um, Amazon was at around 219. Now it's at 240. UNH got to 230, now it's at 310. So, going to be curious to see how that all plays out. But the reason the the healthc care stocks are down today is because there is no confirmation on these ACA subsidies and you're going to have to just keep waiting until January to kind of figure out where exactly goes from there. Sam says, "Let me summarize it all for you. All of them went into grab spreads." Okay, let's transition real quick into Grab. So, why is Grab up right here in the pre-market? Two reasons. Number one, the Grab Goto merger is getting a lot more excitement. For those that have been keeping up with the Grab story, Goto is one of their largest competitors in Southeast Asia, particularly in Indonesia. Uh the Indonesian government, you know, this is not just Bloomberg creating a rumor like they did five months ago, although they had some pretty good sources for those rumors. This is a representative from the Indonesian president's office saying, "We are actively looking for a way for these two companies to merge. Not the fintech part of GoTo, but the ride hailing part." And they're talking about how important it is to make sure that there's stable employment for drivers, merchants, etc. that work on the goto platform uh which is or the go-to parent company, which is their their platform beneath that is Gojek. The problem is GoJ is not having the best financials and Grab is having really good financials. Alo a merger is why the government is a bit more excited. So that's one reason the stock is up. Another reason is Grab is starting to utilize their 7 billion in cash. They made an investment today in they technology. CEO Anthony Tan. We believe the future of mobility in Southeast Asia will be a hybrid model that relies on the expertise of our driver partners alongside autonomous vehicles and remote driving services. The initial investment will help accelerate VA's remote driving technology development and create valuable technical and operational synergies for Grab's long-term mobility strategy. It will also support bay expansion in the US where they serve a growing segment of consumers who prefer to not be car owners and are looking for more flexible affordable and mobility options. This is the third investment we ride may mobility and then they technology that grab is uh doing in the autonomous space. They invested 60 million with the potential to update uh to to invest another 350 million over the next year which would be 400 million. it would be a pretty sizable investment. And I guess you could basically say that Grab is getting very excited about the future of AV and this kind of hybrid model between autonomous vehicles and the current state of mobility. I don't know if that's enough to really make the stock move. I mean, I'm happy it's up 6%, but then again, Grab was at $6, you know, last week. It was at $6 for the majority of um September. So, I think you're going to need some more concrete evidence to get this one to really make a move. It's nice to see a little bit of, you know, pre-market movement right there. But overall, I think the market's going to want to see exactly what the goal of this cash injection is into these companies and then, you know, how it ultimately is accreated to the business. So, good stuff. I don't think it's bad. Ultimately, we've got to see a little bit more meat on the bones for the market to get excited. But that is why the stock is up 6% in the pre-market. Bit mine. All right. How much did Tom Lee buy? Well, he bought a decent chunk. 110,000 Ethereum over the past week. They now own 2.9% almost 3% of the entire Ethereum supply. So why did they buy this much Ethereum? Well, Tom Lee said on um on this press release that the dip was pretty attractive. So Tom Lee, the recent dip in ETH prices presented an attractive opportunity and Bitmine increased its ETH purchases this week. To me, it is evident that Wall Street is very interested in tokenizing assets onto the blockchain, creating greater transparency and unlocking new value for issuers and investors. This is the key fundamental story and supports our view that Ethereum is a super cycle story over the next decade. I mean, that's kind of the thesis that again we've been talking about for Ethereum for a long time. It is going to be a volatile ride and so that volatility, you know, you're going to have to be able to navigate um as the ride continues. But nonetheless, it is nice to see that they bought a decent chunk of heat. They also increased their cash holdings from 389 million to 398. So if we do fall below a 1 MNAV, which I think we were at for a little bit last week and I think now with the updated ETH numbers, we might be a bit above 1 MNAV. But it's enough for him to buy back stock and it's also enough for the company to continue issuing shares. TripleV, thank you for the $200 super chat. TripleV, I told you guys on Friday did get assigned a 100,000 shares of BMR at uh what is it? $40 strike and $28 for SoFi, another 100,000 shares or 222,000 shares of SoFi. So, he now owns 222,000 shares of SoFi at 28 based on those puts going in the money and 100,000 shares of BMR at 40. Now, I don't know if he's going to hold on to those shares. He might sell them this morning, but uh or he might sell some calls against them, but he's already up $3 on BMR. So, uh, up a nice 300 grand as BMR is now here at 43 bucks. Again, I know ETH and BMR is just a roller coaster ride. And if you want to get off that ride, then, you know, it's you're able to get off that ride. But, it's just one of those things where the upswings are massive, the down swings are also massive, and you just have to ask yourself, how much do you want to size it as a percentage of the portfolio to deal with that type of volatility? And yeah, for those that get into BMNU, which is the 2x leverage version of this, there you go. That's up 17% in the pre-markets, but it was down freaking 40% last week, right? So, it's one of those things about how do you embrace that volatility? But that is what we have for BMR and Grab right here in the pre-market. Triplev, thank you again for the $200 super chat. Appreciate you being here. Okay, so Nvidia, let's talk about what happened with Nvidia last night, which also was pretty damn bullish and I think was exciting to see. Now, Nvidia made a request to TSMC for more wafers for their Blackwell chip, which you would only be doing if you had more demand. And it does seem like they are getting a lot more demand. So, Nvidia orders 50% more wafers from TSMC, which is one of their largest suppliers, amid Blackwell demand. They've asked them to push capacity from 110,000 a month to 160,000. That's an extra 35,000 monthly wafers tied to Blackwell chips. This is all without China because Trump said they're not going to be able to sell into China at least as of last week. And Jensen Hong said demand is strengthening month by month and that all three HBM suppliers like Micron, SKH Heinix, etc. have already scaled capacity to support the ramp and that's why Micron is continuing to hit uh all-time highs. Micron right there 247. Wow. Up another 4%. I mean shout out to those who are long Micron. This was I mean there's a lot of semi-names that have done well. This one was stuck for a good year at 65. It really wasn't making that much of a move. I think everyone if you understood the basics of HBM you understood like okay there's going to be plenty of demand for memory. So I remember they came out they said we are booked to capacity for all of 2024. No all of 2025 because they said this at the end of 2024 and the stock was down 5% the next day. So you kind of just have to be patient on this one. And as it played out in terms of a thesis, you know, you got more than a double on your hand. Micron right there at 247. So what does this mean for Nvidia? Well, I think it means even without China revenues, Jensen is seeing an increased level of demand for Blackwell. That is very important as you need more and more hyperscalers that need to be investing in their capex and all of them told us they were going to be investing upwards of 100 billion each going into 2026. Most of them getting closer to 100 billion by the end of the year. Uh Google at 93 and Meta at 72. So, I mean, it seems like the demand story for Nvidia is not going anywhere. And here's a chart on Nvidia that I think is really important and then we'll get into some of the earnings that we have this morning. Um, take a look at this. I saw this this morning and once again, it just goes to show you what a bull market should consist of. So, back when Nvidia was trading $46 a share in July of 2023 when it really started having the types of earnings that it was having, um, uh, it was trading at 158 times. So it was trading at 158 times earnings at $46. Now at $188, Nvidia trades at 50 times. And if you go a couple years out forward, it's trading at 28 times. So it really is quite incredible. It is quite incredible to see the level of stock price appreciation with the level of earnings compression in terms of the multiple, meaning the growth is outpacing the expansion of the multiple. And you're seeing a really healthy, I think, uh, $5 trillion company, which yes, it's worth five trillion. and people hear that and see it's worth more than two candidas and people freak out. But if the earnings are growing and they can continue to grow at the level they're growing at, I think that's why it becomes easy to hold on to an Nvidia position. So if this black wall demand is only getting better and TSM is continuing to say that Nvidia wants more and more chips from us, then it likely means that even without China, demand for Nvidia strong and the AI thesis is likely not going anywhere. So makes sense for Nvidia being green right here in the pre-market. Again, Nvidia got to 178 on Friday. Nvidia right now at 19452. Speaking of Nvidia, let's get into some earnings that are tied to Nvidia. First of all, you had Coreweave, which is up right now in the pre-markets. Coreweave did have earnings today. Core right there up 4.75%. Uh Jensen Huang has an investment in Cororeweave, and you know, this company doing well is going to be very important also for Nvidia. Not to mention, we got Nebas tomorrow, which is going to be very important. 51 cents a share of a loss and 1.28 28 billion in revenue is what you had from coreweave. I think that is a uh a beat on the top and the bottom. Let me just confirm right there. But uh the internal nuances of core I have to go a bit deeper to understand. I know that their debt to equity ratio is aggressive and um yes, we do have Rocklab today and obviously there's going to be a lot more momentum for it, but nonetheless, that's what you have right there for Core. It's at 318%. Oh, wait. Is Core aftermarket? Oh, it is aftermarket. Okay, I got the wrong stats in. All right, so Oh, those are Sorry. Sorry. Those are the those are what the market's expecting. Sorry about that. So 51 cents is what the market's expecting with 1.28 28 billion in revenue. Okay, so today after the bell, we're going to see what happens. I was wondering why Corwe was up 5%. I thought it was because of the earnings, but I guess that's just based on the broader market going higher. So we'll get Cororeweave after the bell and then we'll get Nebius as well tomorrow. Nebus right here up 3.8% again. Nebas got all the way down to 102 on Friday. Coravee got down to 101. Both of those getting a rebound as we're seeing a bit of green right here across the board. Yeah. So Cororee after the bell. Wolf will be after the bell as well. It's going to be a big day after the bell. Wolf again has that stake from Google. Then you got Rocket Lab and AS. You got space, you have Big Bear AI, and then you have a obviously a lot of the GPU oriented data center plays that will be reporting. Big Bear right there up four and a half% as well in the pre-markets. Yes, there is going to be another Karp interview that happens this morning. Uh he did a walk around the office in the New York City office with one of the podcasters that uh they recorded to promote the book. And so that's going to be out later today as well. You've had a lot of carp interviews over the past week. You had that Axios interview. We saw some clips of that yesterday. The CNBC interview uh multiple of them last week. And then you've got this new book interview that's going to be coming out today. So, I don't know when it's going to be coming out, but when it does come out, if we're live, then we'll take a look at it at the end of the the market close. JP Morgan did have a uh $8 price target on Open Door. Look, the interesting thing about this JP Morgan price target, by the way, Grab got another upgrade to $7 today as well. So, I mean, pretty much across the board, the average price target now for Grab is seven bucks. The firm that upgraded them today to seven from 580 is um uh Philip Securities. Philip Securities went from 580 to7. Uh the reason they upgraded Open Door is not really because the financials. I was reading the JP Morgan report this morning and they basically said, "Hey, like we like leadership. We really like leadership." And you know, I can't blame JP Morgan on that. Obviously, Open Door missed on EPS by 71%. It was not really the best earnings, but they did a video call. I listened to a bit of it. And when you hear Cass speak, I mean, you just get the sense that this guy really cares. I don't know if he's going to be able to pull it off and really make it profitable. He definitely has a Elon Musk type of deal where if the stock gets a 33 bucks, which is like almost a 5x from here, you know, he makes a couple billion bucks. So, he's very incentivized. But just I mean, at the end of the day, when you're investing in these tech companies, you're investing in the people running them. And the lady that was I forgot her name. I think it was like Carrie Wheeler or something. The lady that was managing Open Door compared to Cass, it's night and day. Like truly night and day. So, it is very exciting to see him as a new leader. I don't know if that means the stock is necessarily the most attractive here, but if he can turn things around, I think that's why JP Morgan's a bit more excited about them and that's why they have that $8 price target. Also, he comes from Shopify and Shopify like Shopify can execute and he was he was what the COO of Shopify. He was one of those highranking sea suitees. I mean, you just you got a and he gave up like $300 million of Shopify compensation to come to Openoro. So I think if you're purely betting on him as a founder, then I think there's a world where he could make it happen. But that's what you have on Open Door. Gold as well is up 1% right here in the pre-markets. Gold was started to move last night after the shutdown news started to get resolved. Uh gold actually up 2.21% 4,89. This one fell all the way to 3,900. The 10-year is also up at 4.18, which is not the best, but you have people probably selling off the 10-year to get back into equities or gold or anything else that's a bit more risk on now the shutdown is done, causing yields to go higher. But you got the tenure that is up. Yes, he is not the founder of Openoor, but if you listen to him talk, he really does have some founder level of mentality. At least that's the way that's the vibe that I got from him. But we're going to see. You know, I don't have an investment in Open Door. I don't really love the business fundamentals. it's hard to get excited about their margins and like you know the trajectory of those margins. I just think there's a way he might be able to turn this thing around. And if anyone was going to do it, I feel like it's a guy who came from Shopify and you know turned that business into a monster. So maybe there's a chance that he can do it. Speaking of founders, you did have Vlad last week who did a couple of interviews. Here is what Vlad is thinking about the context of co tokenization which who knows if Open Door plays a role in. You did have Cass on the earnings call say that they want to play a role in tokenization, but here's Vlad's take on where the future of being able to trade anything is going
>> as a as a new product got adoption. They started getting tons of assets. When we were first starting Robin Hood, we were kind of moving in a different direction and there was some skepticism from investors who thought that everything was just going to be indexed and indirect and it would just be people investing in broad market indices and diversified funds and and we we made a bet in the other direction that in fact no uh people want to move away from indexes. They actually want to uh express their viewpoints more precisely. And so you're seeing more granular investments, individual equities, but not just individual equities, you're seeing options trading, the rise of zero day options, same day expir. And I think prediction markets are a continuation of that because you're starting to see markets uh for stocks and whether they're going to outperform earnings, for example. Uh a lot of a lot of people used to play the presidential election and have a thesis there that they would play by trading stocks or crypto, but now you can do that directly. So I think I think it's getting even more granular. people will have very specific thesis that they understand and they have conviction on and and we're giving products for them to express that and and on the land side uh that's super interesting because I would bucket that under alternatives right like people want access to alternatives the only way to have access to alternatives right now is through REITs or these diversified indices but what people really want is to invest in an individual private company as easily as they can invest in a public stock and maybe they want an individual piece of land or a property in a neighborhood ood that they think is going to do well rather than just some like commercial real estate fund that has that has a portfolio everywhere because they can they can better understand whether that's going to go up or down and I think we're moving in that direction. Tokenization is uh is is solving a lot of the technical problems with that and of course there's regulatory hurdles that once we get through I think will will open up lots of alternative assets to retail investors.
>> I think there's a big future a big big future in tokenization. All of that is going to be happening by the way on a layer two that Robinet has built on Ethereum, right? So there's a lot of interconnected operations here, but you know when he talks about people trading a piece of land or a piece of property in a certain neighborhood, I mean that really does get you thinking about an open door partnership. I don't know if it's actually going to happen, but uh you can understand why people are a bit more excited about that, but even if it's not an open door partnership, the idea of people being able to trade anything at any moment, it really does feel like the future. This whole idea of pricing risk on anything. S&P 500, right? They're up 1% in the pre-markets via prediction markets is also really exciting. Again, Robin Hina did 2.5 billion contracts of prediction markets in the month of October, surpassing the 2.3 billion they did in the entirety of Q3. It really does feel like this is going to become a billion dollar revenue business for them in a couple years and, you know, starting to grow at a very dramatic level. So that's your update on Robin Hood and what we see with tokenization and obviously that is the broader bullcase for Ethereum. UBS this morning they see SAM's number of 7500 not happening by the end of this year but happening in 2026. UBS expects the S&P 500 to reach 7500 next year driven by 14% earnings growth nearly half from tech. The bank sees early economic softness giving way to stronger global growth in 2026. US stocks are forecast to return about 10% led by earnings rather than valuations with gains broadening beyond big tech by midyear. UBS favors equities over credit expecting the US to outperform Europe and emerging markets. Pretty much every emerging market has outperformed the United States. Now we have a month and a half left, so we'll see what happens towards the end of the year, but you did have a decent chunk of markets including Japan and the EU uh outperforming the US. UBS thinks that'll flip in 2026. Now, another thing that we could see going into 2026 is a $2,000 dividend. This is what Trump tweeted yesterday. I don't think it's legitimately going to be a $2,000 sty check based on the clarification comments by Vent that we're going to listen to in a second. But you could tell Trump was mad yesterday. He started tweeting about a lot of different things. He said, "We are taking in trillions of dollars and soon begin paying down our enormous debt. 37 trillion record investment in the USA plants and factories going up all over the place. A dividend of at least 2,000 a person. not including highincome people will be paid to everyone which obviously sounds like a styi check but that's you know not really what they're going to do and that would be printing about $400 billion I really doubt they're going to do that especially if the whole goal of the tariffs is to pay down the debt like if they increase the debt by issuing $400 billion wouldn't seem to make a lot of sense this is what Bent did to clarify that $2,000 comment because Trump tweeted it while he was live and he immediately got asked about it
>> you know It could the the $2,000 dividend could come in lots of forms in lots of ways, George. You know, it could be just the the tax decreases that we are seeing on the president's agenda. You know, no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, deductibility of auto loans. So, you know, those are substantial deductions that, you know, are being financed in the tax bill,
>> which makes it seem like the 2000 dividend is already kind of baked in and Trump is trying to, you know, kind of make an argument for for the public perception there. There's two pieces of analysis here. Number one is that based on the stuff that I'm reading and what I could be reading could be incredibly wrong, but it seems like the Supreme Court decision might not go in Trump's favor. And, you know, a month ago when I originally heard about the case, I thought there was no way he was going to lose. And you know, as you get deeper into the logistics of it, it does look like even some of the conservative justices are not going to vote to say that tariffs are uh legal in the way that Trump has conducted him. So, I think Trump is trying to get the public to be on his side. had multiple tweets yesterday about why tariffs are the most important thing for national security and kind of the same talking points he's been having over the past couple of weeks now because he knows that if it gets reversed and the American public starts to turn on the idea of tariffs which largely you know back in April everyone was upset because the market crashed but once the market recovered people kind of forgot I mean we we stopped talking about tariffs if that conversation comes back into the fold Trump wants it to be on the positive side so there's an argument that the Supreme Court doesn't potentially uh go in his favor and Trump is trying to, you know, pivot the discussion. The other argument here is what would that do for inflation? And I think there's kind of two layers to this argument. One could argue that if we printed $400 billion, obviously two, you know, 2,000 per person, 200 million people. You would probably have a cap of 75,000 for um income that qualifies if you're single, 150,000 if you are a married couple. This was back in COVID. If you make more than 75,000 as a single person, you would not get the stimulus. Um 400 billion would be inflationary, right? like I don't think JPAL or even the new incoming Fed person would be happy about $400 billion of stimulus. However, one could also say that if you go the Elon perspective of AI is incredibly deflationary and forget just AI is a macro tailwind for deflation. you have all these layoffs that are taking place and that's going to be deflationary because if people get laid off and they don't have a job, they're not going to be spending as much money that you kind of have to inject some money into the system to keep the growth going up as high as it is. And believe it or not, I think that the the the second layer of that, the idea of layoffs and AI being deflationary means that if you put 400 billion into the economy, we wouldn't have that much inflation. It is kind of believable. Now granted, my gut tells me we're going to have a lot more inflation and there's not going to be enough deflation from AI or layoffs to be able to offset the 400 billion that you would put in, but there is like a pseudoeconomic argument you can make for the fact that maybe that 400 billion would be, if we did print it, not as inflationary. I don't actually think he's going to print $400 billion. It's just the way that the tweet sounded does make it seem like a dividend of at least 2,000 a person, not including highincome people. That almost makes it sound exactly what the wording was during COVID about, hey, if you make a certain amount of money, you know, you're not going to be able to qualify for these checks, but if you don't, if you're under 75,000 or whatever, then you get these checks. That could obviously be the argument for why uh some people are thinking that they're going to get a check. So, my like if if you had to, you know, gun to my head or are they going to print $2,000 checks? No. If they do, get ready to buy some equities because we are going so risk on. We saw what happened in 2020 after they printed the stem checks. We know that Robinet is going to get a ton of new accounts. We know that crypto is going to catch a bid. Like, we know we're going to basically create a bubble if that happens. And this time, maybe a lot of us can time it better. Um, but I don't think they're actually going to give out $2,000 to everybody, especially when Trump's been saying we need to pay off the debt. And I think, you know, that's the most important thing as well. Is it Chad's birthday? It is. Wow. It is Chad's birthday right here in the chat. Shout out to Mr. Chad Wallquist for his bday. Chad, it's your birthday. Wow. Shout out to Mr. Chad and have I'm Chad. I love that you're spending your birthday with me. This, you know how special this makes me feel, Chad? That you're Chad's probably like, "Dude, I just put this [ __ ] on in the background every morning just so there's nothing. It's not about you." But still, it feels like it's about me. So, I feel happy about that. Happy birthday, man. Shout out to Chad. Again, this guy is uh quite frankly the reason why I even got to go to AIPCON back in uh in June of 2024. And um you know, he just he started, you know, the story about Chad is is is so cool because he joined in 2023. He was he's not been a pounder for like 20 years, but he joined in 2023 and he then he just started doing [ __ ] He just started doing [ __ ] And as he started doing [ __ ] the company started to really notice, especially especially highlevel executives at the company started to notice. And you know, Chad was recruited by those same executives. But at the end of the day, he wasn't just another AIP architect. He was an AIP architect that started making YouTube videos. And you know, Karp started to notice and was like, "Hey, can we get more of this done?" And then he became this rockstar that he is in the company. And uh he joined when the stock was like $7. So he joined right before the rocket ship. and um he's done well and you know he's really helped us go on this journey and then you know as he started engaging on social media I think the company which really didn't embrace like me or Arie or any of this stuff and and who could blame them right like you know it was hard to kind of create that relationship I think Chad and Iano really got the company to recognize that if we tap in to this passionate retail investor base um you know there there's some good things that can happen because they are sort of messengers of our company to the community and that's when Iano invited me and Arie to go Karp in DC and then Chad got us to EIP con and then you know the rest has been kind of history since then. So shout out to Chad. Happy birthday to him putting his link for his Twitter in the chat. He was on a couple weeks ago talking about the Nvidia partnerships. I'm sure he'll be on in the future and we'll talk more about uh talk more about Pounder. So there you go. Happy happy birthday to Mr. Chad Walquist. So again going back to this topic around stimulus checks. I don't think it's going to happen but it would be quite incredible if it did. Now, back in 2020, I did uh get a stimulus check because I was making under $75,000. I don't think I would qualify for a stimulus check this time around. And I remember I was super excited to get the stimulus check. I was like, "Dude, a free $1,200 and then we got another $600." I was like super excited for it. You know, five years later, as I've grown and I've matured, I saw what that $1,800 did to the economy. Like, yes. At the moment, was that $1,800 useful? Yeah, even though honestly I didn't even use I I used the 600. I gave the 1,200 to my dad because he couldn't go to work. So I just like me and my sister both gave our checks to to my dad and I kind of helped pay the mortgage at the time. But um the $600 I remember I was like I I I couldn't afford the $300 car payment. I was like that's two months of a car payment. I'm you know that 600 is useful. But all the inflation it created was not worth it. I mean it just it really wasn't worth it when you look at it from a macroeconomic perspective. So I think Trump knows this. I think Lutnik knows this. Bet knows this. They all know that the inflation that was created in the Biden era because of the stimulus checks which also included the Trump stimulus checks and oh yeah then we got another 1,200 right or it was 1,400 in 2021. I forgot how much it was. It was supposed to be 2,000 but I think it was like 1,400. But it was a lot of money they printed, bro. 7 to 8 trillion. It wasn't worth it, dude. We had inflation at the worst in in 40 years. So I would imagine unless we have some massive deflation via AI and layoffs, you're likely going to see that problem again. And that's going to hurt equity prices eventually. it's going to create a bubble and then eventually the bubble pops and then you have equities that have to deal with rising interest rates or we lower interest rates, have massive stimulus and then we just have inflation shoot back up and no one cares about it and we don't, you know, have this magic 2% target which maybe that's the solution, but it doesn't seem like stimulus would be the best idea. So, we're going to have to see how it ends up playing out. Again, I don't really think it's going to be uh $2,000 checks, but I think Trump is trying to win the public perception of what we are going to see with tariffs. Someone says my dumbass was buying AMC with that. I was probably buy, you know, when the Biden inflation checks came. I think it was 1,400 bucks, right? I don't know what I bought with it, but I probably bought some stupid stock in 2021 that didn't end up working up. So, we're going to have to see. We're going to have to see how it plays out. But nonetheless, that is one of the main arguments that Trump made over the weekend. Now, in terms of the health of this bull market, couple charts right here that I want to show everybody. Um, you know, I know there's a lot of bears right here saying we're frothy, but take a look at this chart right here. Are we that frothy? I mean, look at the IPO market. In 2025, we've had 56 IPOs. We haven't had a ton of IPOs. Do bubble, we had 511. 2021 we had about 250 in the spack boom. 2025 we've had a little bit over 50. We've not had a massive amount of IPOs. All the major companies like Stripe, Discord, like these companies have not gone public. CLA is like one of the major ones that did and Cla's IPO has not really been the best. And a lot of these IPOs, they haven't done that well if the companies haven't put up earnings. I mean Figma, you know, went up 3x in a day, but then Figma came back down to reality after people ended up just selling it off. So, we didn't have some crazy crazy level of exuberance in the market via M&A or IPOs. And I think that's pretty healthy. And that also sets up 2026 to have a lot more IPOs come into the market, you know, without having this massive level of uh exuberance there. Although, yes, we we have had a variety of different companies like Beta, they went public last week with the EvoS. It's just not as aggressive as it was back in 2021, which I think is important. Uh, another chart right here in terms of shutdowns. So stocks were higher during the shutdown, but not by much. As you can see right here for 2025, we started on October 1st. It looks like we're ending on November 9th. Uh stocks have been higher 20 out of 22 times a year after the government opened back up. So whether it's Democrat or Republicans, the S&P 500 on average is up 12.7% 12 months after the uh shutdown has ended. And the only two times we were negative was 2018 and 1983 and then 1976. So three times out of about 20 that we were negative. Most of them have been green. So if that follows what we're seeing then, you know, we likely have a green market 12 months from now. Obviously, if earnings can continue to hold up, which will be very important. Open AI, here's a headline this morning. Open AI is weighing a move into consumer health apps. OpenAI is exploring consumer health tools, including a personal health assistant or an app that can put all your medical data into one place. the company has brought in new health product leadership and says Chachi already sees a huge volume of health questions. I think this is a massive massive argument for um for the consumer world and the reason for this is because uh OpenAI has a ton of people that ask healthcare questions to it every single day. We looked at a couple of uh videos yesterday from the opening I CFO and they talked about this idea of how fast the company is moving, how fast they're growing, why they're able to justify spending 1.4 trillion even though they're doing 20 billions of dollars of revenue. And the reason is because of all these different verticals that they're getting into. One of those verticals being massive enterprise adoption which the CFO said is growing 9x year over year. The other adoption might be this consumer health play. I mean I'm sure people have asked OpenAI or Chhative a question around their health and have gotten an answer. There's plenty of stories of people, you know, really getting some life-saving advice by asking Chat a question, not asking it to Google, then going to some random blog that gives you health advice. There's always a gray area between what these chatbots are able to say from a healthcare perspective. But if they can formalize it into a product that is more sophisticated around an AI assistant for health, not saying that's going to blow up, but it could be one of the best use cases of AI. I know Siri or I feel like Siri would have a meaningful opportunity because they already have your Apple health data to go after that as well. And then obviously Gemini is probably going to be in the mix. A more healthier version of WebMD. Exactly. So, uh, you're just seeing a lot more verticals for AI increasing. And if those verticals can substantially increase and actually generate meaningful forms of revenue, that could be your bullcase for AI. That's part of the HIMS thesis. Yeah. Well, look, a lot of these companies are probably going to try to undercut the the vertically integrated players like a HIMS and just do it themselves. And the one thing they have over HIMS is distribution, right? They have like 800 million people that are asking questions about health constantly. But HIMS also has, you know, actual products and they have more data on the users that they do have. So I think that would be the way you kind of see the competition or the competitive dynamics of how that plays out. Um, but that's what you got from OpenAI. Micro Strategy did buy some more Bitcoin this morning. Sailor continues to buy the dip. They bought 487 more Bitcoin, average cost of 102,000. They now hold 641,000 at an average of 74,000 per coin. So, they continue to buy. Uh earnings this week or this morning. So, we had a bunch of different earnings. Let me just say a few of them right here. Uh Instacart, they beat earnings 51 cents versus 50 cents and then 939 million versus 933. So, you had Instacart, which is another consumer play. The stock is up right here about 7%. I am curious to go through their transcript on the earnings call and see what they had to say. Instagart to me is just the more expensive version of Door Dash except you're getting your groceries instead of your food. Um, so the question is, you know, do people have the ability to afford having someone deliver the groceries. So definitely want to go through their earnings. E Toro, they beat on the top and the bottom 55 cents versus or sorry, 60 cents versus 55 cents expected. 4.1 billion versus 200 million expected. Not sure how they had that massive beat on revenue. E Toro right there is up 2%. Probably something technical there that we'll look into, but E Toro that had a good beat. And then Pagaya, which is a a loan issuer, if I'm not wrong, they also had a pretty strong earnings. PGY. Wow. 20%. Okay. So, they also made a pretty big move because of crypto trading. Really? Crypto gave them an extra $3 billion of revenue for E Toro? That's kind of crazy. Okay, I'm going to go through their earnings for sure after this and see what they've got because if that's the case, the analyst expectations for it Toro have to change dramatically if crypto is really bringing that momentum. Uh revenue of 350 versus 338 for Pagaya adjusted even of 107 versus 93. Gap net income of 23 network volume of 2.8 billion. Looks like they beat on the top and the bottom and they beat on guidance. They raised their gap net income from 75 million to 82. Raised revenue targets from 1.26 26 to 1.32. And that's what you got for Baguaya. VG also crushed it. We'll get their numbers in a second. Got about 30 seconds until the market opens. But nonetheless, pretty good earnings across the board. Again, last week you had some mixed earnings with some of those consumer companies just not putting up the best numbers. But if those are isolated to mainly consumer uh companies, then you know that's not the worst thing in the world. VG also with a beat on the top and the bottom. Revenue was 3.3 billion. net income improved from a loss of 347 million to a gain of 429 million. And that's why BG is up 17% in the pre-markets. All right, here we go, folks. 20 seconds. Thank you everybody for being here. We're going to see if a green week can continue. It was ugly on Friday. The shutdown news started to reverse. We officially got an end to the shutdown last night. It will go to the house. Once that gets approved, we will have a shutdown that completely is reversed. And if that's the case, maybe the market will like it. 9:30 a.m. Monday, November 10th. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market once again is open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. S&P 500, 677. We are up 1% on the day. Wow, Nvidia 195. Look at that. Pretty big move as soon as we get into the open. 194.97 on Nvidia. That's up 3.62%. That goes green. Robin Hood 134.99. Pounder 18375. as we are going green. SoFi at 2889. Okay, Robin Legend. This is the fourth day in a row where it's messing up. As you can see, everything is frozen. Okay, it just unfroze. There you go. That means they're getting a lot of demand as soon as the market opens on this product. Grab right there from 590 to 579. That's up 4% right there 199. That's green. Amazon, that's green. Meta 1.3%. That is green. Hoodie right there 13578. That's up 4% on the day. Palinger 18475 did hit 184.95 for a second. Yeah, a couple of you saying your legend is bugging a little bit. Looks like a lot of people are using the platform as soon as the market opens. S&P up 1% above 1%. Wow, 678 guys. If we can get to 680, I think that's a very important level for us to reach even psychologically, which would be nice. Google right there 283. That's green. SoFi 2901 trying to get up there. Nvidia is up three and a half and then S&P is up 1% as well. Reddit goes back above 200. Salesforce actually goes red on the day. Apple right here 270.5 that's green. Micro Strategy that's up 2%. ESS is up 2.96%. Hims is up 3%. Got pretty much everything starting to get a green bid. Apploven at 640. They had a great earnings. Rocket Lab fell to 47 last week. Now it's at 5335. Redcat's up 2.69%. Delta's up 1.7. Door Dash is up 1.43 after going down 20%. Now again, a lot of uh flights were cancelled over the weekend. You had 10,000 on Sunday alone that were cancelled. Uh if you looked at some of the li the lines at the Dallas Fort Worth airport, it was kind of crazy. You had like 500 people waiting outside. So definitely that being resolved is going to be very important. Archer right there is up 2.63 3%. Micron is pushing 250. Nvidia 195. Micron, wow, 253. My goodness. Congratulations to those that are in Micron. I think Neil Couch investor has been big on this name for a long time. So, shout out to him. Look at that. 25325. That's up 6 and a half% on the day. BMR, do we get 43? We get 4294, just below 43. Uh Netflix is going to officially do their split on November 17th. Netflix right there up about 1.2%. The stock will be trading at $111 if the stock is the same price as it is today on November 17th. So, in about 10 days, we will see that split. Celsius, are you getting a move? Celsius up 5.9% after falling 20% last week. VG uh 9%. Wow, it was up 16. So, gave back about 7% of the move as soon as the market opened. You had people obviously take a profit as the stock market open. Oscar is down 10% because the Affordable Care Act subsidies are not fully extended. And this is why this stock is down. It's why all the healthcare stocks are down. Wow, Oscar really getting dumped right there. 12% on the day. Again, if you're investing in these healthcare names, you've got to understand the internal nuances of those ACA subsidies and why it matters for those companies bottom lines. Oscar is a very small healthcare company. I mean, again, there's a $4 billion market cap. So, they really, really need those subsidies. And with it's not that, you know, they have no potential to get those subsidies. Again, United Healthcare about to go green. It's just that there's no clarity until January until we have another vote. I think that's why Oscar is getting hit right there. Down 13%. Goodness gracious. It already fell 10% on Friday. Where's Lemonade, which had a great earnings. Lemonade right there, that's actually up 75%. That's great. Hoodie 137. Not bad on the hood. 5.68% up on the day. SoFi is up 4%. SoFi trying to get right back to 30. I did buy the SoFi dip last week at around 28. I ren 6734. That's up 7%. Uh, Meta, are we making a move? Meta getting a little bit of a dump. It's still green. It was at 640 last night. Now it's 626. You're trying to see the trend on Meta in one direction, but every day it's kind of going back and forth. Again, Meta, although I think that the capex spend is not necessarily clear in regards to what the ROI is going to be for Zux, where it's more clear for Google, Microsoft, and Amazon, it is cheap. Like Meta is stupidly cheap when you look at it on a forward basis. It it is it is kind of feeling like Google at 140 even though the the playbook for Google at 140 seemed more clear in the road map but on a multiple basis I Google at 140 was still a bit cheaper than Meta Meta is still looking pretty damn cheap right here so you cannot blame anyone I think for at least taking a nibble and buying that dip app 7% for AppLin very nice to see Apploven make a move right here they still have that SEC probe wow Palenteer 187 oh you know someone's pissed off this morning you know someone's was pissed off this morning and that person is the same person who was tweeting about Palunteer last night. Michael Bur put out this tweet. Doesn't surprise me one bit that Alex Carpin is ontology cannot crack a simple 13F. A fundamental principle of any rigorous onlogical or epistemological model whether philosophical or in data science is recognizing when your information is set is insufficient for valid conclusions. I don't know what the hell he's saying. The gut reaction is that he's thinking that Palanteer doesn't really understand what he disclosed on his 13F. And from my understanding, whether it's shorts, whether it's puts, it's a bearish bet on Paler. And so if he thinks that Karp is reacting in a wrong way because he can't read the 13F, I'm like, well, the 13F says you have a bearish position on Palager, whether you're shorting it or whether you have puts or whatever financial instrument you're using, it's not bullish. So, I don't know what he's trying to say, but nonetheless, I don't think he's happy. That pound right here is up 5%. Robin Hood right there, 138. That's up 5.9. was almost pushing 139. Cororeeve, again, we get earnings after the bell. Corave right, they're up 4%. Uh, and then Nebius, we have 115. I think the biggest thing for Nebius is when's the next deal? Like, when's the next Microsoft deal? The biggest thing for Cororeweave is the unit economics on their debt issuances in relationship to their deals because they already have a ton of deals. They have obviously announced more deals than uh Nebas. The biggest deal they had was the 14.2 billion one with Meta that was announced a couple weeks ago. Now it's about, you know, what do the unit economics look like on the actual debt to equity ratio that they're putting out. But for Nebius, it's like, hey, what's that next deal? And I think those are the two big questions for these companies. Intel right there, that's up 2.4 at 39. GameStop at 2161. And then Archer, that's up 3% on the day. Amazon back over 250. Very nice to see. Here's a question for everybody. Let's see what people are thinking. Uh would if you had to hold one for the next year, so call it till November 26. Uh Amazon at 250 as an entry or Meta at 6 called 625 as an entry. It's actually a good poll. Let's do that. Meta at 625 as your entry or Amazon entry if you had to hold one for the next year. Hold for one year. Meta at 625, Amazon at 250. I love Amazon, but I might have to pick Meta, dude. Like, I love Amazon, and Amazon to me is a 10-year-old, but I think on a valuation basis, I might have to pick Meta there because Amazon's cheap, but Meta is becoming stupid cheap. And so, I am curious what people think on that. AS right, they're up 2.7%. That's back in the 70s. VIX is down 5% on the day. Very nice to see. Senate Republicans gathering at 1 pm. Okay. Hopefully we have this vote in the House coming soon. Pound share 187 again. Bur's got to be so pissed off. Dude, there's no way Bur initiated his short anywhere nearly above 187. We were barely above 187 for all of Q2. So, whenever he put on the put position or the short position, whatever it is, it had to be in the 170s, which means he's not really making a lot of money on this right now. And maybe it was in the 180s. Maybe it was at 185. Okay. like but like there's no way it was that much above 185 because we were barely trading about that until October and and the put position was disclosed before October. So unless he's already out of the position which is why he's like trolling pounder with these tweets if he's still in it he's likely underwater app right there 665 that's up 7.24.24% 24%. Where is Duolingo after a 30% decline? Wow, Dolingo still red. Incredible. Duolingo still red 199. This one cannot catch a bid. I mean, it's up from 180. My goodness. So 10 cents away from 30. It would be very nice to see it go to 30. Uh, Open Door is up because JP Morgan upgraded them to eight bucks. That's why that stock is getting a 10% move. So you have more of a bullish price target for for an open door. That's why you got a green. Uh Rubric partnered with Amazon today. So that stock Rubric are getting a move about 4%. Rubric announced they partnership with AWS. 7627 on Rubric. This one was like 85 a couple weeks ago. Fell all the way down to like the low 70s now back to 76. So not too bad to see. Joby right there that is up 5%. And then you have Zeta which is up 2%. I will be interviewing Ronnie. Ronnie, a lot of you guys know him in the Oscar community. Uh he is also getting excited about Zeta. I am going to be interviewing him on Wednesday on the Equity Edge show that I do on Twitter spaces with Stock Talk and then potentially on my channel next week. So uh we will be talking to Ronnie about Zeta and we'll get some of his thoughts on what's going on there. Grab back to 590 Palinger. Wow. 18805 continuing to hold up that 188 level. AMD right there at 4%. AMD nice recovery too. This thing went down to 225 last week and it and it didn't even end green on Friday. So, the fact that it's going green today is very nice to see. Nvidia right there just below 195. AMD at 243. So far, do we hit 30? We did touch 30. We touched 30. EOSE, I know my EOS Energy folks are loving this. That's up 4% at 19 bucks. How much is this stock up year to date? I've not really done a deep dive on these guys. Wow. 243%. I do not know too much about their multiples or their valuation. I do think it's one of those that's trading at a very aggressive multiple, but obviously there could be a reason for that, especially based on how much energy storage is growing. So, this is one that I do have to take a look at. But that one getting a bit of a move right here. I mean, pretty much everything's getting a move, dude. What's down? Duolingo's down. Baba's down a little bit. Walmart's down. Home Depot's down. Lyft is up. Loheed Martin is down. All the semis are green. Rare earths are flattish to green. Some of them are red, some of them are green. Um, the Bitcoin miners are all green. Look at that. Marathon, Riot, Galaxy, Core Weave, Nebas, APLD, CleanSpark, Wolf, Cipher, Iran back up 7.6%. UNH back to green. Pounder just touched 189. Um, wow. If Pouncer gets back to 195, Bur is not going to be happy about that. We hit 18880, very close to 189. And then the semiconductor names um seem relatively green. Semis are Yeah, look at the semis. Intel, TSM, Qualcomm, Marll, LM Research, Micron's up 7%. Goodness gracious. Nvidia's up three and a half. AMD's up four. Broadcom's up two. ASML's up one. SMCI is up four. SMH is probably up two to three%. SMH is up 2.9%. There you go. We are pretty much green. Someone said Bur closed their puts on Friday. Okay. How would you know that if Bur closed their puts on Friday? And like do you have any information that Bur closed his puts on Friday? Because I feel like legally no one knows until it's disclosed 45 days later. And he definitely didn't tweet about it. Amcor right there 3585 that's up 3% that is green which was down 35% last week wow 9% I mean 117 to 75 back to 80 I am sure he closed it okay that's not enough of a source I'm sorry you're going to need to know a little bit more than being sure that he closed it here's the thing dude if he initiated the short at 175 and pounder fell to 170 do you think someone who thinks it's the most overvalued company in the world is going to close the short for a $ five dollar gain. No. Like like I unless he unless he because if he does, that's actually the most bullish because yeah, maybe he made a couple million dollars, whatever. But it definitely wasn't a big short 2.0. It was a hey, I'm wrong. I'm gonna take my money and get the hell out before I end up becoming really wrong. And I escaped with a little bit of profit, which at that point kind of goes to Carb's point about market manipulation and him just trying to create liquidity for his position, which is why he disclosed the put position two weeks earlier than the 13F have to be disclosed. But if you take a billion dollar put position, I would imagine you think something is egregiously overvalued and it should collapse by a minimum of 50%. And if that's not happening then, you know, then obviously he didn't have that much conviction probably after he saw those earnings as well. Google right there 287 that's up 3%. Applovin making a nice move. Lily hitting some new highs after that announcement with Nova. Wow. Lily 5%. Lily is a big company. 913 billion. 5% move is not small. That is getting awfully close to becoming they would be the world's first trillion dollar pharma, right? They would be the world's first trillion dollar pharma. And then SoFi back to 30. SoFi back to 30 where it belongs. $305 on SoFi. Yes, puts and shorts are a bit different. 100% agreed. And maybe that's what Bur is saying when he says that, you know, people don't understand a 13F. But regardless of if it's a put or a short, it is a bearish bet. You need the stock to go down for you to make money. And so when you take a billion dollar even if the put position not short position yeah you you're not infinite you're not you know infinitely risking the potential of an infinite loss but you are assuming that the stock's really going to get hit right and I don't think that's necessarily happening the way that he thought it would take place right there that's up 4% and then Palenteer pushing to 190 folks look at that really pushing to 190 right here that's quite incredible 6% move on pound share that is green. Reddit, that's up 4%. Small caps getting a bid. That's how you know today's a bit more bullish than not. 1.38% on the small caps. IWM, that's green. Lyft up two. Cisco up two as well. AMX, they also had a great earnings. That one technologies up 11%. Microsoft fell below 500. Microsoft right here 502. All right. So even though Bitcoin and Ethereum are down, the broader part of the markets across semis, industrials, consumer staples, etc. They are going great. Wow. Take a look at this map, dude. Take a look at this map. What's red is consumer defensives. Healthc care's up, tech is up, software's up, cyclicals are up, and financials are very, very up. Um, not horrible. Not horrible. Oaklo goes red. Okay, so you do have some red on the nuclear names. Oaklo does have earnings tomorrow. Oaklo, yeah, very close to going red. 11282. This one bounced from like 101 last week. What about SMR? SMR is down 2%. Uh Bergkshire Hathaway is going to be coming out with their final shareholder letter or well Warren Buffett's final shareholder letter and um that will be out very soon later today. I mean it should be out like in the middle of the day maybe in a couple hours and so that'll be Warren Buffett's final essentially goodbye to all the shareholders and we're going to see what happens from there. Berkshire Hathway. That stock is down a bit right here in the pre-markets or as the market is open. I do not have a position in VIA yet. Uh we did a Twitter spaces on this. Uh this one's up 1.43%. I think the fundamentals look really good on this. I do not have a U position in it. But in terms of data centers and networking, this one definitely is looking very attractive, especially at the PE multiple that it's trading at. Google right here 287. That's up 3%. SoFi trying to finally get above 30. VG, did we make a move? VG still at 862 down from that 10% move or 15% move that we had in the morning. Beyond Meat also will have earnings today. That's up 4.3%. And you've got that one continuing to go green. Nvidia right there very close to 195. Fear and greed. We were at extreme fear on Friday. We are still at extreme fear. very close to going to regular fear, but we are still at extreme fear. By the way, uh 55% of you said meta at 625 over Amazon at 250. So, a decent chunk of people would be buying that meta dip. Why is nuclear down? I don't know. I know we have Oaklow earnings today. I mean, we we had some bearish headlines last week on just the progress of nuclear energy. We also had some bullish headlines. So, you know, a lot of this really comes down to like the stocks actual earnings growth, which we're going to get Oaklo earnings later tomorrow, but um the entire entire sector taking a little bit of a hit. Uh in terms of some call option flow, 250 AMD call expiring December December 12th. Someone just bought 2.6 million of that call. So, you got AMD at 244. you're definitely getting the call flow starting to come back in on a name like AMD. Um, you also had the Fed Daily who's one of the presidents of the Fed. He was pretty bullish this morning in terms of talking about a rate cut. Again, one of the fears in this market is that December you're not going to get a rate cut. Doesn't feel like that's going to be the case. Feds Daily said inflation has been pretty containing good prices. Rate cut so far is supported. Labor market keeps downward pressure on inflation. Policy in a good place. Can't take our eyes off inflation. Looking to see if productivity gains continue. all signs looking for a December rate cut which would be very exciting. Pounder right there 189. INQ did have a headline this morning. They had earnings last week. IQ is down 2.68%. Um their headline was the University of Chicago signed a landmark agreement to establish and Q center for engineering and science to accelerate quantum research. So, they're basically going to be taking a name of a center in the University of Chicago for quantum research. That stock right there down about 2.7%. SMCI, are we green on SMCI? Well, kind of green. 2.7. It was up a little bit more. That one's still red. BMR 53 or 43 4260. Again, ETH is kind of selling off right here along with Bitcoin. Kind of weird, right? Like over the past couple weeks whenever the S&P has started moving, Bitcoin and ETH have started actually selling off. Ironically, last week when the S&P was down almost 2%, Bitcoin, Ethereum were going up. So, a bit of wonky behavior from some of the crypto assets, but nonetheless, Ethereum right there at 3500, then Bitcoin 105. Why is Hood dropping again? Probably because crypto's down again. Hood is, as much as I love it, it is still very volatile and tied to the crypto markets. Crypto is a good chunk of their revenue. So, as crypto goes down, you know, you're going to see Robin Hood potentially take a dip. The the the weird thing about this though is that in October, you know, crypto was basically flat or I think it was net down from where yeah, Bitcoin started at 115, ended at like 102, and Robin's crypto volumes in October were greater than all of Q3. And usually that doesn't happen. Usually Robin Hood, you know, loses volumes when crypto goes down. But in this case, I guess they're benefiting from so many new users and so much more trading volumes that the volatility up or down actually ends up being a tailwind for them. So if that could continue to be the trend, it would it would it would change how historically Robinets traded, which is that when crypto goes down, trading volumes go down. Trading volumes are stable. If even if crypto goes down, that's not a horrible thing. So that was one thing that was important for Robin. Verizon right there at 40 bucks. You got Verizon a little bit green. Archer that's up 2%. Then GameStop slightly green as well. All right, let me put a poll right here in the chat. Same poll I asked on Friday, which is um do you trust this green? Do you trust this green? And not really saying do you trust this green for the rest of the year, but let's call it for a week timeline. Uh, do you think by the end of this week we get to hold this green? Do we get to hold S&P basically at 680 or do you think we get whipsaw throughout the week and we kind of get back into that 665 range? I think that's possible. I would wonder what the catalyst would be. I mean, the biggest catalyst would be that the shutdown doesn't actually end. Then it's definitely going to happen, but I very much doubt that would be the case, especially because you got those eight Democrats on board in the Senate. The other, I guess, catalyst could be a Trump tweet over something that no one's expecting. there's not that many earnings that the street has to watch out for. So, a whips saw back down to like S&P levels on Friday. I mean, you would have to get some really bad macro data. And even then, the bad macro data would support a rate cut, which would probably be support for equities. We should be getting macro data starting next week. If the if the government opens by Thursday, then starting next Monday, we should be getting a lot more data. I doubt we're going to get any jobs data this week unless we like reopen by tomorrow. So, it likely will take a week for that to happen. Tesla, I mean, look, Tesla is I just like that Elon's getting paid, and I kind of think that could be enough to keep the stock above 400. I know a lot of people think that, you know, it has room to fall back into the 390s, but Elon's incentivized. Elon is incentivized. In fact, he he quote tweeted some posts over the weekend um about how hard it would be for him to actually get to that trillion dollars. The company needs to do like 430 billion in adjusted IBIDA. It's like some ridiculous numbers when you look at what they need to put out and it's almost crazy to imagine that he actually does it. But if he does, he probably deserves that pay package and you know shareholders are definitely going to be on the ride of lifetime. Yeah, he said right there, "It sure is a tall order. Anyone can buy Tesla stock right now and come along for the ride. There will inevitably be some bumps along the way, but with a truly immense amount of work, I think these goals can be accomplished." Did Trump just tweet? Did he just tweet? Are we going red? S&P, we're not going red. No, there is a red candle though. Crypto's dumping. Oh boy. I just said maybe we stay green for the week unless Trump tweets something. And seems like we got a Trump tweet. Do we have something? No, we have a bunch of videos though. He just tweeted a video. Okay. He tweeted a video about uh he tweeted a video of a Lions football player doing a Trump dance. You guys know that classic Trump dance that he does all the time uh to that YMCA song after hitting a touchdown. And the reason I think he tweeted that video is because he kind of got booed yesterday at an NFL game and you could tell he's probably annoyed by getting booed. But as he was introducing himself there, you definitely had some of the American people at that game not the most excited about Trump. I state your name.
>> He also said I then state your name. So he was supposed to say I President Trump but ended up saying I then state your name. A little bit of a gaff by the president. I am say your namely swear support.
>> You can hear the booing, right? It's like pretty obvious that he's getting booed there. So, I think that's why he tweeted that to show that like, hey, people actually like me. I was surprised by that. I I didn't, you know, I didn't think he would get booed that heavy, but it wasn't the warmest reception. And I think that goes to a lot of the arguments that the Republicans are thinking about when it comes to affordability and why some of the Democrats won some of these elections last week is just like, hey, you know, maybe grocery prices aren't coming down, maybe electricity isn't coming down, and people aren't that happy about that. S&P 500, they're up 1.14. All right, so we do have a little bit of a crypto dump, not caused by a Trump tweet. I don't think that football video is the dump. Ethereum, though, getting hit. And then Bitcoin 106 to 104. 106 to 104. That's a $1,300 candle on Bitcoin. Nvidia 194. Palunteer. We did touch 190. We did touch 190. Not too bad. Back to the 190s for Palanteer. Dude, if we get back to 200 this week, that would be hilarious. That would definitely wouldn't be fun for Bur, but that would be hilarious. Grab. She's trying for six. She's trying for it. 597 right there. Would be nice to get a close above six today, but she is indeed trying. Again, the two announcements this morning were the potential go-to acquisition. And then second of all is an investment from Grab into a AV company called Vay Technology. And that could be the reason for it. Google right there, that's up three and a half%. and SoFi just below 30 again. Is the market open on Veterans Day? That is a good question. I actually don't know. That's on Tuesday. That's tomorrow, right? I think yes. Yes, the stock market is open on Veterans. Bond market will be closed. Okay. So, we will have our normal market open market closed tomorrow, but bond markets will be closed. Iran, are we still moving? That is up 5%. Wow. Oscar down 14%. Dude, this is one of the biggest reasons I didn't get into Oscar. Like one of the biggest reasons, and I'm not just saying this on a day that it's red. I'm just like in general, I don't understand healthcare and I don't understand the policy implications of healthcare. And I would hate to be like Oscar's super cheap. I'm super excited about it. And then you get whipsaw because you just don't because it is cheap objectively. Like the stock is ridiculous. They could grow like zero% for the next five years and it's still probably undervalued by 25 to 30%. problem is the healthc care [ __ ] is is like those policies really do implicate a company of their size and if you don't know them completely it's tough to invest in it and so I know it ran up to 25 last week but that was on the rumor that that subsidies would be extended now the rumor is that the subsidies aren't extended stocks down to 15 so if you're on the the ride for a name like that you just really got to understand the policy implications for a name like that same thing with BG right BG got that BP lawsuit and that hit it bad. Now, the earnings were really good today in terms of the numbers. Although VG is losing a lot of its green, only up 3%. But if you didn't know that they were going to get into a lawsuit with BP, you know, that could definitely be a reason why the stock could go a different direction. AMD trying to push 250 and then S&P 678.880. ASST, is that one getting a move? Strive 160, that's up 5.63%. I think Vive bought some more shares of this last week. So that could be getting it some momentum and then SoFi back to 30. What did you guys say on the poll? What are people saying? 59% say you trust this green. Okay, so about 40% of people are still not fully trusting the green that we have right here. Fed president saying inflation closer to 3% than 2% target. Yeah, I think this 2% number is going to turn into 3% next year. I mean, 2% seems like a dream at this point. We're not getting to 2% inflation. It's not happening. And so, if we don't have 2% inflation, whoever the new Fed president is, if they just change the target, is there that much of a difference between 2% and 3% realistically? I mean, there's a difference between 2% and 5% or 7%, but like 3%, I don't know if 1% makes that big of a deal. So, I think they're going to change the target. I think they're going to change the target and they're not going to, you know, keep the same type of approach that Pal's administration took over the past couple years. Him's right there losing some steam as well, 1.44%. Sigma looking good in the low 40s. I have no idea. Their earnings were good. Billion dollar run rate on just the DBA. Look, the company in this space that I'm interested in is Canva, not Figma. I think Figma's cool, but the sort of like big vision for Figma is not as exciting to me. Canva, I think it could have a billion users one day, and they're already 20% of the way there with 220 million. So, that's the name I'm looking for when they go public. Adobe, same boat. I mean, like, the numbers are very attractive on Adobe, but like the narrative with AI is just not there in my opinion. Now, Figma has a bit of a better narrative, but Figma is also a much smaller company. I think Canva goes public in 26. I really do. They already had secondary shares at like 45 billion. So, I do think they end up going public. ELF right there, 9%, you got to move on ELF as that one continues to go green. Um, still down from that 117 level and that one got hit last week. Chipotle is that one still getting hit. You got Steven Moran on in about an hour. So, we'll listen to him, see what he's thinking about Ray Co. Chipotle still at 30.86 and that's up 1%. Mid, did you buy the elf dip? No, I did not buy the elf dip. Uh again with ELF first of all I don't understand the company well enough to just buy the dip because it's down 30%. Although you know oftentimes if it's a quality company down 30% even if you're looking for a trade you can definitely buy a dip and probably get rewarded now with some names that has not worked out this year 11 being one of the examples of it. Um but they said tariffs are affecting them and the market said okay here's down 30%. So, I need to go through their call and see how serious are the tariffs because they still beat on EPS by like 15%. So, for a company that beat on EPS but then made one comment about tariffs and lost 30% of their market cap, it's kind of weird and it goes to show the street is not having that much trust in this company. So, it's one of those things that I would need to take a broader look at. Um, spy puts are being bought for 1121 and 1219 at 645. All right. So, you're getting some option flow on the S&P. Wow. Decent amount of puts. About 7 million of puts for 645 December 19th just got bought. Obviously, that could also be more of a hedge, but you do have those puts. Wow. Paler 190.5. 190.5. What a recovery from 169 last week. I mean, if Bur's still in it, he's not going to be happy about it. Kind of have a feeling Bur's out of it based on how he's tweeting, but if he got out of it to make a couple bucks, then he created all this hoopla for no reason because he obviously was not getting ready to hold for a long time. If he's in it, then he's probably annoyed. Uh, let's get an update right here on the shutdown and then and we'll keep going from there. includes agriculture, SNAP, veterans programs for the rest of the 2026 fiscal year. For other programs, it just continues current funding for until January 30th. The agreement also reverses those attempted firings of federal employees during the shutdown. It will also give federal employees back pay. We're hearing that that could happen very quickly after the government reopens. And Democrats are promised a vote on extending those healthc care tax credits. Now, to be clear, many Democrats oppose the deal. They've spoken out against it for not offering a more concrete agreement on those tax credits, but Senator G. Shaheen argued last night that this was the best offer that Democrats would get.
>> This was the only deal on the table. It was our best chance to reopen the government and immediately begin negotiations to extend the ACA tax credits that tens of millions of Americans rely on to keep costs down. We are waiting, of course, to see exactly what the next steps are going to be and when they are going to occur. We have heard from some sources that the Senate could vote as soon as today. House could come back a little bit later this week. And of course, now the big question is, are they going to be able to move forward on those Affordable Care Act tax credits? I just spoke with Senator Tim Kaine. He said he's heard from a lot of Republicans who want to find some path forward on those. But of course, remember this is Obamacare and a lot of Republicans, particularly those in the House, do not want to be able to vote on something that's going to continue that in any way, shape, or form, guys.
>> So, we're waiting what next, Emily? On on a full Senate vote and then the House has to vote. Yes, Sarah. So, there's going to be a vote. There might actually be a couple votes in the Senate. Basically, to move forward, they need to come up with a timing agreement. That means you get need to get 100 people to agree on something. So, we are waiting for that to happen and for next steps. We can say that the Senate is back in. And GOP leadership told House members last night to expect to be in this week.
>> So, that vote should happen hopefully in the next couple days. Palunteer 191, baby. Oh man, shout out to shout out to Mr. Bur or as Arie says, Bernie right here in the chat. Uh but look, it looks like that vote's going to happen pretty soon and hopefully in the next 24 hours and if it does happen, maybe the government's open in the next couple days, which would be great to see. Pounder there. 191 continuing to go green. Nvidia not stop. Wow. Nvidia highs of the day 19550. Dude, if Nvidia and Pounder both get back to 200, that would be incredible. And again, that goes to the point I was making on Friday. It's just like I think these two names are so intertwined with not just AI, but the entire stock market, Nvidia for sure, because it's 8% of the S&P and Palinger is just like one of those household trading names now, even if it's not that much of the S&P. That if you go short or you go bearish on those names, you're essentially going bearish on the market. There's no world where the S&P is up 10% but Nvidia and Pounder are down 50%. There's just no world or even you know 25%. Like they're going to move the broader market with them. So I think Bur going back bearish means he would have to be bearish AI in general. And I don't know if this is the time to get super bearish on AI. Bitcoin trying to make a recovery off 104. A little bit of a bounce to 1052 and then Ethereum still stuck at 3500. Let's check on Quantum. DWave 31. That's up 6.3. Not too bad. Oo NQ is actually red. And Regetti, which has earnings today, that's up 2.3. So you got D-Wave up and uh Regetti, which has earnings today. Open door again, they got that $8 target by JP Morgan, and that's why that stock 14%. This one got to $4.77. So, a massive move from the absolute bottoms from Friday, 750, that $8 target by JP Morgan. That was very important for them. Also, uh, got to give credit where credit is due. Bur can't really get the credit yet because it seems like he ended up shorting or buying puts on a name that just kept putting up good earnings and it's not necessarily working out. But, Chainos did end up having a really good short on Micro Strategy. So Chaino shorted Micro Strategy earlier in the year and um his simple thesis was buy Bitcoin, short MSTR and it worked. They made a good chunk of money in his fund. His clients have done very well in this trade. They've gotten out of it as of last week, which I think is the right time to close the trade because if Bitcoin does make a move higher, then MSTR probably makes a move higher as well. But I mean MSR touched 220. If he actually closed it anywhere around that range, he got the bottom and he got the top. So you did have a pretty successful short on MSTR as this week it's just not or this year it's just not been doing that well. My strategy now 244 that's up about 1.18%. Do you think pounder will split in the future? I think eventually they will split but it has to take some time. I do not think they're splitting anywhere near $200 $300. I think you got to get closer to that $400 $500 range for them to even think of a split. So I don't think it'll happen in this range. Grab right there trying to get over six. We have not touched six yet. 599. That's up 7.64%. House Speaker Johnson, he wants a vote as soon as possible in the House on passing a bill to reopen the government. Okay, that's good to hear. So, you got Speaker Mike Johnson signaling that it is time to open the government. S&P is up 1.17. That's a big move on the S&P. Let's go to Johnson real quick and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Later today, so stay tuned for more. Thanks so much. uh we'll be uh there'll be long days and long nights here uh for the foreseeable future to make up for all this lost time that was imposed upon us. I I want to I want to close uh in with with something that's important. I think it's important to say that I this is genuine. I mean this sincerely. We applaud the seven Senate Democrats and one independent senator who did the right thing. They they decided to put principle over their their personal politics and and my my urgent plea of all my colleagues in the House and that means every Democrat in the House is to to think carefully, pray uh and and finally do the right thing and help us to bring an end to the pain of the American people. This has gone on too long. Too many people have suffered and it's long overdue. That's the update I wanted to give you this morning. There are probably lots of questions, but I'm going to get a lot of my own questions answered later today, so stay tuned for more. Thanks so much.
>> Okay, we should be hopefully getting a vote pretty soon based on what Speaker Johnson is saying. S&P still 678.889 right there. Grab did touch six back to six Dellores. That's up 7.76% on the day. And to close above six today would also be very nice to see. App that's up 6%. Great day for app loving. Circle's up three. Pinterest is up two and then nphase up 2% as well. Poly market has us on November 14th reopening the government about an 80% chance which would be about 4 days from now. It seems relatively accurate. It would take a couple days to get the vote through. Hopefully it's earlier than probably by Thursday that would take place. What else we got? Xpang is up 13%. I've heard more people getting excited about this name. I have not looked into it. Uh I understand it's Chinese company. I have to do a lot more work to understand it. But I do know there are some people that are getting a bit more excited about Xpang right there. 13.2% 2540 on the day for this one. Honest, is that one making a move? Honest was at 285. Honest 265. Okay, that one's back down. That one fell pretty badly after earnings as well. Joby, that one moving with Archer. Wow, Joby 7%. Now Job's been kind of stuck in this 13 to 18 range for a while, but it is at 7%. Tessy right here, 443, Pouncer 191, Nvidia 195, Tesla 443. So all these highf flyers continuing to get some green after last week. Even Googs, dude, trying to get back to 290 would be very nice to see if GooG can hold 290. Espang is working on different humanoid robotics. Yeah, I mean, look, there's a lot of Chinese companies working on them. Um, obviously Xpang is one of the bigger ones in the space. I believe they're also obviously working on EVs as well. Um, the humanoid robotic stuff is is is really important because you've got, you know, Elon and some of the projections he's putting out in terms of numbers. I mean, it really does feel like Tesla truly will become the world's most valuable company if they succeed in what they're doing with robotics. So, obviously, you got a lot of Chinese players going after it. I wonder if the Chinese players, even if they undercut the prices of like an Optimus, how much they'll be able to sell just given, you know, the robots are from China. I don't know how many people want the liability of that. But domestically, there's a huge market, billions of people that probably want to buy those robots. Metaight, they're bouncing from 629 to 634. And that's going green as well. What is the purpose of a humanoid robot? I think at least in a warehouse it is to do the things that humans have been doing for you know many many decades. S&P 679 which is sort of that backbreaking type of work. Now in your home I'm not fully sold on the robots are going to do the dishes and all this. Like that's cool and that would be nice. I just think that's far away. But I think in an Amazon warehouse in a year the robots could actually be producing value and being effective eventually in your home, you know, that would be nice. But um I do think for a company like Amazon increasing those operating margins which you know are below 15% getting them anywhere near 20% over the next decade, you're going to need some level of automation and that's where the robots become a lot more exciting. Bring up the Xpang iron robot vid. Is that a new one that came out? I don't think I've seen this one. Xpang iron robot. Oh [ __ ] What is this? I have never seen this one. Hold on.
>> Ion comes to prove it is itself. But I believe the future will prove that this self-verification of the robot will promote the healthier and more vigorous development of the entire Chinese robot industry. If so, it will be worthwhile.
>> Bro,
>> our team had intense arguments and discussions about how it can prove itself. Let's first invite the staff. So, we found a forced, no, a way. We want to use scissors to open below the robot's legs. We will see that this robot has skin, muscles, and bones. before us. We ourselves have not tried cutting its skin and muscles while the robot is powered on. So, in the last hour, we decided to do this. Our robot team was very opposed. They were worried it might fall. They were worried it might get damaged.
>> Yeah, it's a real robot.
>> Look at that, bro. That's crazy. That's not a human, dude. How's that a human? Unless it's a human with no legs. And that's wild, bro. Oh my goodness. This Terminator reality is going to happen. It's an ampute. It might be an ampute. You're right. It could be. I think we all have trust issues after the X1 robot or the Neo robot completely lied to everybody with their video and they said that it was all autonomous. And then when you looked at like when the Wall Street Journal like actually interviewed the guy, he was like, "Oh yeah, it's teleprompted and there's a guy who's looking into your house through the camera." It's like, "All right, dude. Get out of here. It's not real. It's not real." Poucher, we did not touch 192 yet. 19. No, we did. 192. There you go. 19212. Uh, let me bring up Weeble because Robin is being a little slow on the price action. It looks like we touched 192. There you go. Yeah, 19230 on the day now at 1918 189. All right, I'll look at Xbank. I'll see if there's anything interesting there. It is China. That's one of the risks always, but you know, Chinese companies have done pretty well over the past year. So, I think the bigger risk in 2024 when China was like deep in recession, that has started to change. It's not like their economy is amazing, but it's not like as bad as it was back in Julaba got to 50 bucks, bro, with like 200 billion in cash. That's how you know how bad it was back in July of 24. But you have seen a big of a change. Molina's down 4%. UNH is down half a percent. Oscar is down 14%. Micro Strategy struggling to stay green. Nvidia about to hit 196. Baby, look at that. Nvidia and Pounder both going higher. AMD trying to get 246. Trying to get 246. Um, Monday had a good earnings. Does anyone use Monday in their job? Monday, it's like a project management software. They beat on the top and the bottom. Stocks down 16. I guess something their guidance wasn't the best, but they beat by a pretty healthy margin on EPS and revenue. But that one got hit down about 17% right here. Coreweave 125 call about a million dollars of premium for November 28th which is in about a couple weeks. Again, they do have earnings after the bell. Cor right there 107 up 3% on the day. Um Tesla still making its move. move open door again up 15% is up 1.2 AMD up five pounder at 7.6 Tesla 441 very nice to see this move on Tesla as well I mean you're seeing a general risk on appetite across the market micron hitting alltime highs Roblox is up is up 2.8 And then Google back to 288 again. I'm wondering what could happen this week to really take us off this trajectory. And I'm not sure there's an easy answer. I mean, even Oracle is looking more attractive, dude. Oracle is right back to 243. It was at 350. So, a lot of it has been digested, which is not the worst thing to see. Corey right there 107 and then open door up 15. Couple you say we use Monday at my job. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I remember seeing their commercials like 5 years ago. Monday was like heavily advertising as like an alternative to Atlassen and Jira and all these different stocks or different project management tools, but down 17% is a bit weird. Uh, gold and silver are green. You're getting some move there. No Trump tweets. No Trump tweets. Yeah, JD Vance is going to be live in a bit. He's giving a speech. Um, let's take a look at some retail data. Let me pull this up. Although we don't have the government reopen, we do have some thirdparty retail consumer data. Dualingo continuing to drop. Let's pull that up real quick and see if we can get some updates on the state of the consumer. Let's pull that up right here. actual credit card spending data from Affinity Solutions. It shows retail X auto and gas up 06 compared with a 0.7% decline in September. The year-over-year rate edging down to 5% from 54. We take out restaurants as well to get a core retail measure. It's also up 06 from a 05 decline. The year-over-year rate dropping to 49 from 57. Still in pretty good territory there. NRF economists note recent economic data has been mixed. Yet consumer spending remains solid, supported by wage growth outpacing inflation, historically low unemployment, and wealth effects from strong stock market valuations. Again, it's weird. Uber said the consumer's fine. A firm, very important BNPL company, they said the consumer's fine. Sweet Green last week, I forgot to talk about them. They said the consumer is horrible. And then Chipotle obviously said the consumer is not doing that good. So, you have some mixed data from a variety of different companies. And I don't know if there's anything fully conclusive yet on the state of the consumer.
>> The monitor has been far more volatile this year coming up amid declining measures of consumer sentiment. Inflation still high for goods and tariffs that have prompted some front running by shoppers and then coming off that front running. Nine of 12 sectors in October though were higher led by digital products up 2% and clothing and accessories up 1.4. Restaurants and bars, food and beverage, health and personal care. They were all in good territory there. But building and garden supplies down 08. That was one of just three negative sectors we have including gas station sales. The critical questions in retail right now. How good's inflation tariffs and initial signs of a cooling job market will affect holiday spending.
>> The holiday spending stuff is important. Also the public perception by the way pounder 192 again is also going to be really important. I mean you had some highlevel Republican officials come out the other day and said that they don't think affordability is on a good path. then you could imagine Trump is probably pissed off that they're making those arguments because that's making the administration look bad. But I think that is going to be the key key argument going into 2026 for the midterms is what is the state of affordability. And the more people think that affordability is going in the right direction, the more they might be happy with the administration, the more they don't think it is. You know, maybe that is going to be the broader issue going into the midterms. Pounder 19250, Nvidia 196. My goodness. Not bad, dude. Not bad to see. Affordability has always been bad. You know, it's a great point. Affordability has never been amazing. So, I think that with with the, you know, Mundani campaign about making it such a big issue. It's become sort of mainstream and commercialized as a as a talking point. But it's not like for the past few years, affordability was great either, especially when since we've had record inflation. So, it is going to be kind of wild how the Democrats and Republicans both try to market the issue, but it seems like that is becoming the main issue. We're going to have to see how people think about it. Pounder right there pushing 193 and 19260. Again, Instacart beat on earnings. Another one of these consumer names that's showing good progress even if Sweet Green is not. Sweet Green is a salad shop. Nardis or notice, Navitas, that's up 18%. on the day blockbuster consumers are watching less movies. Yes, you could definitely make the argument that no one wants to eat at Chipotle and that's why they're having some pain, which I hope the best case scenario is that people just don't like Chipotle. The worst case scenario is the average consumer cannot afford Chipotle. So, I'd rather it be that people just want to eat other types of food. But, I mean, that's something that we're going to need a lot more data to see. Wow. Pound chair 193. Oh my goodness. Bur if he's still got the position, there's no way that he should be happy about this because there's no way he shorted above this price. There's just no way unless he shorted at 200, but there's we know that's not possible. I kind of think he's out of the position, bro. Given his tweets, I kind of think he got the hell out and now he's just trolling. But if he if he took a billion dollar put for freaking a couple million dollars of gains. I mean just what was the point of even doing that pounder? Like really what was the point of doing that? What was the point of putting a put on pounder at 185 or 187 just for it to go to 172 and then get out of it? Like that's a billion dollars to make a couple million. That makes no sense. It's like you would imagine there's so many better ways you could go long on a company and make better returns unless he thought it was legit going to collapse and then he saw those earnings and he was like there's no way. Baler 19320 Nvidia going for 197. Nvidia going for 197. He was hoping to create a wave of shorts. Yeah, probably. I mean, obviously, I think he definitely wanted some more media attention on it, and I don't know if he got the wave of shorts to jump in. Yes, I understand it was 1 billion notional value, but the point is it's a very large bet and there's no way the bet could have been uh uh gains of that 1 billion of notional because he had to take the put position on during a price range of around 170 to 185 just based on the time at which the put was disclosed. The lowest he could have made the put was at 140 which means he's deeply underwater. The highest he could have put it was maybe at 190, but we touched it for a brief second in September, so there's no way I think he got 190. So, it had to be around 175 to 185, which means it's going against him. Um, I am on the sidelines of the American consumers decided to not overpay for trash food, Chipotle, McDonald's, etc. We ate this crap because it was cheap. You know, that's another argument that a lot of this food is just not being seen as like productive food to eat anymore. So, there could be a health argument there. Granted, the lower end of the consumer, you know, when you're in that position, you might not be caring that much about health, which would be the, you know, the bearish argument about the consumer, but that is a point that some people might just not want to put that in their bodies anymore. Oklahoma right here, that's down 1%. Chime, that one was up 17% on Friday, so that one got a big move. And then VG, wow, VG goes red. I'm going to talk to Chris and Matt Money. I think they'll probably do a video talking about VG's earnings. And we'll see. Maybe this is the time to make a position in VG after going down 3% on what looks like a pretty good earnings. But VG is down. Lemonade. Are we getting some green on Lemonade? Lemonade is green. Up 6%. Chad says it's called cooking. That is true. It is. Yo, speaking of cooking, my mom, so I went home for the weekend. My mom taught me how to make these wings that she got. She these frozen wings from Costco. She taught me a certain style of air frying them without using any oil or preservatives or anything like that. And goodness, these wings were amazing. And I mean, I know how to make a couple of things. Fish is one of the first things she taught me how to make. But these wings, I think, are going to be one of my new go-to meals. Like seven of them. It's like 350 calories. And she put some She taught me how to do the seasoning for them as well. Like they're really freaking good. And it's like very, very healthy. I couldn't believe how good they were when I was eating them. I was like, "Goodness, these are like legit." Like I would eat this with rice every day with some cucumbers and like some vegetables and boom, that's my lunch. So yeah, I you know obviously do want to learn how to cook a lot more and that was one of the things over the weekend that I liked.
>> You eat meat? Yes. People dude people think because I'm Indian I don't eat meat. People are always so surprised like you eat meat. It's like yes I eat meat. Like yes I eat pork. I eat chicken. I eat everything. I don't really care. People are always so shocked. Like this guy has a beard. There's no way he could be eating food. He's disrespecting his culture. Now, when my grandmother comes over from India, am I eating meat in front of her? You bet your ass I'm not. A because I don't want to hear a lecture. B because she's probably going to start crying. So, like, then I don't eat any meat. But on a day-to-day basis, beef, yeah, all that stuff, dude. I love steak. Like, I don't know. It's kind of hard to be vegetarian. I don't think I've ever tried it, but I do think it would be a bit harder to do. That pounder right there 19350. She's pushing 194. She's pushing 194. Um, I know she can hear you. She does watch the stream sometimes. Open Door, that's up 12%. Nobo's up a little bit. And then Coreweave up 2.8. Do we have any macro data today? Uh 10 years up a little bit, gold's up a little bit. No macro data. We did get that consumer confidence last week and that was ugly on I know it's only the only survey like 300 people, but it was the worst we've had in a year. That's another reason why the markets probably took a hit, but then this shutdown headline kind of went the opposite said direction, which was more bullish than not. Um, yeah, you're not seeing a ton of different pieces of macro data. We looked at this chart yesterday. Gold funds hit 17 billion in ETFs last week or last month, which was crazy. So, you got a lot more money going into gold. We also, you know, last night we talked about AI debt issuances and why they are starting to accelerate. Obviously, Oracle's corporate bonds, Meta's, Google's corporate bonds are starting to increase the overall amount of corporate bonds that exist. They're now at about 25 billion. That's up 112% from last year at 12 billion. So, AI data center debt is continuing to increase. Uh oh, we got a Trump tweet. Okay, here we go. All air traffic controllers must get back to work now with a bunch of exclamation points. Uh, for those air traffic controllers who were off who were great patriots and didn't take any time off for the Democrat shutdown hoax, I'll be recommending a bonus of $10,000 per person for distinguished service to our country. For those that did nothing but complain and took time off even though everyone knew they would be paid in full shortly into the future, I am not happy with you. Um, you didn't step up to help the USA against the fake Democrat attack that was only meant to hurt our country. You will have negative mark, at least in my mind, against our record. Okay. If you want to leave service in the near future, please do not hesitate to do so with no payment or severance of any kind. You will be quickly replaced by true patriots who will do a better job on the brand new state-of-the-art equipment, the best in the world that we are in the process of ordering. The last administration wasted billions of dollars trying to fix antiquated junk. They had no idea what they were doing. Again, to our great American patriots, God bless you. I won't be able to send you money fast enough. To all others, report to work immediately. God bless America. President Donald Trump. Okay. If uh you showed up to work in ATC, looks like you're getting a $10,000 bonus penalty right there. 193. And if you didn't, Trump is not happy with you. That is the latest tweet that we have right there. S&P 678 just below that 679 level. All right. Well, that at least signals that the shutdown's definitely over and this vote is going to be passed by the House, which is why Trump is even, you know, putting out the argument that it's time for people to come back to work. All right, that's what you got. That is what you got from Trump. Uh, the other thing that we didn't talk about yesterday that Trump floated, this idea of a um of a um 50-year mortgage, I don't know how feasible that idea is. Obviously, he's trying to get mortgages to become more affordable in this country because right now, again, going back to this question of affordability. It's becoming a big thing. If you look at the data from a just pure mathematical perspective, it looks like a 50-year mortgage would decrease the average mortgage by 10% a month. So instead of 3,000 mortgage, you'd pay 2,600. Don't know if that's enough to almost double the amount of time you're going to be stuck with a mortgage. So yeah, I don't know if that's the best idea. I mean, some people compared it to renting from a bank for 50 years. I mean, at what point do you get to own the equity and the ownership of the house if you have to pay back the interest for 50 years? Like, I don't know. We're gonna see. But it is one idea that Trump has been floating around. It would be very good for the banks. That's for damn sure. It'd be very good for the banks. Like, would anyone realistically sign up for a fifth year mortgage? I I just I don't know. And if the 10ear doesn't come down, I don't think the fifth year mortgage is going to make that much of a meaningful change in terms of actual interest rates. So, I think that's the biggest thing that the market has to worry about. Nebia, right? They're up 3.4 and then Bitcoin 105.5. I would do it if I was six year old. Yeah, 56. You got you own your house. It's a good idea. But if you're like 35, you know, 50-year mortgage, I don't know. I would imagine, dude, we've seen like freaking 15-year car loans starting to ramp up over the past year, which is why all these auto delinquencies have started to scale up as well. So, it would not be crazy to imagine that people would take that option. Question is, just is it economical
>> and I think that's the most important thing to see from this. Mitt, are you invested in real estate? No, I am not. Real estate is the one sector I really don't have any exposure to and I probably should get some exposure over the next coming years. I just kind of I want to wait it out a little bit. I have a bunch of private investments. I think I could liquidate those in the next couple years and that could be more of the money I use versus taking it out of the stock market. But I really am clueless when it comes to real estate. I mean, I've got to do a lot of work to understand that entire sector. And I know people say you can own REITs and stuff like that, but at its core, I just have to like go back to the basics and understand real estate. The past couple years has been dedicated to to trying to understand the markets. Robin right there 13584 and then meta 633. Real estate is not where the growth is at. Well, I said that on Twitter when Nvidia was at 180 and I got a lot of [ __ ] for saying that I'd rather own Nvidia than a house over the next five years. I still feel the same. I think in the next five year and I I know you can't live in your Nvidia. I get it. I understand. I'm just saying if you're able to rent and the rent is a reasonable amount of your income and you're able to, you know, be able to put a lot more money into something that's growing, I kind of would like having Nvidia over a house over the next five years. feel like it's not the worst idea, but if you have a family, you have kids, you know, it's it goes into different nuances of of an individual person. I ran right there, that's up 2.4% than SMCI getting a little bit more of a move. That's up 3%. Chad says both. Yeah, I mean obviously both is it's just like when you're when you're in the wealth building phase and you have to make a decision. you don't have to make a decision, but if you, you know, theoretically wanted to consolidate versus diversify, the question is which one would you do? I don't think there's a right or wrong answer. I just feel like I understand equities better. And so for me, it just makes a bit more sense. And also, you know, my I've seen my dad he my dad owns has owned real estate his whole life. And I've seen the return that he's been able to generate off that. I've seen the way he's navigated with taxes and banks and stuff. like I just it's it's it's it's easier for me to understand the equity markets over real estate and I feel like if you you know get a nest egg from the equity markets then investing into real estate is better but obviously for the long term both is important I just don't know like what if Nvidia Nvidia is what five trillion let's say in five years it becomes 10 trillion and I know that's crazy to say but let's imagine that does happen I mean are homes going to double in the next five That's the broader question and I know they did from 2020 to 2025, but obviously we printed a lot of money which kind of helped with that. Is there enough organic growth to make that happen? AMD, are you green? Papa John's is halted. Why is Papa John's halted? Oh, well, they were going to get bought out at 65, right? So, you might have some people piling into that trade right here for Papa John's. Um, Papa John's close to $65 per share private takeover. Wasn't it Apollo who wanted to buy them out? It was one of these private equity firms. Trieritisen Capital. Okay. Papa John's Halton. There you go. Rock Lab does indeed have earnings today. This will be a big one. We'll cover it on the close. We'll see what they get. 52 right here. AMD as well making a move 248 that's up 6.39%. Obviously, I think there's also different times to make these investments. I mean, when Pounder was six, you know, and you could either buy a new house in 2022 or buy Palunteer, obviously buying Pounder was a better decision. Now granted, you needed a bare market to kind of create those opportunities, but if you had a house that was down, you know, 20 30% from the highs versus Palenter down 80%. Taking a shot on a company like Paler or a Robin, I mean, there's so many of these names that have just massively changed people's lives. And if they had put that money into real estate during that time, you know, people say there's never a wrong time to buy real estate. That is true in a vacuum. But in 2022, buying Nvidia, Pounder, Robin Hood, SoFi, Tesla, like all of those over a house probably was a better idea. So, I guess it really is also dependent on kind of the trajectory of growth that a lot of these companies and then, you know, that had to deal with the AI revolution. I mean, Chachi going viral, like if that didn't happen, you know, those returns probably wouldn't be there. But that was also really important. Uh AMD trying to crack 250. Oracle as well at 243 247.88 on AMD. Is Oaklo dead? I don't know. But they have earnings today. I mean street's not really expecting much because they don't make any money. But 10874 Oaklo still up 350% for the year. 3.5% down on the day. Wendy's is down 4% as well. I think Wendy's is falling with some of these consumer narratives around Chipotle, Sweet Green, etc. And Wendy's is getting hit. Hims is going red. All right, so you're seeing some red candles across the board, but not in Nvidia and Palunteer. Those names are holding up. 19740 on Nvidia and 191.81 for Palanteer. Archer, that's up three. Grab just below six. Abselera had a crappy earnings last week. That one fell about 30%. SoFi 2987. MP62, that's up seven. Then Weeble just below 10. Wendy's is closing locations. Really? Is that the case? Wendy's closing Oh, wow. Wendy's closing 300 stores. Oh, that headline came out on Friday. I missed it. Wow. That's not good. Wendy's told investors on Friday 6,000 locations they they would close about 360 stores. The goal is to address and fix those restaurants. When we look at the system today, we have some restaurants that do not elevate the brand and are a drag from a franchise financial performance perspective. You know, Wendy's is in stark contrast to something like Raising Canes, which I know it doesn't have as many locations, but if you look into the life of the Raising Canes founder, who still runs it to this day, I mean, my goodness, does that guy know how to build culture and know how to expand the business? The Wendy's brand is just, you know, do people actively eat at Wendy's? Like, when's the last time people went to a Wendy's? I mean, I feel like Wendy's is better than a lot of the other food chains. It feels like it's more fresh, but I don't know if it's like a growth story at its core. Open Door 12%, Novo Flat, and then pounder 192. Irwin says, "Right by my apartment." Tanner won't get Dude, Tanner gets burger patties. He doesn't get the bread. He just eats the patty. Uh, I do think Wendy's chicken nuggets are better than everyone else's. Well, a decent amount of you guys saying you eat Wendy's. That's weird, though. Closing up 300. Now, they're they're painting this in like the the the restaurants do not elevate the brand. Are they saying that there's a demand problem or are they saying that those restaurants in particular are just not performing that well? And if they're not performing well, is it because of the culture of those restaurants or is it because of a demand problem? I think that's something to dive into to find out. But Wendy's right there down about 5%. Uh Chipotle, that one still flat on the day. What do you think about Weeble? I still don't get why people love Weeble, dude. I know that there's a big Twitter audience around it. Thanks for the super chat, AR. If you look at Weeble's growth, dude, there's there the growth that you need to get this valuation to be significantly higher is not there in my opinion. And I think it's a red flag when all the weeble bulls on Twitter are saying that the CEO needs to be fired. Like if that's your best bet, I don't know. It's not that exciting. So, do I think it's cheap at a $4 billion market cap and could it pump to eight billion? Like, yeah, of course. I just I don't know what the catalyst is for Weeble. But I mean, yeah, like a couple years from now, it's probably more than nine bucks. It's just will I make that move towards the end of the year. I am using Weeble right now. The irony is that Robin Hood's charts end up not working many days and I have to use Weeble. But like the actual growth of the company, if you look at their earnings, it's like we've been through it for three quarters. There's it's not good. Like it's just not. And when you compare it to other brokerages, it's really not good. So, I think people like it because they think it's like a mini Hood and that it could make that same move. And like it could potentially, but again, Hood went through a lot of retransformation to get to where it is today. And you just don't necessarily see that movable, but then again, it's four billion bucks. Obviously, could make a big move. Let's go to the stock draft. See how we're doing there. We were in first place as of Friday. See if we can continue being in first place. Okay, we're holding up. Pounder and Hood are helping. So Matt's at 27, I'm at 38, Steve's at seven, Tanner's at 21, and Chris is at five. Even 60% down on Dolingo is holding us up because of Hunter Hood and Tesla. Then you have AMD and Nebus. And then Grab up 26% now. So, we are holding on to that. S&P a little bit of a red candle. 677 still up 1% on the day. Nvidia selling off a little bit as well. Are the Bitcoin miners selling off? They are. Wow. I ran losing a lot of its move. Okay, we're seeing some red candles, folks. Maybe 10:45 slam. And the red candles are off of a high. The the green is still pretty good. AMD up five, SoFi up five as well, Google up three. But you are indeed seeing some red. Oh, we have another Trump tweet. Oh boy, here we go. All money left over from the $2,000 payments made to low and middle inome USA citizens from the massive tariff income pouring into our country from foreign countries, which will be substantial, will be used to substantially pay down national debt. Thank you for your attention to this matter. What is he talking about? All money left over from the $2,000 payments made to low and middle inome USA citizens will be. So, are we really doing STEMI checks? Are we really doing Again, the big the big announcement yesterday was he tweeted a $2,000 dividend will be given to low-income Americans, which Bent had to clarify and say that that's not actually a stimulus check. But now this tweet, let me read it again. All money left over from the $2,000 payments made to low and middle inome USA citizens, which to me says, hey, we're taking in all this tariff revenue, we're going to pay out 2,000 to everybody, and then whatever is left, he says, quote, which will be substantial, will be used to substantially pay down our national debt. So, we're going to print 400 billion and then whatever is left, we're going to pay off the debt. But the tariff revenue is only bringing in 300 billion. So, I'm so confused. I like I really am confused. The only way this makes sense is if you make the income threshold significantly lower than 75,000 because then you would have to target like a 100 million Americans, which still is a decent chunk of money you're printing, or I guess you could say reallocating from the tariff revenue. But we're only bringing in 350 billion from the tariff revenue. So the amount we send out has to be less than 300 billion. Which even if it is 200 billion is his argument. Hey, we're taking it 300 billion. We're going to give 200 to low and middle inome Americans and then the other 100 billion will pay down our debt. Hey man, I guess that's the way you make the math work. Again, this was Bes yesterday when he was asked about that $2,000 dividend. You know, it could the the $2,000 dividend could come in lots of forms in lots of ways, George. U you know, it could be just the the tax decreases that we are seeing on the president's agenda. You know, no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, deductibility of auto loans. So, you know, those are substantial deductions that, you know, are being financed in the tax bill.
>> S.
>> Okay. So, let me ask a poll right here in the chat. Do we do we think Bent's version of the 2000 is what Trump is talking about? Aka all of the policies in the big beautiful bill will inevitably lead to like quote unquote savings of 2,000 per year for low and middle middle inome Americans or is it a legit STEMI check? What is this 2000 a real STEMI check uh savings from the BBB? Cuz obviously Bes talking about basically savings with this no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, etc. This Trump tweet looks like it's a legit check, bro. And if it's a legit check that he's going to frame as a tariff dividend, I mean, we're going higher. We're definitely going higher if he's giving out 2,000 bucks to everybody. Oh my goodness. Is he even allowed to? Doesn't Congress have to approve? There's no way he can executive order give out $2,000 checks. He would need to get Congress. And I don't know if he's going to get the Democrats to be on board with that. Like in CO, the reason everyone came together was because it was a global pandemic and everyone was scared. I don't know if you can do that through executive order. Here's an update on the fifth year mortgage. Let's get some coverage on that, then we'll keep going from there. In response, FHFA director Bill Py, who oversees Fanny May and Freddy Mack, posted that they are quote working on it and that it would be quote a complete gamecher. Now, the purpose of a longerterm mortgage would be to lower the monthly payment for homeowners. The longer the term of the loan, the smaller the principal needed each month to pay it off in full. Now, using the latest latest median sale price of a home from September, that's $415,200 according to the realtors, and the current interest rate of about 6.3% according to Mortgage News Daily. On a 30-year fixed loan with a 20% down payment, the monthly payment of just principal and interest would be $2,56. If you raise the length to 50 years at the same interest rate, that payment would be $1,823. And that's a savings of $233 per month. Homeowners, however, would not build equity as quickly because they're
>> I don't know if people take on 20 years of debt for saving 200 bucks a month. I mean, it'll be an option for some people to choose, but I don't think it would be the most compelling offer.
>> Principal payments would be smaller and the amount of interest paid to lenders would be 40% higher. Now, the real question though is can Fanny and Freddy do this? Analysts say it is possible, but a 50-year mortgage does not currently meet the definition of a qualified mortgage under the DoddFrank Act, which provides investors with a backup from Fanny and Freddy if the loan should go bad. But regulators were given the authority to change that in order to ensure mortgage affordability. That however could take up to a year according to Jared Seabourg of TD Cowan. Seabourg notes that we still just really need more housing because without more home prices will continue to be inflated no matter what the mortgage rate is. Guys, back to you.
>> Yeah, which comes back to some of his other um you know efforts to try to put pressure the home builders to build more. So, do we have any idea, Diana, what the rate would be for a 50-year mortgage, for instance, compared to a 30-year?
>> That that is an excellent question because mortgage rates really depend on demand from the investors in the product. But I what I can tell you is that the average rate currently on the 15-year fix loan, that is a shorter term loan, is actually 66 basis points lower than the 30-year fix, which would imply that a 50-year mortgage would carry a larger interest rate in order for investors to be able to get the money they need. But that's the question going forward. Would it really be cheaper? And would that math that I just did on that monthly payment actually be that if the mortgage rate was higher? It would not be. Yeah, none of it would make any sense then if that was the case.
>> Correct. I mean, what really is some people are saying that a 50-year fix is kind of like an interestonly mortgage because you're paying so much more interest than they're actually paying equity. And the fact is that most people don't keep their home for 30 years even. Would they keep it for 50? Most likely not. So, the average rate of a person owning a home is actually longer than it's been in a long time because people aren't selling right now because they've got these locked in low rates. So, really, it's a question of would buyers be interested in something like this if they're really not building any home equity.
>> It's one of those things that the market's going to have to try to figure out if this is an opportunity, but obviously the unit economics on it do not look that popular. We are getting some red candles, folks. S&P, there's your red. Not red yet. officially. But there are the red candles. Meta just lost 630. Amazon lost 250. Grab lost six. Pounder losing 194. Tesla losing 445. And then Nvidia 197. Do you think it could be? Okay, here's the question. Do people think if we printed a $2,000 stim stimulus check, the market would like it? Because I know I'm joking that the market's going higher if we do that, but that's purely from his Historically, when we've printed stimulus, you know, 2020, we saw what happened. Inflationwise, I don't know if the bond market's going to be happy about that. And remember, JPAL's going to be the Fed chair till May. I mean, he might easily say there's no way in hell we're cutting if everyone's getting 2,000 bucks. You would have to see substantial labor market pressure for him to still, I think, be interested even in that situation. I see most of you guys saying dump. Yeah. I mean, dude, for inflation again, the only way this 2,000 per person, which would be like $400 billion, doesn't create inflation, is if AI has enough of a deflationary impact and you have enough layoffs where it offsets it. But I don't think we're that bad in the labor market yet for that to be the case. S&P still going red right here. That's weird, bro. I really yesterday when he tweeted that 2,000 dividend thing in Bent clarified, I thought like it's whatever. He's not really serious about it. If he's all money left over from $2,000 payments made to low and middle inome USA citizens from the massive tariff income will be used to pay down our debt. He's basically putting out this tweet because he probably is seeing push back from everyone saying, "No, you should pay off the debt. You shouldn't give money in stimulus." And basically he's saying, "No, we can do both. We can pay off the debt after we give the money via the stimulus." Like I feel like that's why he just posted that. It's It's just weird because I don't know if like we can handle printing that much money again. I really don't know if we can handle that. He wants the stem checks for the midterm elections. I mean there is definitely an argument that if he thinks the Republicans are going to lose control the stemmies would be politically motivated. It's just the re the only reason I would even give credit for that argument is that he's never talked about stimulus I shouldn't say never but in the past eight months when is he even when you know people brought up ideas around investments like in the American sovereign wealth fund that we were supposed to create which ended up never happening he said no we should pay down the debt we shouldn't even make investments in that he told Howard Lutnick to his face with the the Qataris um in some press conference that you know he started making a joke out of it but he said the US has pay down our debt. We can't afford to have a sovereign wealth fund like the Qataris can. So, if it was always about the debt, why is it now about stimulus before debt? But that just that really doesn't make that much sense. That's weird. I don't know. We're going to have to get some more details on it and see. I'm very curious if he actually starts floating that policy, but again, he's going to need congressional support in. We might not be able to get that elf right there. 7859. I do think markets are still going to pump regardless if that happens. Like I know the rate cut might not be as likely, but you give hundreds of millions of people 2,000 bucks, you're going to get a natural injection of earnings growth as people go and buy a new laptop. People go and they spend more money on food like they're just going to go out there and use that money. But if it jacks up inflation, then you know 2627 is going to be a different story. Google right there 286. That one also getting some red. Open. Are we green on open again? They got that upgrade. Open door right there 15%. That one's holding on. Yeah, new TVs. I mean, so many different ideas. Um S&P still holding its green, not really going away yet. Nvidia's at 195. You got a little bit of rebound there, but overall it's okay. Fizer is buying a company worth 10 billion bucks. Fizer right here 2413. That's down 1.2 25%. They're buying um Meistera in a deal worth up to 10 billion. Street doesn't love the acquisition based on the stock price, but nonetheless, you do have a $10 billion deal on Fizer as well. Kevin Hasset, you know, on Sunday was making sort of the same argument about the stimulus stuff as well. So, you know, maybe I mean, he didn't explicitly say $2,000 dividend checks, but he might be trying to signal that there is something like this that could happen. Moran's going to be uh on soon, and we'll take a listen to him. Again, he is the latest Fed chair, and we'll get his thoughts around what's going on as well. And I guess we'll get his questions on, hey, if the Trump were to give out a $2,000 dividend, would you be interested in continuing to cut rates? Uh, I showed this chart last night, but this is also really important to look at. Call volumes have now surpassed put volumes by the largest margin in history. So, I mean, you do have the bulls still in control in terms of the amount of momentum and call buying that still exists. Yeah, Novo did not buy them. Fizer ended up buying them. IQ down 8%. Goodness, dude. The other quantum name as not getting hit like that. Wow. I guess if you name a building in the University of Chicago after IQ, your stock goes down. Iran just went red. VIX spiking up a little bit. Look at that green candle. We were down seven. Now we're only down three. S&P continuing to get a red candle. Not really getting a bounce. Tesla pounder and then Nvidia at 1947. Rocket Lab just went red. Yeah, dude. I mean, I was kind of saying this last night. I I didn't I don't know how easy it's going to be to go back to all-time highs. I I would really appreciate if we can even stay around 675. We don't have to go back down to like 660 and hopefully that can set up a way to make the next leg up. But you do have some other headlines that potentially could just be like things that make it a bit harder. Remember, we at 689 two weeks ago, and I feel like that's got to be digested. Now, the trend is still positive, and the earnings growth is still positive. You do need another catalyst like Nvidia, which we'll have in a couple weeks, but we might not get there overnight, especially because the government still has to reopen. Pounder right there 190 and Google 2.6. Do you think it's sketchy if I swing trade grab shares? What are the odds it gaps and goes? Honestly, Grab has been one of the best stocks to swing trade over the past year. So, no, I don't think it's sketchy. It might get up to 610 and then come back down to 580. I mean, it's kind of been stuck in a range. It needs more of a fundamental catalyst to get into new price discovery mode, but there is a shot that it just fades away and then you can buy lower, sell it higher. Uber right there. That's up a little bit as well. And the Q's are still up 1.4, but they're down from 620 to 618. Feels like a continuation of October, right? Yeah, feels like a continuation of October. Again, Bit Mine did buy 100,000 Ethereum last week. Bit mine right there, 41.83. At least it's not back at 35. We're getting a 4180 print. But you do have it making a little bit of a move higher. Um, Nphase that's down 1.3. You had First Solar last week with earnings or Solar Edge S&P continuing to go down 6757. We just hit a new low for the day. We're still green from the pre-markets by about four bucks, but you could tell people are selling it off right here. Expedia had a great earnings, so makes sense that they're hitting 52. And see, this goes back to why this is kind of confusing, right? Expedia, travel, everything's great. And then Chipotle, Sweet Greens, Wendy's, consumer sucks. It's just a bit weird to see that bifurcation. Apple right there at 270 and then SMCI up 1%. Um, okay. Let's get to Moran and see what he has to say. Again, this is one of the Fed presidents. He has been one of the people advocating for multiple cuts. Let's get his perspectives on what he's thinking about the state of interest rates right now. By the way, get to this guy real quick. He talks in a way that's like in my opinion trying to sound super intellectual and sometimes he says a lot of stuff but he really says nothing. So we'll see what we can analyze here. But he tends to try to put words together and speak in a in a way that makes him sound really smart.
>> And that economic growth will will occur in the the quarter following. Now this has been an extremely long shutdown and so it be a little bit worse than that. Maybe we don't get all of the growth back, but generally speaking, I think that the shutdown is not something that really influences how I think about the economy.
>> So, how are you thinking about the economy without the official data releases? We're trying to track all the alternative data and some of the private sector data. What are you seeing?
>> Yeah. So, absolutely, it would be better to have more data than than than less data. That's absolutely something that would be the case. Nevertheless, we do have some data. And I think if you look at uh what's happened in the last few months, you go back to the September uh September meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the median participant in summary of economic projections was projecting a a three cuts this year. So a cut in September, a cut in October, and a cut in December. What's happened since that happened, since we put those projections out? Well, we've gotten new inflation data which were better than expected which would make one think that it would be reasonable to be incrementally more doubbish than at the September FOMC when again the median projection was for three cuts. And on top of that, labor market data have come out with continued tra with the labor market continuing in the trajectory it was on which is one of gradual softening. We do have some data on openings on new on new new openings that are available. We have some data on wages and we have some data on jobless claims and all of those are consistent with continued incremental softer weakening. I would think the reasonable thing to be is incrementally more dovish than we were in the September FOMC which again indicated three cuts for
>> but your colleagues are not and and we didn't get that message from Fed chair pow at the last meeting when it came to guidance and we're not getting it necessarily from the comments they're still saying inflation is stubbornly high and we don't have really enough data to tell us what to do.
>> Yeah. So I think that a lot of the a lot of that focus is on inflation data that are in my opinion somewhat misleading. And so the question is how backward-looking are those inflation data? And I think a lot of them are reliant a lot of them are reliant on data that are I think at this point quite stale. And when you look forward through things I think the indications are for it to be actually coming down quite reasonably at a at a quite reasonable pace. And so one of the issues in the inflation data is that there's a lot of what we call imputed prices. These are not prices that are observed in actual transactions that households are engaging in. They're imputed. And the biggest one of course is is housing through what we call owner's equivalent rent. Uh but there's other ones too. Things like financial services, things like nonprofit nonprofit services that are that are ultimately consumed by households. And when you look through all of these imputed prices, you look at a market-based core measure of PCE. It's running much closer to the Fed's target than than the than the the headline core, sorry, than the the normal core PCs. And then when you look at market-based uh PCE X, something like shelter, it's running just about at the Fed's target. And so I think that a lot of the reliance on inflation data is actually quite backward looking in the way that some of my colleagues are using it. And I think it's more important to be forward-looking and making making our making policy based on our forecast for the future.
>> So to the degree we get a wave of updated data next week if this shutdown actually ends. What's the first thing you're going to look for?
>> Well, I don't know if we'll be getting updated inflation data immediately. It might take some more time for that. I mean, we have the September CPI and so we'll be getting so we'll be getting following uh PCE data, but that's not that much incremental new information. To get new inflation data that's more recent than September will be a while. We will get the labor market data, but at this point it'll be somewhat stale. So, I think it's going to take some time until we have new data that's actually uh that's actually changing the forecast. And again, policy should be forward-looking. So, the question is what has happened that would make you think that your forecast has changed based on where it was previously. And in my opinion, there's been nothing that's occurred since the se September FOMC that would indicate a change of forecast.
>> Are you looking, speaking of looking forward, hopeful that tax refund season, OBBBA, depreciation will feed Q1 strength, first half strength of next year?
>> Yeah. So, I do think that some of those elements will feed into better economic performance next year uh as as we as we go into the turn of the year. However, I think it's important for monetary policy to be thinking of not just economic growth as one number but as an output gap. And so the question is, is potential GDP increasing more or less than actual GDP is? And when I think of some of the some of the policies that have been enacted over the course of the year, in my mind, they they're pushing out potential either by as much as actual is in the case of I think the tax law or they're pushing out potential GDP by more in the case of deregulation. And so some of those policies actually make the output gap actually more negative and increase the need to cut rates.
>> So you favor what another 50 basis point cut in December. That's what you wanted the last two meetings.
>> Well, look, you know, nothing nothing is certain. We could get we could get data that would make me change my mind between now and then. But failing new information that made me update my forecasts uh looking out in time, yeah, I would think that 50 is is appropriate as I have in the past, but at a minimum 25. So why why are your colleagues I mean you you mentioned the inflation story that you disagree that that you think it's backward-looking. Um there also you know Fed President Schmidt who was a denter didn't want to cut rates last time. In his descent when he came up we we pulled up the quote we can pull it up again. He was saying the economy is doing quite well. Unemployment is low. Stocks are near record highs. Credit spreads are near record narrow. So what what is telling you there that the economy is restrictive? Here here we go. Modestly restrictive. He says financial market conditions appear to be easy across many metrics as I just said the equities the corporate bond spreads high yield bond issuance is high. None of this suggests he says that the financial conditions are particularly tight or that the stance of policy is restrictive. Why do you disagree with that?
>> Yes. So a couple things. First of all, Congress didn't tell us to make policy for financial conditions. They told us to make policy for maximum employment and for stable prices. And financial conditions are a tool through which we work to to to achieve those goals. But even that said, you know, I look at financial conditions, I don't see the same thing. Sure, there are parts of financial conditions where they seem quite loose. And you can sort of look at valuations and in some equity markets or credit markets, but there are other markets where they appear quite tight. You look at something like housing and I think that it looks like financial conditions are quite tight. And when I think what matters more for economic growth and therefore for the labor market and for our price, it's absolutely going to be housing relative to equity markets any day of the week. And on top of that, you see stresses emerging in some private credit markets. Those aren't going into the price indices price indices that he's looking at when he's quoting something like that. So, I think the situation is much more nuanced much more nuanced than than than what he described. But I also think that it's important, as I said, to to be forward-looking on these things. And when you sort of extrapolate continuing softening in the labor market based on what's happening on this stance of policy and you extrapolate continuing declines in inflation based on the catchup of shelter inflation to actual market rents which are very very very low and based on ignoring some of the fake inflation in the imputed prices like portfolio management fees. It seems to me like we're heading a situation which inflation is going to be coming down quickly. The labor market is coming off. Some people are still worried that the tariff inflation hasn't fully showed up yet.
>> People have been worried about that all year long or they've been marking
>> that's still if even if you say inflation is backward looking they say okay well they're risk to the upside going forward.
>> They've been marking their forecast for tariff inflation down all year long. People have been moving in my direction on tariff inflation all year long. And on top of that if tariff inflation does materialize it is the definition of the type of thing that the central bank should look through. If tariff inflation were to materialize, it is the kind of one-off fiscally driven price increase that is not indicative of underlying changes in supply and demand. Right? You worry about second round effects if demand is outstripping supply and therefore there's going to be persistent upward pressures in prices. If prices move higher because the there's a fiscally mandated price change, whether it's a tariff or a value added tax or something that happens in healthcare or whatever it is, that's not the type of thing that gives rise to persistent demand outstripping supply that would cause persistent inflation effects. It's the definition.
>> Bro, he just said persistent five times in two sentences. Like this, that's what I'm saying, bro. Like I'm jealous of how he's yapping. He's like, he's able to put so many words in these sentences. I got imputed. I got quite tight and I got persistent from this guy over the past five minutes. Outside of that, I'm not sure exactly what else he said.
>> The one-off that the central bank should look through if it were to material
>> argued that too.
>> You mentioned private credit. Do you consider it a large sort of known unknown at the moment?
>> I do consider it a large known unknown. It is it is that that that's exactly the right way to describe it. I think uh you know it's something out there that we have limited insight into right there's limited there's there's less transparency in a private market than there is in the public market uh but we don't know how much of a issue if at all it is. I'm not negatively uh you know sort of disposed to private credit just because it's private. Um but I do think um I I do think I don't know as much about it as I do about some public markets. And I also think that we need to be thinking about this uh when we think about financial conditions. uh in the way I described before.
>> Uh and when it comes to like
>> look at its core, the guy is saying that inflation is not that big of a deal and we need to be cutting rates. It's the same thing he's been saying for a long time. He's just using a a very dense vocabulary to make that point. But we didn't get anything new from Moran right there. I mean, at its core point, he said, I think 50 basis points is appropriate, but at least 25. As long as we get a 25 basis cut in December, that's going to be important. S&P a little bit of a bounce off 675 which is helping some of these other names get a bounce. Now you do have some names that are just going straight red. Iran right there it got a bounce off 61 back to green at 62. Intel got a little bit of a bounce. TFC got a bounce. Duolingo at 192. Then Palanter just below 190. Robin had basically lost most of the gains today. Got to 139. Now back down to 132. Then Sofi is not able to hold 30 from 30 to 2960, but still up 5%. On the day, um, yes, I am jealous. I can't pronounce half the words. The dude I imputed. I mean, it's been a while since I heard that word, but I think I heard it like 50 times. The point is, he's bullish on rate cuts. It's just I'm not sure if every other Fed president agrees with him. And obviously he was handpicked by Trump, so you know, he wants to get rate cuts in there. Now, if we print $2,000 stimulus checks, I don't know if we're going to get those rate cuts, but it it just complicates a lot of the policy positioning a lot more if we're actually going to be doing those rate cuts, but we're going to have to see. Um, we had a bomb blast in New Delhi, did we? Is this related to terrorism? Eight killed after explosion in New Delhi. That's the capital of India. Huh. 24 injured. It was a blast in a car. Don't have an update on if this is terrorism. If it's a bomb blast in a car. Feels like it could be terrorism. Wow. Yeah. Happened like uh 30 minutes ago. I think we will have technical Tuesday tomorrow. Yes, I think we will. Uh we should be we don't have a lot of earnings tomorrow. So, we should be back to TT tomorrow. We had most of the main earnings already and it should be back tomorrow. All right, I'll try to get some updates on the India explosion, but it does look like this is a terrorist attack. The last major terrorist attack in India was around 2008. So, it has been a while since you've had a massive one. S&P right there 676 as that one continues to go green. Tesla 447 again. You're getting some of these bounces. Tesla went all the way to 433 back to 447. So maybe we don't go straight to the moon, but maybe it's not as ugly as a Friday dump. I just think everyone gets scared when we do see a little bit of red because, you know, we got whipsawed last week multiple times. The AMD conference is tomorrow, right guys? AMD investor day. I think it's tomorrow, November 11th. Yeah, it'll be I think around 12 p.m. Eastern. I'm I'm sure Jose will be streaming that tomorrow. So, uh, Jose and Neil probably will be covering AMD. I don't know if we got a pump on that. I mean uh now granted look if Lisa says something like Jensen said which is like this $500 billion opportunity in five quarters. If Lisa says anything near similar to that obviously I think the market would be excited. But they did on the earnings call when we listened to it they didn't say a lot of stuff and they just said wait till next week. So I think a lot of investors are expecting some pretty big announcements tomorrow for uh for AMD. We got another update right here in the AI space. Um, a company just raised. Wow. Let me pull this up. Dude, see this stuff is important because we have to kind of track what's going on in the AI space. There's a company just just raised 2.1 billion in a series B and they're doing a hundred million in ARR with 50 people. Gamma is the name of the company. I've never heard of it. Let's take a look at this right here.
>> 5 years ago, Gamma set out to build the anti- PowerPoint, an idea that seemed insane at the time. But in less than 2 years from our AI launch in 2023, over 70 million users have signed up for Gamma. Like us, they knew there was a better way. And today we're announcing Gamma just raised a series B at a $2.1 billion valuation in a round led by Andreston Horowitz. Since we launched Gamma 3.0 last month, we've seen our usage just skyrocket. Literally 30 million gamas were created in the last month alone. We also introduced our beta API which makes content generation easier than ever. A sales team with a thousand prospects can now create a thousand custom pitch decks, each personalized with company data and ROI. Okay, so this company, 100 million ARR, 70 million users, 50 people, 2.1 billion valuation. The reason this stuff is really important to keep track of is because these are the companies that are going to be buying a ton of compute from Azure, AWS, GCP. are the ones that are going to be potentially, you know, the next uh hundred billion,200 billion dollar companies in the age of AI. So, making sure there's enough of these companies like I don't want to go as far as saying they're the next Amazons or Googles of the world, but metaphorically, right, when the internet was created, you needed the PayPal, the Amazons, the Googles. You need that in the world of AI as well. And I don't know anything about this company, but that's pretty damn impressive, dude. 100 million in revenue, 50 people, two billion. And that two billion valuation isn't that crazy either. That's 20 times sales. That's not like absurd or anything like that's not like, you know, a hundred times sales or anything crazy like we were seeing back in 2021. So, I think the more of those we see the better as it shows that there are these new AI applications that are that are winning. Wow. a bunch of you say you use their product AI PowerPoint. I guess you could imagine that there's, you know, an industry for that. I mean, speaking of AI PowerPoint, Sam Alman was uh saying that over the weekend and it and it caused Elon to respond to it. Um, Alman basically said, "Hey, we should be able to redeveloped the entire suite of office tools." There are positives about Slack, but there's also like, you know, I like kind of dread the first hour of the morning, last hour before I go to bed where I'm just like dealing with explosion of Slack. And I think it does create a lot of fake work. I suspect there is something new to build that is going to replace a lot of the current sort of office productivity suite whatever you think of like docs, slides, email, slack, whatever that will be sort of the AIdriven version of all of these things. It's not where you like tack on the horrible like you know you accidentally click the wrong place and it tries to write a whole document for you or summarize some thread or whatever but the actual version of like you are trusting your AI agent and my AI agent to work most stuff out and escalate to us when necessary. Elon responded by saying, "I told you guys Sam Alman would try to compete against Microsoft." Because that's really what he would be doing, right? If you make a new set of AI, Microsoft Word or AI, PowerPoint, etc., that would be a direct competition with Microsoft. And that's kind of what Elon was making in terms of point. But obviously, you're likely going to need a lot more of those new applications in the world of AI. So, it seems like that's going to take place. uh White House official, the action in the Senate is a positive development and we look forward to seeing it progress. Okay, so the White House pretty confident that we will get this rate cut 676 on the S&P getting a little bit more of a bounce. We have like two more minutes left of Moran. Let's just finish up with him and I think then we'll be done for today.
>> Treasury bills. So the overall size of the balance sheet doesn't change. However, that's still a net an increase in net supply of interest rate risk of duration risk and of credit risk into the economy because that maturing mortgage when it's replaced by a new mortgage because the person moves or refinances that has to be absorbed by the market. And so the the restrictive stance of balance sheet policy hasn't changed even though we're keeping the amount of reserves constant. So that's the first thing to note. The second thing to note is that if we do end up increasing the size of the balance sheet for the sake of keeping reserves in the system, which is not a monetary policy issue, it's a banking issue and regulatory issue. If we do that, and we do it by buying Treasury bills, we create reserves in exchange for these treasury bills. That's basically swapping one form of short-term obligation for another form of short-term obligation. Unless you expand the balance sheet in a way that you're buying longerterm debt, whether it's mortgages or treasury securities, it doesn't have an implication for monetary policy.
>> The other thing that's happening is we're seeing this inequality rise with with spending. You hear it you hear about it in the consumer numbers. We saw it in the consumer confidence data that we got on Friday. And I think the strongest argument for doves like you is that we we don't make monetary policy for the markets and for the top percent. and and what we're seeing in terms of strain and the lower income on spending on housing affordability um not participating in the market gains that I think is the best case for cutting interest rates. I mean do you do you see that gap widening?
>> Yeah, you know look we we also weren't tasked with with tackling you know inequality and and and other items like that. We were tasked with maximum employment and stable prices. uh we're no longer at maximum employment because the unemployment rate has been drifting higher for over the course of the last what 12 plus months, right? And it continues in my mind to drift higher. So we're no longer at that. We're drifting farther away from it as we allow the uh the labor market to continue softening because policy is too tight. And so it's imperative upon us to adjust policy to continue calibrating it downwards to prevent that restriction on the economy from bringing the unemployment rate even higher.
>> Sure. I mean that I think those two arguments go together actually quite nicely. There is though this argument I'm just gonna throw all the counter arguments at you. You know that you know what what is the rush? What is the urgency? Why don't we wait till we get a clearer sense of the economy and inflation? No, nothing is screaming like the Fed needs to be cutting rates urgently right now.
>> Yeah. So that's a great question and it ties back to what we were talking about before with the with the lack of data. So monetary policy works with lags. If you adjust interest rates now, it doesn't hit the economy now. It takes a while to hit the economy. Nobody knows exactly how long those lags are. Most people think probably 12 to 18 months. Some people think they've shortened a little bit relative to that recently. However, if you're making data for what if you're making policy for what the data are now, you are backward looking because it will take 12 to 18 months for that to hit the economy. So, you need to make policy now based on where you think the economy is going to be a year to a year and a half from now. And if you say something like everything seems fine today or we don't have data and therefore we're in fog and we need to sort of just sit still, you're making data, you're making policy in an extremely backward-looking manner. And I think that's very dangerous because you're not responding to where the where the economy will be 12 to 18 months from now.
>> Which is why Moran obviously is advocating for rate cuts. Um so same argument that he's been making for a while. Nothing really changing from there. We got another Bur tweet. We got another Bur tweet one minute ago. Okay, let's see what we got. Understating depreciation by extending useful life of assets artificially boost earnings. One of the more common frauds of the modern era. Wow. Barry's basically saying all this GPU depreciation that companies are using to boost their earnings is fake. Massively ramping capex through purchase of Nvidia chip servers on a two to threeyear product cycle should not result in the extension of useful lives of compute equipment. Yet this is exactly what all the hyperscalers have done. Wow. Bur's straight up officially talking. This guy's not talked for two years. He is officially putting out statements in his own words that are obviously more bearish. By my estimates, they will underdepreciate or understate depreciation by 176 billion in the next two years. By 2028, or Oracle will overstate earnings by 27%, Meta by 20.8%, etc. But it gets worse. More details coming November 25th. Stay tuned, guys. He's going for another big short. He is going for another big short. Yeah, we got to screenshot it because he's going to delete this in like five seconds. Let me take the screenshot. Goodness gracious. I don't think people realize how big of a deal it is that he's actually calling out tickers. Bur never me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me mentions tickers ever. He just mentioned Meta, Oracle, and Nvidia. He doesn't do that. He tends to be very quiet when it comes to actually saying the name of any companies. the fact that he's putting out analysis either he's getting super desperate more details coming what this guy has a freaking album coming out November 25th big short 2.0 know, like what is this November 25th? He wants everyone to be on their toes waiting for like what the fact that he's putting out tickers and sending a warning to the market. You got all the data center stocks going down right here. I mean, he's obviously trying to get attention and and to me, if you're trying to get attention, maybe it's because you're really underwater on the short or he has no short or no puts. He got out of the whole pounder in video thing and now he's just putting out content for the sake of putting out content and and he's not financially motivated by being bearish, which I mean, who knows? Maybe he just wants to cause chaos and be right even if he's not putting his money where his mouth is. But given Bur's tra, you know, history, usually he tends to put some money on a bearish bet if he's putting out all this content around it. Does he only post when bearish? Yeah, pretty much. I mean, he does not he that's what he never like he's long Lululemon. He's never posted something bullish about the state of the consumer in the context of clothing, you know, he's not posting things about Molina healthcare, even though he's long Mol, you know, he he tends to come out when he's bearish, but he hasn't done that for years. So, and he's damn sure never mentioned tickers for the past three years. So, it is quite incredible that he's actually putting this out there. He wants people to short it with him. That's why I 100% agree. I mean, you're talking about some random November 25th date to unveil some potentially master plan of analysis or research that he's putting out. He obviously wants people to be on his side of the story and jump in trade with him. If he's in a trade, the only one we know about is Invidian Pounder. Maybe there's another one. It's been, you know, two months since it was disclosed maybe or since he had to disclose it. So, you know, maybe he's even more short the broader market or something, but I'm not sure. Why November 25th? That's a good question. I don't know. I don't know. He's trying to ruin the holidays. He might legit be trying to ruin the holidays. Dell reports earnings November 25th, huh? Oh, may that's a good point. Maybe it has nothing to do with him putting out like research. Maybe it has to do with companies he wants people Dude, you know what this reminds me of? This reminds me of freaking um um Catch Me If You Can, which is a phenomenal movie. I know I don't know that much about movies or rather I should say I know that you guys don't think I know that much about movies. I'm you know my opinion a movie concour but uh this is a phenomenal movie and I've watched this twice obviously DiCaprio I'm a fanboy but um you know like he was giving out hints throughout the movie he almost wanted to be caught. It's almost kind of like how Bur's playing it, right? More details coming November 25th. If if there's something in Dell's earnings that he's projecting is going to show up in regards to capex and depreciation. Who? Hold on. Is Nvidia Nvidia Q3 earnings? No, Nvidia is before November 25th, right? Nvidia is November 19th. So, Dell is the major major company. November 25th, Dell, HP, Autodesk, Workday, and Zcaler. Those are the earnings. So, there you go. I have seen Shaw Shank Redemption. It's also a phenomenal movie. Uh, I know you guys won't believe me, but I did watch that a long time ago. It's a great movie. You know what I tried to watch last night? I tried to watch uh the new Vince Gilligan show um uh Pluribbus or whatever. I signed up for Apple TV, did the three-month trial. I couldn't get through five minutes of it, bro. I could not get through f I was like, dude, and Vince Gilligan, Breaking Bad is the best show of all time in my opinion. And so, I wanted to give it a chance because it's Vince Gilligan's that, you know, it's the second big show. I tried. I really tried. I I couldn't do it. Five minutes. I was like, the hell is this, bro? I went I went to sleep. I was going to watch it before I went to sleep. I just turned it off. I was like, I can't watch this [ __ ] I'll try again. I'll try again when I'm not as sleepy because it's Vince Gilligan. Like, I really respect Vince Gilligan. But I was like, bro, like, can we be a bit more exciting for the first couple minutes? Like, anyway, that's the Bur tweet. Very weird, dude. The only reason I'm making a big deal out of this is because he does not state tickers like that. The fact that he's that explicit about it makes me think that he is getting much more serious about his short. Again, I think he's wrong. I'm willing to listen to the arguments. I just don't think you bet against the types of earnings growth we're seeing. His argument is that none of the earnings growth is real. That's fine. That's where you have a debate. But I don't know if that's the best side of the story to be on. And again, you know, he said back in January 2023 to sell. Obviously, we had a massive bull market since then. So, I mean, ever since 2008, he hasn't really called a cycle or a or a uh a bearish or bullish bet as accurate. He did get China correct back when China was cheap in 2024. And that's that's fair. Does that mean he's going to get this whole AI bubble, capex bubble thing? I don't I don't think so. Unless there is some real cracks, but we got to get some company data to see those cracks manifest themselves. Otherwise, it's hard to just give him the benefit of the doubt, given the last thing he got right from a bearish perspective was 2008. Have you watched Severance? Yes, I thought Severance was not a good show. I know you guys will give me [ __ ] for that. I really didn't think Severance was like I don't know why people hyped that show up, but I will try Palibus again. S&P right there, 675. still up about 1% on the day, but is down from the highs at 679. All right, folks. That is it for me. I'll be back on the close. We got a really big close today. We have a lot of earnings. Rocket Lab, AS, Big Bear AI, Cororeweave, Regetti, and Terolf. So, we got a lot of earnings today. We'll be taking a look at that. Uh, I don't know what call to listen to. I think Matt's going to be listening to Rock Lab. So, maybe we listen to something else. Maybe we'll listen to Cory, to be honest. I have never listened to Core Weave and quite frankly I would want to hear how they're talking about GPUs and data centers. But for those that want Rocklab Matt, we'll definitely be streaming that. And uh we'll get through the rest of the earnings later today. Oscar is again down because of the lack of ACA subsidies being extended. That's why Oscar is getting hit. Word of the day. Sagittal means relating to an error. arrow, but figuratively it describes something precisely straight, sharply directed, or cutting through the middle. Often used in anatomy, philosophy, or metaphorical speech. His sagittal focus on the problem cut through the noise. Every move was direct and intentional. Sagittal. I think I'm saying that right because you have the J. That would be two in a row if I'm saying it right. That would be two in a row. Well, it has a G, but the J's in the pronunciation.
>> Sagittal.
>> Boys two for two. Your boy's two for two. Sagittal. Okay. So, having a very narrow or sharp focus on something is sagittal. That's what we have for the word of the day. All right. We're going to see. You've got the AI bulls that have a very sagittal focus on where the trajectory of capex is going. And then you obviously have Bur coming out. Again, this is the first real analysis he's made in almost two years in written form. And so he is gearing up his arguments as well versus the Bulls. That's like my star sign. It does sound like a star sign. Have you watched Billions? Yes, I've seen Billions, but I thought it got super boring by season two is just too much talking. So, I don't know. I didn't really like Billions either. Steve gets on me for that, but I I really didn't enjoy it too much. But I will try Plebus again. Matt Money has a flight. He can't cover earnings. Oh, yeah. You're right. He's in the UK. Dude, the problem with the Rocket Lab call, I've listened to it before. It's like two and a half hours and it's just really dense. Like they go through a lot of stuff before they get to Q&A. So I feel like Cororei would be better for the majority of people. I'm sure someone else might be streaming Rocket Lab, but they're like really long calls and like if you're not that into the technicals of space, it can get kind of boring, but we'll see if we can get a bunch of different headlines from those from those calls. All right, cool. That's it. Thank everybody. appreciate it. Um, I'll be back on the market close. We'll keep going from there. Lots of different earnings to cover. Core, as Rocket Lab, Big Bear, AI, Terra, Wolf, and Regetti. I'll be back on the close. We'll see what we get. And then Tuesday, tomorrow, we'll have um technical Tuesday. We should also be getting Buffett's final shareholder letter today in a couple hours. And then maybe we get some 13Fs after the bell. Probably by Wednesday, Thursday, we'll get the majority of them. We'll see if we get them and then we'll cover them as they break live. All right. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it. Love you all. See you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.