All right. Hello everybody. We are live. Uh, we got some earnings. So, PayPal. I think Noto's on CNBC right now. Is he? No, he's not. Well, we will. No, he was. Okay, I'm going to go. We're going to get the results in a second, but I'm going to go right here on CNBC. Listen to
>> seen the results.
>> No, I've seen the results. They beat on top and bottom EPS two cents EPS revenue like 20 million. But here's not and then we'll get into everything else.
>> Good morning to you. Congratulations on uh some nice earnings there. Uh we're looking at the stock this morning. Uh help us understand what's driving this and then we can try to maybe look out into the future to understand a little bit better what 2026 may portend.
>> Sure. Well, thanks for having me on this morning. Uh we had an exceptional quarter in every way. What's driving our growth is our unique strategy. We're the only place that on the digital platform, you can get all your financial needs served across big decisions that you'll make like buying a home or paying for college, day-to-day activity like a SoFi money account or investing for your future um or needing a charge card to pay at the point of sale. Uh that diversification has driven really strong member and product growth. Our members grew 35% year-over-year, products grew 36% year-over-year, and that manifests itself in revenue growth of 38%. Um we've been public for 17 quarters and every quarter of those last 17 we've achieved um the rule of 40 or more we've averaged about 58% and that's taking your revenue growth and your ebidom market
>> and this quarter was 67. So it's a combination of durable growth innovation and brand building. So Anthony, what is the product right now when you look at sort of the the the multiple different products that you offer in terms of the tip of the spear that's bringing new customers into your ecosystem which then you're effectively selling, you know, and upselling them other products? What is it that's happening here?
>> Sure. So money is by far um one of the things that are the tip of the spear. We have 6 million members. It's a very unique offering. It's the best of checking and savings in one. We give high interest about a 3.8 8% APY today. We charge no fees. We provide reward points. You can pay anybody anywhere that you would like. You can pay via an email address, via a phone number, via your debit card, via a you can now do instant wires as well. So, we tried to deliver the best place to save, the best place to spend, uh to do it safely, quickly, and cheaply. Um, in addition to that, you also become a uh member and you get free certified financial planning because we're trying to help you spend less than you make and invest the rest. Half of the Americans in the United States don't invest today and it's primarily because they have no discretionary income to achieve their goals. So, that is at the tip of the sword. Another product, Relay. Um, both products are over 6 million products, both Relay and SoFi money. Those are the tip of the sword. And then we drive about 40% crossby. It was a record this quarter because we have this breath of products. We're using information that we have about you to help you borrow better, save better, spend better, and invest better. And so that is helping
>> who are you taking share from? If you if you if if you were sitting around on a Monday morning with a with a whiteboard looking at sort of who you actually think of as your competitor set today, who is it? Because obviously there's the banks, there's a number of the digital platforms. I mean, I'm just curious what you would I won't answer. What do you think?
>> Yeah. Uh, it's not what I think, it's what I know. We can actually see where the money is coming from directly every day, and it's really coming from the banks. Uh, there's in the United States, there's over 5,000 banks. Uh, the large banks have trillions of dollars of deposits. Uh, we're at about $33 billion of deposits today. We added a record of $3 billion of deposits. And those deposits are coming from the big banks, the largest banks in our country. Um, and that's on the SoFi money product, which as I mentioned is the tip of the sword. In invest, we're really actually creating new investors as well as novice investors and helping them get up the learning curve. Um, within student loan refinancing, we really don't compete against anyone because it's a product that's not really offered by big financial institutions. I would say in mortgage, the big banks do not offer mortgage to everyday Main Street customers. Um, and so in each product category, the competitor is different, but overall, it's the big banks.
>> Okay. I don't know if you saw the news this morning and and I don't know how early you've been up because I imagine you're on the West Coast, but uh PayPal and OpenAI just announced a partnership where you're going to actually be able to uh effectively pay for things using PayPal inside of Chat GPT going forward. And to me, this has huge implications for the entire sort of financial community because there's a question both of the opportunity set uh to effectively partner with some of these large language models and and chat bots, but there's also the possibility of remarkable amounts of disruption that could ultimately take place. How are you thinking about that?
>> Sure. There are two technology super cycles happening at the same time. Both of which that impact the fintech sector and SoFi specifically. One is AI and the other is blockchain. Uh we launched this quarter SoFi pay and you can now send dollars from the United States through a level two blockchain via SoFi to someone in Mexico and have it convert into the local fiat there in pesos. We'll roll that out throughout the entire world and then we'll take the SoFi pay app which will allow you to pay not just via blockchain and stable coin uh which SoFi will issue but allow you to pay any other way that you would like to. So it's a universal payment capability. So, we're going to put the SoFi app in these foreign countries to allow international um payments to be made. What I'd say about these press releases with Chat GPT and others is we're launching products. We're not putting out press releases. There was one yesterday about a stable coin with a big bank. Let's watch what people actually launch and the impact that they're having. The reaction that we got from US uh consumers and our members from launching international remittance cheaper, faster, and safer than the current mechanisms uh was really positive. And so you'll continue to see us innovate behind both AI and blockchain. Um, one thing that uh we didn't talk about is that we will be the first national bank in the United States to launch buy, sell, and hold crypto on our platform. First national bank to offer that by the end of the year. We'll launch a stable coin in Q1 which will help us really drive faster, cheaper, and safer uh payments as well.
>> Anthony Notto taking the gloves off early at PayPal and OpenAI. We appreciate it. Uh it's great to see you and look forward to hopefully seeing you in person soon.
>> All right. Um these are the results on the top line for those that haven't seen it. You got a 22% EPS beat, 6% revenue beat, 950,000 members, 700 uh or sorry, 76% uh financial services growth. And I mean it's is a pretty damn good quarter. Steve, what are your your thoughts as you're seeing this? They crushed it. I mean, Triple Beat, just like I said, they absolutely crushed it. I mean, there's not a bad And look, I didn't read through the entire deck. On the surface, there is nothing to be mad at. I'm sure I'll nitpick and find something, but you can't be mad at these numbers. And they grew what? 95,000 new members. They're very close to getting a million a quarter.
>> 950. They're
>> Was it 950? Did I read it wrong?
>> It is. I thought
>> Oh, sorry. You're right. 95,000. My bad. My bad. Yeah.
>> I'm also not awake. So,
>> dude, I am tired. This is the I have like I'm usually not this tired. I'm freaking tired.
>> This is not okay. Like I'm gonna put a tweet out to no that like this is not okay.
>> I don't know why they do it in the morning like this. Um wait 95,000 actually. I I thought it was 950. That actually changes stuff because that was closer to a million. This is less closer to a million. It's still a great number. I did think they were closing in on a million though. But
>> did you have breakfast yet?
>> I don't eat breakfast ever. You don't eat breakfast. You didn't drink coffee. How are you doing this?
>> You know, your guess is as good as mine.
>> How the hell are you functioning?
>> Your guess is as good as mine.
>> Well, okay. So, we'll go deeper into SoFi, but um dude, PayPal said the magic word.
>> Do you know what the magic word is, Steve?
>> Hire. Open AI
>> for PayPal. Why is PayPal up this morning,
>> dude? They're up 15%. You didn't see it?
>> No.
>> PayPal is up 15%. And the reason they're up is because Yeah, it was a good EPS and revenue beep. But
>> Andrew Chris or whatever his name is was like, "Nothing else is going to get this stock to go up. Let's just freaking mention Open AI and become an AI company and you were going to go up."
>> Yeah. Okay. Legend isn't working. It's being stupid. So, I'm going to share Weeble. But, um, did did they give a dividend, guys? I heard that they gave a dividend. Um, I don't want to confirm that unless that is true. PayPal. Look at that. 14.59%. Yeah, they've announced a dividend. Okay, cool. I mean,
>> oh, they're listening. Look at that.
>> You've been asking for this for a while, right?
>> Been asking for it. They just became a prime candidate to be in every single dividend ETF. Company initiates a quarterly dividend of 14 cents a share. I mean, dude, that's it's a big deal. It's a big deal in my opinion. Like,
>> yeah. Now, I can't complain about anything. You've been saying they need a dividend for a long time.
>> Yep.
>> They're buying back stock and they're doing divvies.
>> Yep.
>> And and then they announced an opening eye partnership. They're going to be like an integrated payments partner inside of SHABT. I mean, you put all three of those together. Revenues beat by 7% or revenues up 7% year-over-year. Um they beat by 12% on EPS, beat by 2% on revenue. I mean, we all knew the stock was undervalued, so it just needed a little bit of a bolt. And the dividend and open eye partnership was enough, it seems, to make a move. So, where does SoFi go from here is the question. Is this good enough to not dump at 2:00 today? By the way, UNH is up 3%. We'll look at their earnings as well in a second, but UNH is up. Yeah, I don't know. I mean, the the the stock reaction is pretty muted. Um, I mean, muted in the sense of it was at this level last night, so no one
>> Oh, by the way, before we really get into this, hold on. Show Otani steals the show in record-breaking 18 World Series Classic. I couldn't stay up at like 12:15. I was like, I I have to be up for SoFi because Noto is crazy. That this guy's the best player that ever lived. That's all I'm gonna say.
>> The Dodgers won, right?
>> Best player that's ever lived.
>> So, it's 2-1 now.
>> Yeah, I think so. All right. So, find better relations. I want to go through the deck. Have you gone through the deck yet?
>> A little bit. Not most of it.
>> I haven't seen it. Yeah, guys. Sorry if our uh if our energy is not super super up there, which is this early
>> freaking hat on. That's all I can say.
>> This is early, bro. Like you that extra hour from now until when I go live at 8:45 is really important. It like helps you get the energy. This one is freaking
>> I'm just walking out the door now on my way to Starbucks getting coffee. And it's cold as hell, too. So,
>> dude, I went outside in shorts. I'm like, what the freak? Like, I was half asleep wearing shorts. I'm like, it's not warm out.
>> No, it's not. Things That's what I'm saying. Everything things change so quick on the Northeast. And
>> thankfully, I uh it was a very short walk.
>> Okay. So, uh, SoFi, you said where does it go? So, who thinks based on these earnings SoFi dumps by end of day because it's not making that big move. Maybe it's waiting for the market to open, but
>> Oh, by the way, I took the day off today just so I could stream what it meant.
>> Oh, you actually took the day off.
>> I actually took the day off. I ha even though I took the day off, I have to attend two meetings and I'm still technically working because I have stuff I have to do throughout the day, but I am using a vacation day for the first time in God knows how long.
>> That's good. You should be. You never take a vacation day. So,
>> never take vacation days. All right. Added a record 900,000 new members, 100 1.4 4 million new products. Record adjusted Evida 29% adjusted margin. I hate adjusted numbers. I hate them, but whatever. I mean, I mean, how do you feel about 38% year-over-year growth in adjusted net revenue? I mean, look, at the end of the day, they're growing like a tech company, so you can't be upset about it, right? They're growing. I mean, I Here's one of the big things for me.
>> Record loan originations of $9.9 billion in the quarter. I need to look more into that when I get through the deck, but I mean that's huge.
>> 9.9 billion. Yeah. I mean,
>> as rates come down,
>> this is just going to go up.
>> Agreed. Which is my thesis on SoFi for this year as well. and deposits keep scaling. 3.4 of new quarterly deposits. We're at 33 billion. Yeah. I mean, look, you can't be upset at any of these numbers. Um, I guess the member growth was a little bit light, but still was pretty good, just against some of the expectations. Um, credit card scaling. Invest is finally having options. Crypto's coming back. Members again, 12.6 million. I've always had a gripe that I would like to know how many members are active, but then again, you know, who cares,
>> right?
>> I do think it would be important though to know some of that. Uh, 95,000 new members. Again, if I mean, eventually they're going to get to a couple million per quarter, even if it takes one or two years. And so, I don't know why the stock is not more excited about this. I guess they didn't say OpenAI,
>> right? They just didn't say Open AI.
>> Regardless, I think it's a good quarter. I don't have UNH's numbers for some reason. Let me see if I can pull up UNH. UNH.
>> Oh my god. No. No. Now go to slide 11. Please go to slide 11.
>> Are you freaking kidding me? Now, now we got to start talking about rule of 40 with SoFi. Like, come on.
>> Why are they copying Palunteer, bro? Pal got every single tech company to be like, "Hey, we need to focus on rule of 40, though."
>> And is this even like a wow? I don't even know. Is this a wow factor with rule of 40? Uh well look so if if SoFi is proving itself to be a company with really good margins and really good growth then yeah I mean look they have a rule of 67 right is that yeah
>> it's not horrible. What was Palunteers
>> 81?
>> Not that
>> at 104. But
>> where's Okay. Tech platform growth. Where is Can we get What's the number?
>> It's in the appendex.
>> Oh, they don't have a slide on the tech platform.
>> No, I doubt it. Oh,
>> they do. They do. Right here. Um net revenue 115 million 12% growth and 32 per 32 million of contribution margin.
>> Oo home loans is up. Look at that. Home loans is already more than 2024 and through three quarters.
>> They said we executed 4.6 six billion of personal student home loan sales inclusive of the loan platform in Q3 as well. I mean, there's not much to complain about. You can say tech platform is not growing as much, but everyone already knew that. So, it's not like,
>> right,
>> I mean, it's hard to be mad at this. I I'm I'm impressed with guidance. I mean, look, they keep beating they keep beating earnings. They keep raising guidance. Another triple beat. I mean, we know notto sandbags, but this is something where it's just a great company.
>> Yeah. Why do you think the stock's not reacting more positively?
>> Because it's SoFi. People don't get excited about SoFi for some reason,
>> dude. People were pretty excited last night. I think our group and our community is excited. I don't think the street gets excited about it because look, no matter what anybody wants to say, okay, go back to tech revenue. It's a freaking bank. You know what I mean? Like not doesn't bring the same energy as Vlad when talking about all the new products for some reason. I want to hear the earnings call. I want to hear what he says on CNBC later when he goes on Tech Check or Kramer, whatever he goes on. But Vlad has a way and Vlad has an aura about him when he is discussing things and I feel like he just goes into different verticals that SoFi is not going to go into. And look, when it comes down to it, this reads as the earnings of a bank. Now, it may be a hyperrowth bank, but where's most of their revenue coming from?
>> No, I get it. From lending, it makes sense. I I I think it is fair to say it also ran up before the earnings. I mean, I guess 25 to 30 was the run.
>> So, do me a favor. Bring up stay stoic, be stoic from 750. Like I'm not saying I want him to pump the stock by any means because I don't. To me if so is at 30 or at 40 it doesn't change my life. I absolutely do not want him to pump the stock. I am just saying there is an interpretation when Vlad talks at a conference or when Sofi talks or not talks on a conference. It's interpreted differently. That's all I'm saying is interpreted differently and people get excited about Robin Hood because Robin Hood is looked at as a tech forward company whereas SoFi by a lot of people is looked at as a bank and when you look at SoFi's numbers the majority of their profitability and the majority of their revenue is from lending and financials which are traditional bank segments. That's all I'm saying. I mean, is there anything incorrect with what I just said, Emit?
>> No, not at all. I mean, look, at the end of the day, a lot of retail is excited about it, including both of us, but you know, I guess the running from 25 to 30 wasn't enough. Also, again, it's up 170% or 150% for the year. Like, no one can be upset if it's not pumping another 10%. You know, so it's like, it's whatever.
>> I mean, the only good thing about this is if you don't get a pump today or tomorrow, you can start writing. I mean, not gonna say you, but I could probably start writing cover calls on it.
>> I mean, I have a thousand shares. I'd probably start writing calls as well. The premiums aren't good, but at least there's something and it's a good quality company that you're getting to hold, you know? So, I don't think it's that big of a deal, but the the stock did make a big move this year. And so, at 9:30, we're going to see if the market actually wants to give it a premium. UNH is up 3.72%, folks. We do have some good beats on UNH. Um,
>> oh, I was supposed to tell I was supposed to keep something quiet, but I'm not going to. Do me a favor. Look at the board of QXO.
>> Did you hear Chris and I last night?
>> No, I did not hear you guys.
>> Oh, boy. This is going to get you really interested.
>> Oh, I see it. I see. I know. Exactly. I know exactly.
>> Well,
>> we found out Chris
>> Chris brought it up last night. He couldn't believe it. I didn't know because I was I gave Chris my twominut spiel on it after I did a ton of research this re articles. So, he's like really gung-ho now.
>> All right. It's worth it's worth diving into.
>> Uh UNH UNH guidance of 16.25. That's better than expected. That was good. EPS 292 which was 11 cents better than expected. revenue 113.16 also exceeding the estimate of 1136. So, UNH beat on the top and the bottom which is helping um UPS I believe also beat expectations. Yeah, EPS 174 versus 130 revenue 21.4 versus 20. UPS is that up in the pre-markets that is Wow, UPS is up 10%. Bro,
>> I stopped following them. I haven't looked at them in a while. I
>> I I just think it's good to see a lot of these companies beat on top and bottom uh because it's indicative of a healthier market. So UPS, SoFi, PayPal, Wayfair beat by 59%. My goodness, 70 cents versus 44 cents expected. And then 3.17 versus 3.01 billion. Uh, Wayfair stock is up 10%. I mean, and then Royal Caribbean, they missed by 1% on revenue, beat by 1% on EPS, 575 versus 568, 5.13 versus 5.17 billion in revenue. RCL, that stock is down seven. Damn, they missed by 1% on revenue and they fell 7%. Outside of that, companies are crushing. Yeah, UPS beating was a great sign going into Christmas as well as demand deliveries or demand for deliveries is coming back as at a higher level. Uh, for those that own PayPal in the chat, I mean, what are your thoughts here? It looks, Dude, it looks like this this OpenAI partnership is actually kind of important.
>> It's going to revitalize the company.
>> Starting next year, PayPal user will be able to shop and check out directly in chatbt using merchants can list and sell their inventory there. PayPal will handle routing, validation, buyer protection, tracking, and dispute resolution for AI powered commerce. That is actually something if Chat GBT really wants to make shopping a thing that can significantly increase PayPal's transaction volumes. Now again, I'm not sure how many people are going to be buying on Chat GBT, but if there's, you know, any level of significant amount, that's going to be important. Yeah, Suchin, let us know your thoughts. Suchin for for anyone who was live on my channel yesterday, Suchin texted me at like what was it like 10 a.m. and he told me he's he's buying a ton of leaps on on PayPal for January 2028 110 strike
>> in such we trust.
>> That was a good idea.
>> Yeah, that's another great freaking idea.
>> That was a good idea. Not too bad. I mean, look, if they didn't have the opening eye partnership, I do think the stock might not be as because like what else is there to get excited for? I mean, the EPS beat was decent. Revenue beat 7% year-over-year is fine. Dividend is cool. That that's important, but this open AAI thing can it's a narrative that can finally get people like, okay, this is I can see them, you know, in a in a in a different level.
>> This is going to be interesting. Amazon first announced yesterday they were cutting 30,000 jobs and now they just made another announcement of 14,000 jobs. Was that a revision or an addition?
>> Another announcement of 14,000 that they're cutting
>> or I guess this is a revision because now the to it says the total number affected positions could reach as many as 30,000. All right. Well, Amazon's up in the pre-market, so Street is interpreting this not in a bad way. I I I think Oh, yeah. You know, you're right. 14,000. It looks like they brought it down from they said by at least 14,000.
>> So, maybe it's not 30,000, but it's
>> You want to know what's crazy?
>> What?
>> When 2025 is in the books, I may have been too bearish. Is that not going to be crazy if we finish like 7,200 and it looks like I was freaking bearish. Not bearish may not be the right word, but underestimated when everybody thought I was overestimating. Like whoever was high on the street. This is we really could see a huge rally into the end of the year if the Fed cuts and if every if PayPal and SoFi and all these companies UNH UPS if they're beating earnings what do we think the mega caps do and then when you get a rate cut this market it could be 19 freaking 89 all over again. I'm telling you I think people are wrong. I don't think we're at freaking dinner or coffee. I don't even think we made it out the door to dinner yet.
>> I I do think the Fed cutting it at alltime highs is bullish and then if tomorrow earnings are good that's bullish and then if the AI momentum keeps going that's but like and then all these companies I mean what significant company has missed earnings badly? I haven't seen I've covered pretty much all of them and if they miss it's by you know a tiny percentage and maybe their stock falls because they're priced to perfection but there's not like oh Broadcom missed by 20%. Like there's in 2022 that was like every other day you would have a company miss dramatically.
>> Yeah. I just whenever I hear that this is 1999 again or 2000 we're getting very close to the bubble. You know I've been Dan Ives has been saying 96. I've been saying it's 89 because I think we're going to have retracements, but I think ultimately we're going to be in a new age of growth for the market. I really do.
>> I agree. All right, so we got the SoFi call in a minute. Uh we're going to turn over to Notto in a second.
>> At least I have
>> I mean you can go get Oh, where'd you get the Starbucks from?
>> I told you I went outside in shorts and it was freezing out. Oh, I thought you said like yesterday you did that and
>> No, this morning I didn't go outside for my health. Went outside to get coffee,
>> bro. You didn't get me any coffee.
>> That would have been a really good magic trick if I could have got you coffee for the stream. I mean,
>> what do you mean magic? All you have to do is drive over and hand me some.
>> I guess if I thought about it, I could have freaking Uber Uber eats it to your house and had it show up on your doorstep.
>> Could have. You really didn't. Problem is, I've never used Uber Eats. And I gotta say, one of my co-workers, she's freaking awesome. She makes fun of me so much. She says I'm elderly because I still call restaurants.
>> You've told us the story like 50 times.
>> Hilarious.
>> Like, I'm not elderly.
>> I feel like you have a lot of pride for saying that you call restaurants because you tell us every time. And it's like, we know you like calling restaurants. You don't call restaurants to order?
>> No, no one freaking calls. You're the only person who does this
>> I'm not the only person. I have like 15 restaurants on my contact list.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's, you know, it's it's impressive. I I have none.
>> All right, let's see if Soi's live
>> session.
>> All right, they're live. Here we go.
>> Simply press star followed by the number one on your telephone keypad. If you would like to withdraw your question, please press star followed by two. Thank you. With that, you may begin your conference.
>> Thank you and good morning. Welcome to SoFi's third quarter 2025 earnings conference call. Joining me today to talk about our results in recent events are Anthony Notto, CEO, and Chris Le Point, CFO. You can find the presentation accompanying our earnings release on the investor relations section of our website. Unless otherwise stated, we'll be referring to adjusted results for the third quarter of 2025 versus the third quarter of 2024. Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations and forecasts and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to our competitive advantage and strategy, macroeconomic conditions and outlook, future products and services, and future business and financial performance. Our GAP consolidated income statement and all reconciliations can be found in today's earnings release in a subsequent 10Q filing which will be made available next month. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are described in today's press release and our subsequent filings made with the SEC, including our upcoming form 10Q. Any forward-looking statements that we may make on this call are based on assumptions as of today. We undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Anthony. Thank you and good morning everyone. We had an excellent third quarter. Our one-stop shop strategy is firing on all cylinders as we continue to deliver exceptional financial performance while also investing in our business to drive durable growth and strong returns over the long term. In fact, our focus on product innovation and brand building has never been stronger. There's more happening at SoFi today than at any other time in my eight years with the company. We are stepping on the gas to accelerate the investment in our existing businesses and entering new areas like crypto and blockchain AI SoFi pay providing fiat and crypto banking services and so much more. I'll discuss some of these efforts momentarily, but first let me cover our key results for the quarter. Starting with the drivers of our durable growth, we added a record 95,000 new members in Q3, increasing total members by 35% year-over-year. a slight acceleration to 12.6 million SoFi members. We also added a record 1.4 million new products, also representing an acceleration in growth to 36% year-over-year and over 18.6 million products. Crossby reached its highest level since 2022 with 40% of new products opened by existing SoFi members. Our cross by rate has increased in each of the past four quarters, demonstrating the effectiveness of our one-stop shop strategy. Our strong member and product growth powered our revenue growth in the third quarter. Adjusted net revenue was a record at $950 million, up 38% year-over-year. Together, our financial services and technology platform segments generated revenue of $534 million, which is up 57% year-over-year and now represents 56% of total revenue. This is the first time these segments have generated more than half a billion dollars of quarterly revenue. In our lending segment, adjusted net revenue grew 23% year-over-year to $481 million through by strong originations in the segment of $6.6 6 billion, up 23% from the prior year. Combined with the very strong $3.4 billion in originations in the loan platform business, total originations reached a record of $9.9 billion for the third quarter. This is an increase of $1.2 billion from our prior record. I'm also proud to report that total feebased revenue across our business was also a quarterly record at $49 million, up 50% from the prior year, driven by strong performance from our loan platform business, origination fees, referral fees, interchange revenue, and brokerage fee revenue. On an annualized basis, we're now generating over $1.6 billion of feebased revenue, reflecting the deliberate diversification of our business towards more capital light revenue streams. In addition to delivering durable growth, we delivered strong returns and profitability. In the third quarter, adjusted EVA was a record at $277 million, up nearly 50% year-over-year. Our adjusted EVA margin for the quarter was 29%. Our incremental EBIDA margin was 35% as we continue to balance reinvesting in the business to deliver long-term growth and delivering profitability. Net income for the quarter was $139 million at a margin of 14%. Earnings per share were 11. Finally, our tangible book value ended the quarter at $7.2 billion, which includes the benefit from a successful opportunistic capital raise during the quarter. Over the past two years, we have more than doubled our tangible book value. Our diversified business is uniquely built to deliver a winning combination of growth and returns. One way to measure the success is the rule of 40 calculation, which is revenue growth plus IBA margin. We've beaten the rule of 40 benchmark every quarter since going public. That's 17 straight quarters. Over that time, our average rule of 40 score is 58, making us a top performer among fintexs and technology companies more broadly. And this quarter, we hit 67%. Despite these exceptionally strong results, I know that we are just getting started. The addressable markets across each of our products are massive in the United States, let alone in addition to international markets. In 2026 and beyond, we will uniquely start to benefit from both of the technology super cycles in AI and blockchain where almost every other industry only benefits from one. And with nearly 13 million members, the unmatched capabilities of our technology, and the business scale of $3.8 $20 billion in annualized revenue and a $45 billion balance sheet. We have a rock-solid foundation to build on. Given these dynamics, I've never been more optimistic about our prospects than I am today. This is why we are further accelerating our level of investment to make our existing products even better by providing the best speed, selection, and experience to build new products to help our members get their money right and to further strengthen our trusted brand name. Our investments will power our durable growth and drive stronger returns as we continue to scale. Let me now spend a moment discussing our brand building efforts which are key to driving new members to SoFi and create a halo effect across our entire offering. During the third quarter, we launched an exciting new partnership with the NFL's most valuable player, Josh Allen, to promote the most valuable product and financial services, SoFi Plus. Our partnership with Josh is resonating with NFL fans, driving a 35% increase in unaded brand awareness among that target audience. Along with our broader marketing efforts, we drove unaded brand awareness to an all-time high of 9.1% during the quarter from last quarter's record of 8.5% and more than 4x higher than it was when we went public. Turning now to our product innovation. Last quarter, I spoke about how we are an unprecedented point in time with two technology super cycles taking place in crypto, blockchain, and AI. These super cycles have the power to completely reinvent the future of financial services, and we have moved fast to take advantage of these opportunities. I'm pleased to report that this week we launched our first payment product that leverages blockchain technology to provide fast, seamless, lowcost, and safe international payments with the launch of SoFi Pay. SoFi Pay gives members the ability to seamlessly send money in local fiat abroad by leveraging a layer 2 blockchain network and delivering local fiat into the account of the recipient. It's fully automated in the SoFi app at sniffly faster speeds and lower costs compared to traditional services. Members will first be able to send money to Mexico with planned stage rollouts in Europe and South America in the near future. The SoFi Pay wallet will over time integrate SoFi USD stablecoin that we hope to launch in 2026. We also have plans to offer the SoFi Pay app natively in international markets for foreign citizens to send money to the US and many other international markets. This is another addition to our unprecedented money movement offering which allows members to seamlessly send money through person-toperson payments with a phone number or email address as well as zel AC self-s serve wires and now the ability to send money internationally with SoFi pay. I am also excited to share that this quarter we'll be launching actually relaunching the ability to buy, sell, and hold crypto assets which will give members access to dozens of tokens directly in our SoFi app. Beyond offering the best selection, we will also be providing the best speed and convenience. Members can instantly fund buying cryptocurrencies from their FDIC insured SoFi money account, all within the integrated SoFi app. Members will also have the ability to transfer the crypto assets to SoFi and benefit from our broad range of products that are seamlessly integrated with our SoFi North American Bank. And because many of our members may be new to crypto investing, we will support them with the best content to help them understand crypto investing and provide them with the peace of mind that comes from working with a regulated bank. But this is just the beginning of our ambitious crypto and blockchain product roadmap that will continue to come to life in 2026. I could not be more excited about the product roadmap and the multitude of use cases we have for our planned stable coin SoFi USD and our ability to differentiate a stable coin like no other company given our unique bank license technology capabilities portfolio products and technology platform services. Turning now to the other super cycle AI. We continue to test and implement a number of AI applications across our business. Behind the scenes, AI technology has been key to streamlining our operations to better serve our members. This has included using AI to promote higher quality engagement and giving our frontline member service team AIdriven tools to more quickly identify and resolve member issues. AI is also now being used to directly support members. Our AI support chat is helping members resolve questions in an efficient way, driving a noticeable impact on member satisfaction. It's currently integrated with our money and card products and will be rolled out across the entire SoFi platform this quarter. We've also launched the AIdriven Cash Coach to qualifying members. Here's how it works. From the home screen, members see a button saying cash to optimize. By tapping that button, the cash coach will look across both their SoFi and external accounts to see where cash utilization is suboptimal and provide them with personalized financial suggestions. For example, if a member is earning just two lousy basis points of interest on deposits with a big bank, it may suggest moving that cash to a SoFi account earning 3.8%. Paying down a big bank credit card balance from a big bank that has a 25% interest rate. Cash Coach is just the beginning. Next year, we will launch a more comprehensive SoFi coach that incorporates insights across all areas of financial activity, not just cash, which will be able to help members understand how to spend less than they make and invest the rest by breaking down what they must do, what they should do, and what they can do every day across their entire financial lives. For example, they could ask the SoFi coach questions like, "How has my credit score changed? How can I reduce my cost of debt? How much do I spend on subscriptions? How diversified is my portfolio? How is my investing compared to others my age? Over time, SoFi Coach will be able to do even more, like provide investment and lending options to choose from, help set up and track goals, and simplify processes like cancelling subscriptions and optimizing reward points. We are so excited about how this AIdriven tool will help engage members and help them spend less than they make so they can invest the rest. Ultimately, SoFi Coach will supercharge our financial services productivity loop and lead to a deeper relationship that drive a higher lifetime value. Turning now to product innovation within our segments, starting with the financial services segment and the loan platform business. LPB has been a gamecher for SoFi, diversifying our lending activity in a capital light, low-risk way. It's a prime example of how we can leverage our unique tech, customer acquisition, and operations capabilities to to build a differentiated platform at scale. During the third quarter, we originated $3.4 billion of loans through our loan platform business, an increase of over $900 million from just last quarter. On an annualized basis, after just one year, this business is now running at a pace of over$1 13 billion of originations and $660 million of high margin, high return feebased revenue. Importantly, we continue to increase the loan platform business near-term volume that is outside of our traditional credit box, effectively monetizing more of the roughly $100 billion of loan applications that we were not able to meet each year. Looking ahead, the opportunity for this business remains significant and demand from our partners continues to increase. Recently, as some concerns have emerged within the private credit markets, we've actually seen our LPB partners lean in to do more with SoFi, not less, reflecting a flight to quality and durability through interest rate and economic cycles. We have worked hard over the last eight years to develop unique skills in underwriting, marketing, pricing, insights, and data. And as such, we are benefiting from this flight to quality. Turning to invest, earlier this month we launched level one options which has been consistently a requested feature by our members. Options are another way we are providing access to our members that they otherwise wouldn't have so they can build portfolios that align with their financial goals. As part of this rollout, we also provide educational resources explaining how options work, the risks involved, and how to integrate them responsibly into a diversified investment strategy. Beyond options, we're also expanding our unmatched selection in the third quarter by providing access to IPOs like StubHub, CLA, and Figma, and by launching the Sofi Agentic AI ETF. During the quarter, we also improved our features to make our invest products more intuitive and engaging. For example, we launched 247 instant transfers between invest and money. And we launched embedded rollovers and an enhanced rollover tracker giving members full visibility and control over their 401k rollover process. In the fourth quarter, we'll be making a number of additional enhancements. We are very excited about the progress made to build an investment platform that provides our members with way more options than what they would typically have access to. Turning now to SoFi Money, which has been a core part of our financial services productivity loop. In three years after acquiring our banking license, we have 6.3 million products and 33 billion of deposits. Our attractive APY is a compelling reason for members to make us their primary financial institution. But members also come to us for our best-in-class products and continue innovation. For example, we will soon be launching the SoFi Smart Card, a new card that brings together the best features to help our members spend, save, and pay better. It will be part of our SoFi Plus offering, and it will serve as a platform for continuous innovation. The card will offer 5% back on food, our highest interest rate on deposits, credit builder capabilities, borrowing capabilities, and so much more. This is yet another way in which we are pushing the limits on what is possible with banking products. Turning now to our lending segment. Lending is the most tenured core capability of SoFi and is how our business got its start. Since that time, we have made significant uh progress strengthening both our member acquisition and our underwriting capabilities. For loans that we hold on our balance sheet, we focus exclusively on high prime and superprime borrowers with strong cash flow and FICO scores. In fact, the average FICO score of our personal loan borrower is 745 and our student loan borrower is 773. But we don't stop at credit scores. We use tried and trueue underwriting techniques to assess each individual borrower's cash flow and their ability to repay their loan. We are able to do this effectively at scale because of our innovative originations platform that leverages advanced technology and digitally enabled processes. The result is excellent credit performance that continues today. In fact, during the third quarter, we saw our net charge off rates improve even as there has been moderate signs of stress showing up for some other companies. For both personal loans and student loans, net charge offs were down more than 20 basis points in the third quarter. We also have a strong track record of building great lending products that help our members create a better future. For example, our innovative personal loan product allows members to refinance observably expensive credit card debt held at other institutions to save their hard-earned money. No longer will overachievers be suckered into chasing rewards only to realize they are paying over 20% interest on unpaid principal balances while earning essentially no interest on that same bank's deposit account. We've recently made this product even more attractive to our members by rolling out an interestonly period to raise awareness of the personal loan product and help ease the transition from making credit card payments to making personal loan payments. Similarly, in student lending, we have completely changed the game, becoming the preeminent company for refinancing student debt at more affordable rates. Our student loan refinance product can reduce a member's interest rate by a couple hundred basis points, which will have a meaningful impact with a $40,000 loan balance. In fact, we estimate that we will save our members over $100 million in interest expense just on the student loans we refinanced during the third quarter. This is why we've made our product even more attractive by rolling out a feature that allows for the gradual step up in payments to help members find their footing. We look forward to helping even more members refinance their student loans as interest rates come down in the future. Turning now to home lending where we are seeing very strong results. In the midst of the higher rate environment, we built and launched a home equity loan product to help members take advantage of their equity that has been built up in their homes, particularly over the last few years. In the third quarter, just one year after launch, we originated over $350 million of home equity loans, helping us set a record of $945 million of originations for all of home lending. In fact, Q4 will likely be the first quarter where we generate more revenue from home loans than from student loan referance, which was our first product and the largest product prior to CO. At the same time, we're preparing for lower rates to further accelerate our home loans business in 2026. We've not only strengthened our operations, but we have also enhanced our product to make them very attractive to our estimated 3 million members who currently have mortgages elsewhere and to those who may be first-time home buyers. We believe our offering will drive strong growth as the market opens up. Turning to our tech platform segment, this business has been instrumental in our ability to innovate across the SoFi platform and it's now allowing a broader range of companies to bring innovative programs that drive greater loyalty and engagement to their customers. In fact, today we are incredibly excited to announce our newest partnership with one of the largest airlines in North America, Southwest Airlines, to power their rapid rewards debit card, which combines the convenience of debit payments while earning points on everyday purchases. We've also signed on two major consumer brands, our largest shet, which will be announced in due course. These partnerships are a reflection of the strong and growing demand for our marketleading technology to power embedded financial products at scale for some of the most well-known brands around the world. As you can see, it was an eventful third quarter at SoFi, and we are as energized as ever as we wrap up the year and head into 2026. With that, let me now turn the call over to Chris. Thank you, Anthony. We've delivered another strong quarter as we continue to drive durable growth and strong returns on the way to delivering record revenue in our eighth consecutive profitable quarter. For the quarter, revenue grew 38% year-over-year to a record $950 million. Adjusted EVA was also a record at $277 million and a margin of 29%. Net income was $139 million at a margin of 14%. And earnings per share was 11 cents. Similar to the last two quarters, this included a small benefit related to a lower tax rate. An important driver of our growth was the increased contribution from Capitalite non- lending as well as feebased revenue sources. Our non- lending businesses generated $534 million of revenue up 57% year-over-year. And we also generated record feebased revenue across all segments of $49 million, up 50% year-over-year. Turning now to our segment performance. In terms of financial services for the third quarter, net revenue was $420 million, up 76% year-over-year. Contribution profit was $226 million, up nearly 2.3x from last year. Contribution margin was 54% up from 42% last year. Net interest income for this segment was $24 million, up 32% year-over-year, which was primarily driven by growth in member deposits. Non-interest income grew nearly 2.6x to $216 million for the quarter, which equates to over $860 million in highquality feebased income on an annualized basis. Importantly, improved monetization continues its strong contribution to revenue growth. Financial services revenue per product surpassed $100 for the first time, reaching a record $104 in the third quarter. That's up over 28% year-over-year. And we see continued upside as newer products mature. In Q3, our loan platform business generated $168 million in adjusted net revenue, up 29% from just last quarter. Of this, $165 million was driven by the $3.4 $4 billion of personal loans originated on behalf of third parties as well as referrals. Additionally, LPB generated $3 million from servicing cash flows, which is recorded in our lending segment. The growth opportunity for this business continues to be very strong. Beyond our LPB revenue, we continue to see healthy growth in interchange, up 55% year-over-year, driven by close to 20 billion in total annualized spend in the quarter across money and credit card. Shifting to our tech platform, for the third quarter, we delivered net revenue of $115 million, up 12% year-over-year. Contribution profit was $32 million at a contribution margin of 28%. Revenue growth was driven by continued monetization of existing clients along with new deals signed in new client segments. Turning now to our lending segment. For the third quarter, adjusted net revenue was $481 million, up 23% from the same period last year. Contribution profit was $262 million with a 54% contribution margin. These strong results were primarily driven by growth in net interest income, which increased 35% year-over-year to $428 million. During the quarter, we had record total loan originations of $9.9 billion, up 57% year-over-year. Personal loan originations were a record at $7.5 billion, of which $3.4 billion was originated on behalf of third parties through LPB. In total, personal loan originations were up 53% year-over-year. Student loan originations were $1.5 billion, up 58% from the same period last year. And home loan originations were a record $945 million, a year-over-year increase of nearly 2x. Capital markets activity was very strong in the third quarter. We sold and transferred through our loan platform business a record $4.6 6 billion of personal, home, and student loans. In terms of personal loans, we closed $175 million of sales in whole loan form at a blended execution of 106.4%. All deals had similar structures to other recent personal loan sales with cash proceeds at or nearpar and the majority of the premium consisting of contractual servicing fees that are capitalized. These sales included a small loss share provision that is above our base assumption of losses and immaterial relative to the exposure we would have had otherwise if we held on to the loans. Additionally, we sold $90 million of latestage delinquent personal loans. By selling these loans, we're able to generate positive incremental value over time versus selling after they charge off, both from our improved recovery capabilities and by maintaining servicing. In terms of home loan sales, we closed $585 million at a blended execution of 102.9%. And in terms of student loan sales, we closed $377 million at a blended execution of 105.9%. In addition to our loan sales, we executed a $466 million securization of loans originated through our loan platform business. This channel provides our partners with meaningful liquidity to support their ongoing investment in the loan platform business. The transaction priced at industry-leading cost of funds levels with a weighted average spread of 98 basis points. Turning to credit performance, the health of our consumer remains strong and our credit continues to improve. Our personal loan borrowers have a weighted average income of $157,000 and a weighted average FICO score of $745. While our student loan borrowers also have a weighted average income of $157,000 with a weighted average FICO score of 773. For personal loans, the annualized charge off rate declined by more than 20 basis points to 2.6% from 2.83% in the prior quarter. Had we not sold any late stage delinquencies, we estimate that including recoveries between 90 and 120 days delinquent, we would have had an all-in annualized net charge off rate for personal loans of approximately 4.2% versus 4.5% last quarter. The onbalance sheet 90-day delinquency rate was 43 basis points, consistent with the prior quarter. For student loans, the annualized charge off rate also declined more than 20 basis points to 69 basis points from 94 basis points in the prior quarter. The onbalance sheet 90-day delinquency rate was 14 basis points, consistent with the prior quarter. The data continues to support our 7 to8% net cumulative loss assumption for personal loans in line with our underwriting tolerance. Although we continue to trend below these levels, our recent vintages originated from Q4 2022 to Q4 2024 have net cumulative losses of 4.4% with 39% unpaid principal balance remaining. This is well below the 6.08% observed at the same point in time for the 2017 vintage, the last vintage that approached our 7 to 8% tolerance. The gap between the newer cohort curve and the 2017 cohort curve widened by a more favorable 29 basis points after a widening improvement of 19 basis points in Q2. Additionally, looking at our Q1 2020 through Q2 2025 originations, 60% of principal has already been paid down with 6.7% in net cumulative losses. Therefore, for LIFA loan losses on this entire cohort of loans to reach 8%, the charge off rate on the remaining 40% of unpaid principal would need to be approximately 10%. This would be well above past levels, further underscoring our confidence in achieving loss rates below our 8% tolerance. Turning to our fair value marks and key assumptions. As a reminder, we mark our loans at fair value each quarter, which considers a number of factors, including the weighted average coupon, the constant default rate, the conditional prepayment rate, and the discount rate comprised of benchmark rates and spreads. At the end of the third quarter, our personal loans were marked at 105.7% in line with the prior quarter. This was primarily a function of a lower benchmark rate which was mo mostly offset by higher prepayments and a modest change to the weighted average coupon as well as a modest change to the annual default rate which was driven by loan vintage seasoning not changes to the individual loan loss assumptions. At the end of the third quarter, our student loans were also marked at 105.7% down nine basis points from the prior quarter. This was a function of a modest decrease in the weighted average coupon partially offset by a lower benchmark rate. Turning to our balance sheet, in July we raised $1.7 billion of new capital in the form of common equity. This opportunistic raise significantly increased our capital levels and allowed us to reduce our higher cost debt by $1.2 billion, making our balance sheet even stronger and giving us great flexibility to pursue growth opportunities. In the third quarter, including this new capital, total assets grew by $4.2 billion. This was driven by $2.7 billion of loan growth and approximately $1.2 billion of growth in cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities. Total companywide cash at quarter end was $3.7 billion. On the liability side, total deposits grew by $3.4 4 billion to $32.9 billion, primarily driven by growth in member deposits. Net interest margin was 5.84% for the quarter, down two basis points sequentially. This included a seven basis point decrease in average yields as we saw a modest mix shift from personal loans to home and student loans and a three basis point increase in cost of funds which was mostly offset by strong growth in interest earning assets. We continue to expect healthy net interest margins above 5% for the foreseeable future. In terms of our regulatory capital ratios, we remain very well capitalized. Our total capital ratio of 20.2% at quarter end is well above the regulatory minimum of 10 a.5% as well as our additional internal stress buffer. Tangible book value grew $ 1.9 billion sequentially to $7.2 $2 billion, including the benefit from the new capital raised. And tangible book value per share at quarter end is $5.97, up from $48 a year ago, a 46% increase. Let me now finish by providing our revised outlook for 2025. As we head into fourth quarter for the full year 2025, we now expect to add approximately 3.5 million members, which represents approximately 34% year-over-year growth, above our prior guidance of 3 million members and 30% growth. We now expect adjusted net revenue of approximately 3.54 billion, above our prior guidance of 3.375 billion. This equates to year-over-year growth of approximately 36%, an increase from our prior guide of 30%. We now expect an adjusted EBIDA of approximately 1.035 billion above our prior guidance of $960 million. This represents a 29% margin. We now expect adjusted net income of approximately $455 million above our prior guidance of $370 million. an adjusted EPS of approximately 37 cents above our prior guidance of 31 cents. This equates to fourth quarter adjusted EPS of approximately 12 cents which assumes a Q4 tax rate of approximately 10%. We now expect growth in tangible book value of approximately $2.5 billion for the year above our prior guidance of around $640 million. We've had a great year thus far and look forward to a strong finish. Let's now begin the Q&A. At this time, I'd like to remind everyone in order to ask
>> All right, questions. Q&A. Here we go.
>> Question per person at a time. Please rejoin the queue for any additional questions. Our first question comes from the line of Dan Dolvo. Dan, please go ahead. Your line is open.
>> Hey, uh, Chris Anthony. Uh, amazing job. Uh, very, very, uh, proud of you guys. um wanted to know I mean the question we're getting from investors um for the past like month or so is consumer credit I mean you guys have done incredibly well uh looking at NOS's coming down but can you give us an overview of you know what's going on maybe there's a FICO sort of differentiated thing here that helps soy just maybe an overall view of like how the health of the consumer credit across the different uh FICO trenches would be great and congrats again
>> sure thank you Dan um the First message is our credit is performing very well. We have very strong uh performance by our members across each of the products. Not just the performance of credit but the spending that we see in SoFi money, the engagement that we see in SoFi invest uh and general behavior overall. Um we've been in the lending business for a pretty long period of time. When I joined in 2018, one of our key priorities was focused on quality of our loans over quantity and to make sure that those loans were durable through an economic cycle and through an interest rate cycle and any liquidity dislocations. Um, and so we're constantly making changes to what marketing channels we're in, the trade-off between pricing and credit approvals, um, the unit economics of a loan. We focus on having a 40 to 50% variable profit margin on our loans. Uh and so sometimes we can drive more volume, sometimes we can drive higher margin. Um but it's a constant data science uh opportunity for us to perfect our loans. And the strength of the consumer loans performance speaks for itself. It's in the numbers. You can see our net charge offs declined, i.e. improved uh versus last quarter. Uh if you go back over the last couple of years, you'll see that we made a lot of credit changes to ensure the performance stayed high quality um when we went through a 500 basis point interest increase and now we're seeing rates come down. So um we're seeing really strong uh trends in the channels and great demand from highquality borrowers and we feel really confident if anything changes we'll make the adjustments accordingly. to remind everyone, we focus on a lifelong loss between seven and 8% and all indications are that we're we're below that as Chris has mentioned in the past.
>> Yeah. And the only other thing I would add to Anony's points is that we're also seeing really good demand from capital markets partners uh which we view as as a flight to quality. So all in all, we we remain vigilant as always, but our balance sheet is is strong with high quality loans, excess capital, and solid liquidity. and our partners are active and looking to expand their relationships with us and that's a true testament to the credit that we're underwriting.
>> The next question comes from John Hec from Jeff. John, please go ahead. Your line is open.
>> John, you may be on mute. John,
>> sorry guys, apologize. technical difficulties, but uh congratulations on a good quarter and thanks for taking my questions. Um I I guess my my question is predominantly around the rate environment, you know, decreasing rates if you think about the forward curve. I'm wondering if you guys could talk about how the the lower rate environment will affect the volume mix uh on the lending side and particularly you know at what point do you think there could be a pretty big spike in student loan refinance activity and then second and related is maybe talk about what you guys expect in terms of deposit uh debata and what that means for NIM over the next few quarters.
>> Thank you John. Um, you know, we've said this in the past. Um, our business is diverse, not because we woke up and said we should make our business diverse, but because of our strategy of being a one-stop shop. We've scaled our businesses across the portfolio of products that we offer being a one-stop shop. Uh, to a level that in environments, we can drive different businesses based on the characteristics of that environment. When rates were high, we took a specific strategy. As rates are coming down, we're taking an alternative strategy and it's working. If rates stay exactly where they are, I think our business continues to operate incredibly well. I couldn't be more optimistic about our near-term trends and what we'll do in 2026 relative to our our prior long-term guidance. So, I feel great about the environment we're in right now. I do I do worry about things like credit. I do worry about things like um you know, height heightened inflation. Um we look at asset flows, etc., etc. So, it's not like we're not worried about things. We just feel really good about the positive things versus the things that could cause a problem. As rates come down, I think our business only gets better. If we stay with unemployment below five to 5 and a half% um and inflation's at 3%, I think we're in a really great environment. I'm not a student of believing inflation should be 2%. I think 3% is perfectly fine. Um I think we have global stability that will also be important. Um I think about things that could disrupt us as one economic i.e. unemployment uh two financial liquidity rates are coming down not going up and then three is the macroeconomic factors that are out of our control and exogenous events. Um as rates go down our student loan business will benefit meaningfully. Rates have been very high for the last three years. Federal student rates are high and we can give them a significant savings on a $70,000 balance. So we'll benefit from lower rates in student loan refinancing. Uh for sure the the home equity market, the home loan market, the real estate market more broadly will benefit from lower rates both in refinancing as well as purchase. Um as relates to refinancing, less than 5% of our members that have mortgages have them with us. So, if you take everyone that's on our platform that's using SoFi and you look at the number of those people that have home loans or mortgages, only 5% of those with mortgages are with us. It's a huge opportunity for us to market lower cost of a mortgage to them. And we have the technology to know where their rates are, to deliver personalized messages to them, and we've built the backend and operational capabilities to deliver a reliable mortgage in a specific uh period of time. So, we feel really great about that. As it relates to SoFi money, I've said this in the past, I'll say it again. It's starting to show itself now. In a high rate environment, non-banks can compete with us on interest rate. Many choose not to because they're trying to make more money with NIM, but it's easy when rates are high when Fed funds are high. When Fed funds is low, it's going to be really hard for non-bank and non- lending companies to compete with us. Our competitive advantage will come through and show the world that we have the highest lifetime value and a broad-based PL uh portfolio of products allows us to give a superior yield when others are struggling to provide that yield because of the fact that we have both lending and we're insured deposit institution and we have a broad-based membership that we can market to efficiently for Crossby. In the most recent quarter, 40% of our product growth came from Crossby. That's with our members growing 35%. Chris, would you add anything?
>> Yeah, the only other thing I would add, um, John, to your your comments on deposit betas and and NIM over the next few quarters, we've been really successful in maintaining healthy NIM margins. Uh, this past quarter, we were at 5.84%. Maintaining these strong margins has been a function of the loan pricing betas that we have as well as obviously our cost of funds. What we've demonstrated on the loan pricing betas uh front is in uh rising rate environments, we've been able to outpace rates and and maintain really strong pricing. In down rate environments, we've been able to maintain solid pricing um above where rates have gone. And then from an asset yield perspective, um we've been able to maintain strong asset yields and reduce our overall cost of deposits all while maintaining healthy growth in member deposits last quarter. Historically, we've been at about a 65 to 70% uh deposit beta. We would expect that to continue going forward.
>> The next question comes from Kyle Joseph from Stevens. Kyle, please go ahead. Your line is open.
>> Hey, uh good morning guys. Thanks for taking my question. Um just uh just wanted to get your thoughts on the competitive environment. Obviously, we saw your guidance for membership growth go up, which is obviously a positive. you know, is that a function of just in kind of internal marketing efforts and brand awareness or, you know, can we step back and think about things potentially getting less competitive out there? I think you talked about capital providers and and the flight to quality you're seeing. So, just want to get your commentary there.
>> Um, it's a it's a function of many factors. First, unated brand awareness. Our goal is to drive unated brand awareness higher. It provides productivity across our digital marketing capabilities and performance marketing. And so uh we talked about the 9.1% unated brand awareness that we achieved in in uh Q3. Uh that we expect to continue into Q4. Uh we have a number of new product launches that will also contribute that will not just contribute directly um because there are new products but they'll also contribute indirectly and that they're raising awareness that we're a one-stop shop. Um specifically our goal is to launch buy, sell, and hold crypto by the end of the year. um will cachina roll out SoFi pay uh to other international markets. And so the second bucket is is new products. And then the third um we have a pretty good understanding of what channels to market what products in um and have a good read on customer acquisition cost by channel. Um and so we're just ensuring that we continue to add more marketing at an efficient rate uh focused on you know profitability and growth. And it's our confidence in being able to do that uh in a bigger way in Q4 than we did in Q3. Um in addition to the the new product uh launches that we'll have and the benefit from any brand awareness. So that's driving our confidence. Uh I will tell you our goal is to continue to move along a linear curve to make sure that we're not um falling off that efficient frontier of marketing and brand awareness and spending. Um but there's a lot of upside from spending at efficient rates if we chose to grow even faster. The next question comes from Andrew Jeffrey at William Blair. Andrew, please go ahead. Your line is open.
>> Thank you. Uh, appreciate you taking the question this morning. Um, Anthony, as you see faster growth in the non-personal loans business, which I think is really encouraging from a diversification standpoint, does that change your thought on how you fund that growth on balance sheet? um you know deposit driven versus the loan platform business and are there opportunities in the loan platform business for non-personal loan? I'm just trying to think about what the funding mix looks like as the origination mix shifts a little bit.
>> Sure. There are definitely opportunities in the loan platform business from non-personal loans and Chris and the capital markets team is working on that. Um, you know, funding off of deposits is definitely uh a element that drives our durability and our confidence in lending. Um, the dependency on deposits will likely uh reduce over time and our cost of funds will also likely come down over time based on a bunch of decisions that that we we make as it relates to uh how to spend our capital. Um, I do think you'll continue to see us drive revenue streams that are not connected to capital. um you know 56% of our revenue is now coming from our tech platform and financial services business um and that's up pretty meaningfully over time and you can see the benefit to our profitability line and our roe and our tangible book value growth uh related to that. So uh there's a number of initiatives that we have that we haven't talked about publicly that will also help as we leverage blockchain technologies uh in the lending space specifically that will help drive uh strong uh you know diversification of funding uh for our balance sheet.
>> Next question comes from Kyle Peterson at Needam and Co. Kyle, please go ahead. Your line is open.
>> Uh great. Uh good morning. Thanks for taking the question and uh nice results. Uh wanted to drill down into the loan platform business in particular. Uh I know there was at least another fintech lender that kind of recently said that at least some of the the loan, you know, buyers and and such on um from institutional investors were kind of consolidating uh purchases to kind of fewer platforms. I guess was the strength this quarter? Was it broad-based in terms of you guys adding uh you know participants on on the platform on the on the funding side or or was it you know fairly concentrated with existing partners just any color there and if you guys are seeing anything uh similar uh would be really helpful. Thank you.
>> Yeah, thanks Kyle. Um so we saw growth growth across both um new partners as well as existing partners who who have partnerships with us. Um what we actually saw is a bit of a flight to quality where existing partner a number of existing partners came to us and asked to upsize um their commitments not only in Q3 but Q4. So we expect continued momentum to occur in in the last quarter of the year. Um and then we also saw some growth in in new partners as well as expanded credit. So net net it was growth across the board.
>> The next question comes from Reggie Smith at JP Morgan. Reggie, please go ahead. Your line is open.
>> Hey guys, uh great quarter. Um I guess I had to follow up on on the loan platform business as well. Um, is there a way to kind of frame the numbers the number of uh of buyers on the platform and and kind of what your next four quarter capacity looks like? Um, and then also talk about the process. I think you mentioned this Samuel Chris about, you know, how companies upsize uh their commitments. cut out there at the end um Reggie, but I think you asked about the process for how companies upsize their commitments. In terms of your first question about the number of buyers on the platform and what the next quarter's capacity looks like, um we aren't going to disclose the number of buyers that we have. We have disclosed a few publicly um with Fortress and Blue Owl. Um but we have a number of partners on the platform. Uh what capacity looks like next quarter, we did $3.4 4 billion of originations on behalf of others this past quarter and Q3. We expect that to um to continue to grow heading into Q4. In terms of how companies upsize their commitments, um they typically come to us intraquarter. Um if they have excess capac capacity or demand for incremental loans um and if we're able to fulfill um by the end of the quarter, we'll we'll do so. and the behavior we're seeing of consolidation down to higher quality. Um, we're definitely that you mentioned, we think we're benefiting from that based on the activity we've seen from those partners.
>> The next question comes from Peter Christensen from Croup. Peter, please go ahead. Your line is open.
>> Thank you. Good morning. Thanks for the question and uh nice trends here for sure. Um, Anthony, I just wonder can you remind us where we are in your investment cycle perhaps not just like the marketing and performance marketing branding those sorts of things but maybe more so in capabilities. I know I know you're uh going to be onboarding some some new clients in on the tech platform pretty soon and now building out crypto whether that's partnered or native. Just if you could frame for us where we are in the investment cycle. Thank you. Yeah, I would I would like to invest a lot more than we're investing, but we're trying to balance both growth and being responsible for delivering profitability and good returns. Um, we don't want to go after, you know, penniles growth. And so, the the the gating factor that we've put on and talked about publicly is to have at least a 30% incremental ebida margin. And I say the word at least because if the business does well relative to expectations, it it's hard to spend back in a quarter. Um, you know, we may accelerate some hiring, uh, but that really doesn't impact the near-term quarter. It impacts the next quarter. And we have hired a lot more people in 2025 than we set out at the beginning of the year because we've been driving both strong topline growth and really strong incremental profitability. Um, I would love to spend every dollar we could down to that 30% incremental margin. It's not always possible to do that. Um that 30% criminal ebida margin will be the standard until we see our growth drop below call it 15%. I think as long as we're growing above that we should invest in the business to make the top line as large as it can be and then over time um we can slow down our spending and drive margin expansion. But we're definitely not in the mode of driving driving margin expansion unless we out outperform compared to the 30% incremental evid margin. Um the areas we're investing is we'll continue to iterate on our existing products. We're focused every day on five things of our existing products. Fast selection, content, and convenience and then make them better together. Um there's some products that are new that we'll increase the investment in such as SoFi Plus. We're really pleased with the progress we've made there. Um there will be additional things that we add into SoFi Plus as it relates to value. One of which is the smart card. We think it's the best of any card. It'll have high rewards, 5% on food. Um, it'll also have high interest or highest APY. Um, in addition to that, you can also build your credit score and you'll be able to use that relationship with us to potentially borrow um both ahead of time and and post transactions. And that will be an evolving uh feature set after we launch that will continue based on how we learn our members want to use the product. um but focusing on the smart things that they want and making that get making it have the best of everything. Um we talked about cash coach on the call. There's a number of AI initiatives to help people spend less than they make and invest the rest. Um it is a unique formula that we can deliver on in addition to the investing piece. You know, one of the things that's interesting about our buy, sell, and hold for crypto is that the way we'll launch this product is going to be pretty novel. Someone will open up a SoFi money account if they don't have a SoFi money account. They'll fund that SoFi money account and then all their purchases are drawn from that SoFi money account. What's the benefit of that? Well, that SoFi money account has FDIC insurance and we've added additional insurance for our members if they opt in up to $2 million, not just $250,000. So someone can have an FDIC insured uh bank account where they keep their funds and seamlessly be able to buy cryptocurrency and the money moves from one entity to the next seamlessly behind the scenes. A very efficient process that I think will be very differentiated and will be the first bank to offer buy, sell, and hold crypto. We've mentioned stable coin on the call. I I can just tell you every day there's a new opportunity for us to leverage the SoFi USD stable coin that we'll plan to launch and we have some unique advantages that were already a tier one bank. What do I mean by that? Because we are tier one insured deposit institution, we can take the reserves of our stable coin and put them at the Fed and earn Fed funds. What does that mean? Zero credit risk, zero liquidity risk. There's not a stable coin provider in the United States that can make that claim. very differentiated, super excited about it. And there's a number of other applications there. You can imagine that Fed funds that we earn on those reserves, they could be given back to the consumer. They could be given to businesses to accept our payment at point of sale. Um, and it can provide a lot of different benefits to other ecosystem partners to cause them to want to partner with us as opposed to a non-tier one nationally licensed bank. So, we're going to invest as much as we can to that 30% incremental evidom margin and sustain high levels of growth um you know until it slows down and then we'll drive profitability.
>> The next question comes from Mosha Orin Buch from TV Securities. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
>> Great. Thanks. Um maybe a little bit about the competitive dynamic in the personal loan business. saw one of your uh close competitors got acquired by a large bank. Do you think first do you think that makes the business you know uh kind of a better competitive dynamic if that happens or maybe just talk about that a little bit and and if you could also just address you know you talked about becoming more capital light. How much of that do you think comes out of the personal loan business you know in terms of doing less for your balance sheet or more proportionally more in the loan platform side? In terms of competition for PL, I'd say it's generally been a competitive environment, but from entities that are not large national banks or the top 10 uh banks in our country, they just don't offer this product. I think there's a lot of reasons for why they don't offer this product. It's it's a gap in their portfolio that allows us um to really gain, I think, more members at efficient costs. I think the reason why they probably don't offer the product is because they gouge people so bad on credit cards and it's such a great ROE product um that they don't want to cannibalize the credit card. The way you make money in the credit card business is through revolving balances. Well, credit cards average in the United States over 20% interest on those revolving balances. If you actually had a prime uh member or super prime member and told them they're going to get charged 20%, they wouldn't sign up for that any day. But if you put that behind a fancy name of the card and all these benefits and high rewards, no one sees the high interest rate that they get and they chase those reward points um thinking they're getting some benefits from it. Then they end up with a balance that they can't pay off after one month and then they said they'll do it after two months and before you know it, it's been six months. They now have a $10,000 $15,000 balance. They're paying 20 to 30% interest on it. Would you refinance them with a personal loan at 12%. Probably not. So, I think this is a product that we're going to own from a leadership standpoint and we'll continue to bite away at these huge balances where people are
>> All right. So, that's what we got with SoFi. Uh, if people want to continue listening to the last 15 minutes, you can head over to Tanner stream. Uh, there's the results right there. We got a beat on the top and the bottom. Steve, after listening to the call, any thoughts on what Notto said? I I don't want to be disrespectful. I'm trying not to be disrespectful. Uh
>> oh.
>> Maybe maybe
>> whenever someone starts off by saying I don't want to be disrespectful, they're about to be disrespectful.
>> I mean, maybe it's because it's so early, but I kind of wanted to go to sleep.
>> I don't think you're alone there. I don't think you're alone.
>> Yeah. I mean, look, the call not get freaking enthusiastic. I He's trying to be enthusiastic, but it's like I don't know. He's not like Zuck.
>> I don't know. I don't know.
>> He's not like Jensen.
>> They really should do a They have enough of a retail audience where a video call would be super dope, but they don't.
>> A video call would be so much better.
>> Overall, I mean, on the quarter, stocks up about 3%. PayPal and UNH are moving a bit more. So, PayPal right here. We'll talk about PayPal. Now, PayPal was up 15. Now, it's up eight. I don't know what they're saying on the call, but it did lose a decent chunk of its gains. Then, UNH right here. Better EPS guidance. That's up 4% breaking the 380s. So, congrats to everyone in UNH. Uh stock was at 230 not too long ago. In terms of the SoFi quarter, we we both before the call started, we both agreed it was a phenomenal quarter. Do you think anything Notice said on the call changed your mind as well? So, there's nothing he could say. I mean, said all the right things. Stock's still up, thankfully. Hopefully, it doesn't sell off. I really don't want to see it break 31, to be honest. Um,
>> if it gets down to 30 and a half,
>> I mean,
>> wait, why don't you want to see it break 31?
>> To the downside.
>> Oh, to the downside. Okay. Okay. Gotcha. Gotcha. Because if we get to 30 and a half, I think there's a chance we end the day under 30.
>> Gotcha.
>> Like I wanted to keep the momentum.
>> Gotcha. Yeah, that's fair. That is fair. So again, these are the SoFi earnings right here and uh obviously they were good. Yes, we don't want to see this break and lose momentum. I mean, I put a poll in the chat on what people think. 67% of you guys said SoFi will pump. Um, it has been pumping over the past couple days, so hopefully just keeps this.
>> Can you bring Do me a favor. Bring up the uh thing Steve is just mad he didn't buy at 6 from 911. Like I love these comments. I love
>> Dude, you didn't buy early. You're late to this.
>> I didn't buy early. I'm freaking late like Tanner. I mean, go look at my Seeking Alf and tell me I didn't buy at six. Just saying. Yeah, it's uh
>> it's it look people have been long so by for a while. It's just first of all the stock is up over 100% this year. So no one can complain if it doesn't make
>> that that's like a mid that's like saying a mid didn't buy Palunteer freaking nine.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's just you've been a part of the story for I mean when you're when you're part of the story for a long time you're able to criticize it more because you you know you understand the story. I think I've earned the right to criticize SoFi just a little bit. I mean, I was long when it was at 450 and I publicly put out articles with a bullish rating at $450 and $5. I think I've earned the right to be a little critical of how they conduct a conference call.
>> Yeah. Uh we are getting a mic. So, we have a bunch of other headlines we'll cover in a second, but that was SoFi earnings. Microsoft getting a massive move right here. Up 4%.
>> Why? I don't know. But this is this is more than what Microsoft pumped in terms of the actual stock price in Q2 and they had a record.
>> They don't report until when?
>> Hold on. We got it. The next chapter of Microsoft OpenAI partnership. Oh boy.
>> Jesus.
>> I'm going to read this with you guys.
>> Here we go. What began as an investment in a research organization has grown into one of the most successful partnerships in our industry. As we enter the next phase of this partnership, we've signed a new definitive agreement that builds on our foundation, strengthens our partnership, and sets the stage for long-term success. First, Microsoft supports the OpenAI board moving forward with a formation of a PBC, public benefit corporation, and recapitalization. Okay, so moving away from
>> from a nonprofit. Following the recapitalization, Microsoft holds an investment in OpenAI group PBC valued at approximately 135 billion. How much did they put into OpenAI originally?
>> I think it was just Azure credits, bro. I don't even think it was like
>> Oh my god.
>> So that's 27% 135 divided by 500. Uh because 500 is the current valuation. On a as converted diluted basis inclusive of all owners excluding the impact of OpenAI's recent funding rounds, Microsoft held a 32% stake. So they gave up a little bit of that stake probably for some other reason
>> but still 135 billion not bad. The agreement preserves key elements that have fueled this successful partnership meaning opening I remains Microsoft's frontier model partner and Microsoft continues to have exclusive IP rights and Azure API exclusivity until AGI. What does that even mean? We will keep giving them Azure or have exclusive IP rights until they figure out how to solve AI. Look at this What has evolved? Once AGI is declared by OpenAI, that declaration will now be verified by an independent expert panel.
>> You know what Microsoft just did? They just came out and said, "All you idiots that think AI is not real need to shut up." That's what Microsoft just did. that and I think they gave themselves a framework to be able to figure out when they divest from
>> uh Microsoft's IP rights for both models and products are extended through 2032. Microsoft's IP rights to research defined as the confidential methods used in developments of models and systems will remain under either expert panel verifies AGI or through 2030 whichever is first. That is incredibly interesting. Microsoft's IP rights now exclude OpenAI's consumer hardware. Wow, OpenAI is really going after the consumer uh iPhone competitor, I guess. So, Microsoft doesn't have access to that.
>> What?
>> Oh, I mean, I'm skipping ahead. Open AAI has contracted to purchase an incremental 250 billion of Azure services. And people think I'm crazy with the capex freaking spend. This comes after contracting 26 gigawatts of chips from Broadcom, Nvidia, and AMD. The capex explosion is in full swing. Period.
>> Well, so no, I agree with you, but also I think opening eye had to say we're going to buy this.
>> Well, obviously
>> I mean Microsoft would have been pretty pissed off,
>> but now guess what? This comes out before earnings, right? Think about this. They just declared the next shot after Zuckerberg dropped 27 billion dollar shot on the Louisiana data center.
>> Agreed.
>> What the hell is Jasse going to say on this earnings call now? Jassee is probably like, "What the hell do I even say? What does Alphabet say? You can't not say anything." No, this is so bullish Microsoft because their guidance is about to go through the roof as Steve says. And I mean this is the most important sentence to be honest. 250 billion from open. Again, any company that says they work with OpenAI and they get that commitment even if it's not real money right now. Street loves it. Street loves it.
>> I mean, this is I hate to say it because I don't have a position and I haven't done enough due diligence, but this is freaking bullish everything. This is bullish. the cloud. I mean, cloud's not the right word, but Nebius, Coreweave, this is bullish them at some point because Microsoft's not going to have enough freaking demand. And guess or enough um cloud to support the demand and guess who this bullish for? AMD and Nvidia and Broadcom. This is bullish for the networkers, Cisco and AET. I mean, this just extended, I think, because now the other companies have to come over the top or at least match this with something.
>> Yeah, Nebius right here moving right now based on I think there might be a Nebus headline. I don't see it yet, but Nebius moving as well potentially based on this Open AI deal. Wow, that's big. Microsoft owns 135 billion of OpenAI, which will probably one day be, you know, 500 billion as OpenAI scales their valuation. and open eye will be buying 250 billion of Azure.
>> So you know what the real question now is? Forget 2025. 2025 is over. Here's the real question. If we don't get a recession in 26, are we going past 8,000 next year?
>> That is a good question. I don't
>> That's the real question at this point. I mean, I don't know, but it would be kind of crazy.
>> This is like
>> the problem is we don't see OpenAI's numbers, but this is crazy.
>> Google and Amazon are down on this because OpenAI
>> of course they're down.
>> Yeah, because OpenAI is spending some money. Chris, good morning.
>> Wait, can you go back to the Microsoft thing? Did Did it just say that Microsoft will no longer have the first right of refusal?
>> Uh M. Yes.
>> What does that mean?
>> Microsoft.
>> Okay. So, um so OpenAI is going to be buying credits from Azure, but right now the way that it I guess the deal was structured was like, hey, you have to buy from us like exclusively. Um, unless you know like if someone gives you a better deal, Microsoft can either match it or beat it or say, you know what, we we can't do that. So, you can go to somebody else. Now, OpenAI can go to other other platforms, which is interesting. I think this is what Sam Alman want. wanted a lot. He he he did not want he did not want to be in a monogous relationship with Microsoft
>> and he basically gave them
>> 27% of the company to get the Remember Microsoft was supposed to own 51%.
>> That's true. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. No, it's an interesting uh interesting development around it. No, I think I think AI for is going to be a multi- multi-year um buildout. The only thing that I would say just I would be cautious of is if euphoria gets way too high way too quickly, there's usually a digestion period where things have to catch up. But I don't see that being the case right now. I think right now just long and strong AI, you know, it's not it's not going anywhere. Uh UNH, that's why I pretty much came on. Uh UNH,
>> well, first of all, Chris, congrats, man. I mean, Right.
>> Once in a while you uh you know you you get something right. Um no it took a lot of conviction to be in UNH when when it was dropping into the 200s. Man, let me tell you that was not like even I remember the brutal the chat was just brutal, bro. Your chat has a way of either giving a lot of love or just piling on that hate. So when I was talking about UNH, I was like, "Oh god, this guy again with this freaking health insurance BS." So, but uh but but that's beside the point. The point is the margins on the business are starting to recover and it seems like the company itself is doing what it's supposed to do to try to get back to where they were in terms of profitability. There were a couple of key points that um that I'm not sure the market either glossed over or or didn't want to focus in on, but they are going to be losing about, you know, according to their guidance, about a million Medicare Advantage customers. Now, from a company standpoint, like if someone gets a headline like that, it's like, oh my god, what do you mean they're going to be losing like a million people? Like, isn't that bad for revenue growth? And the truth is it could, but at the same time, if they are some of the sickest people um in those care networks, they could be dragging down the the margin considerably. So, some people they would be better served being in traditional Medicare rather than being in Medicare Advantage. And I think uh I think UNH last time they really focused on growing their Medicare Advantage customer base. Um, but they they ended up doing it with a lot of margin contraction. So, it didn't work out very well for them. So, you know, they're doing the exact same thing that CVS did. They're narrowing their provider networks. You know, they're they're being a little bit more focused on how they target their Medicare Advantage population. They're controlling their costs. And, you know, UNH UNH is doing all the right things um and getting back in the right direction. and shareholder value is going to come from that margin recovery. Um yeah, so from from the call itself, you can kind of tell that the business is starting to get realigned back to where their um long-term historical growth averages were are going to be by 2027. So they they did confirm that 2026 was going to be a good year because there it's definitely going to be a better year than 2025, but it's not going to be like, hey, we're fully recovered back to our previous uh business operating metrics. Now, of course, you guys know the market is forward-looking. So everyone right now is like, oh, wait a second, like if they're get if their margins get back to where they were in 2027, that means that the valuation right now is actually very low, right? So that's why the market is rewarding them. And I I expect to see a lot of um a lot of uh uh what are they called? Um analyst upgrades this week. It's going to be all the And this is where I hope in the chat you guys, dude, flame these analysts, bro. Whenever these come up with these price targets, I used to I used to live by those price targets. I was like, "Oh, look. This analyst from JP Morgan thinks this stock is going to X, Y, and Z, and I should believe them." And I realized, no, screw that. They are so many of them have become nothing but price target chasers. Have you guys noticed that?
>> I mean, dude, yeah, there there's very few analysts I trust on the street. The rest of them, they get paid to put out a price target pretty much.
>> It's sickening to me. It's sickening.
>> Do my own due diligence and come up on my own targets.
>> Dude, it's so sickening to see this. Like, when this thing was going down, people were like, "Oh, this is going 190." And I'm looking at them and like I'm like what in what world does a $190 price target make any sense with this?
>> Now the same analyst like no no it's worth 300 now. And then like two weeks later no no it's it's worth like 400 now.
>> How can you have such a wide range in your price targets based on what you know? So I think a lot of times when things are going down everyone's like downgrade downgrade downgrade. When things are going upgrade upgrade upgrade and that's that's just stupid. So, I would say to anyone from an investing standpoint, learn how to do some some, you know, some of your own work and and don't rely on these idiots in their price targets, dude.
>> Chris, let me ask you this before you leave. Uh, and and Steve, your take on this as well. Uh, Amazon's cutting 14,000 people. UPS today, I don't know if you guys saw, they're cutting 48,000, 18,000 corporate, 30,000 operational. Uh, and the S&P is at alltime highs. So Chris, how are you thinking of these layoffs and at the same time thinking of the fact that the China tensions might have eased enough for the S&P to keep going higher even with those layoffs?
>> I mean, from an efficiency standpoint and from a profitability standpoint, if they can get the job done with less people, that that's more shareholder value, right? So in the short term, it's a good thing. So right now Amazon is saying look we can leverage probably some AI to to reduce down redundancy at the white collar level and maybe we don't need as many people that are just basically collecting a paycheck. You know we can actually get more things done. Like look, I I mean, I don't know about you guys, but I've worked in a corporate setting. And maybe maybe um Stephen, you could add chime into this, but I would say out of 10 people, there's about two that are high performers, five that are like, you know, good workers. They show up on time, they do what they're supposed to do, and they leave on time, but they're not like high performers. They don't like go above and beyond. And then the rest are just literally coasting. They've pretty much said, "My career is over. I'm just going to, you know, just show up. Say, they don't even show up on time a lot of times and they're just warm bodies. And the thing is, a lot of companies, they don't want to get rid of the warm bodies because they don't want to lose that that that uh that that service line, right? So, the way that like employment works is like, let's say you have 10 people and um and you let's say let one of those people go. A lot of times you have to go back to the CFO and say, "Hey, listen, this guy left. I need to hire someone new." Um so a lot of times what happens is managers they'll just keep slackers there because even though they don't really contribute a lot when let's say one of the high performance performers goes on vacation or whatever these people provide a warm body right but but re realistically all the layoffs I would imagine is is it is it is it AI related or do you think it's it's it's it's not healthy for the economy is what
>> no no so So let me just finish up with the thought. So a lot of the a lot of businesses they're starting to look at their bottom lines and saying look where can we meaningfully become more efficient. So now the CFOs are actually going and looking at like hey wait a second you have a team of 10. Who's who can we get rid of? Let's become more efficient. Okay where can we incorporate more AI into our processes to to eliminate positions? And so now a lot of employees are under more scrutiny and with AI tools it becomes easier just to say you know what these two high performers and these other other five guys we can just support them and and not have these other three people you know
>> Steve your thoughts on these I mean the the the other point of this question is are we seeing some weakness in the economy or is it more Chris's point that companies just need to be more operationally efficient with these
>> look I've lived through the sad pass in cloud computing. So is Chris. I've seen departments downsize through efficiency with software. And I think that we are in a situation where it's uncharted territory and nobody actually knows how profound AI is going to be. And my speculation is that we are going to have tremendous efficiency gains and I am very worried about what happens over the next 5 to 10 years. I know some people last night thought I was being a little bit too paranoid and thinks it's more 20 30 years out. The rate at which technology is expanding is like nothing we've ever seen before. Moore's law is shattered. You look at where we were 20 years ago. There was no smartphones. There was no cloud computing. It is a much different world than where it was. And now when you add the rate of expansion with AI and how quickly they can develop and where the technology is today, I got to tell you, I'm worried about what happens to unemployment over the next 5 to 10 years. It I've been saying this for the past year or so, and the numbers show it.
>> I'm I'm concerned with youth unemployment as me and uh Steve were talking yesterday. Absolutely. Because that's the first thing that gets impacted.
>> I I spoke to a few people like, you know, trying to figure out like, okay, like why is youth unemployment taking a hit right now? And so I actually got two different responses. One was, hey, you know what? The business just doesn't need a lot of people right now. We can actually get by with the the people that we have. And you know, we we just don't want to take on the additional burden of training new people when we don't know if they're going to have a full-time job. And the other one that actually I'm I was a little bit shocked, but at the same time they're very like candid about it was these newer these newer grads, they just don't want to work. Like they don't want to put in the time. They don't want to put in the effort. They don't want to do anything. They're just glued to their phones all day and basically just slacking. And so they find that the quality of worker among this new generation of people are just not good. They've been they've been coddled by the remote work from home with all the crazy benefits that they have they they got during COVID when you know when um what is that thing called when um times were good. So a lot of times people are just coming into like I was talking to one of my friends who works in HR. He's like I have people that come into the interview and the first thing out of their mouth is what does my compensation look like and what is like how many days do I have off? like you don't start the interview with asking about comp plans like I don't know I don't know whether this like this new generation thing but you know you you walk in there and you know when they're asking like there's like this interview part that like the first 15 minutes they go over everything and then they ask you at the end like do you have any questions for us you don't start asking about hey when's the next when's the first time when's when can I take vacation like the minute you do that like you just like as a at a as an interviewer you're just like So a lot of people are very entitled uh um the younger generation that's coming in they have been very coddled by a lot of the policies during co when hiring was a lot more um lax and so um yeah a lot of them are coming out of school unprepared also for this the for the work environment that's just not there. So I think a lot of youth are going to have to retool themselves into what's actually going to fit into the economy. So, I don't know. You have you guys heard about that or or am I just the only one that's hearing that?
>> Well, there's another
>> there's another side to it also, Chris. I mean, think about what the traditional first jobs for te teenagers are. Those are going to be gone in 5 to 10 years. I mean, you're not going to have people stocking shelves at Target or Walmart or your local grocery store. Those things are going to be done by humanoid robotics. I just I'm very worried about where we go from here because everybody starts somewhere. Everybody starts with a part-time job in high school or a part-time job in college if you play three sports or whatever. And it's just where are people going to get the life skills to be able to hold conversations with people and sit through meetings? I just I get very worried.
>> Someone said in the chat like I've never interviewed people. I've I've I was a I was a manager for quite some time. I've interviewed plenty of people and I'll tell you during during 2008 2009 all of those times when things were desperate workers used to come in. People used to come in and they were very cordial. It was just the time it it was a dog eat dog world. So people were a lot more willing to put like put effort into the job. right now over the last four years we've just had it so easy right finding a job that now that sense of entitlement is carried into the hiring practices but at the same time a lot of these people they're going to sit at home for the next 6 to9 months and then guess what's going to happen their attitude is going to change it's going to be like hey what are my benefits and how many days do I have off to hey like what are the opportunities that I can have for career expansion and growth that's what you're supposed to say when an interview comes interview asks you like do you have any questions for us like like what are what are the growth prospects at this organization you know how can I learn and and get training so that I can um expand my knowledge to fit in better and also grow my career because I don't want to be here for 6 months while I look for another job on LinkedIn that's like the biggest worry about most employers which is they get trained by us and then another company picks them up six months a year later and now I have to waste my time and train another person for another six months. So these are these are like little things that you'll learn. But yeah, sorry to take
>> I was say last question for you Chris. We got five minutes till the market opens. So just like a minute on this, but S&P alltime highs, I mean, are you bullish? Do you think it's a little too much or do you think we had a nice draw down? Earnings are coming up and it's headed in a in a decent direction.
>> Earnings are earnings are fine. Like they're everyone's doing well. We might see some volatility here and there, but there's so many catalysts on the horizon. I would not want to be short. um this market right now. You've got the resolution with the Trump uh China China tariff situation. You've got like uh what is that thing called? The government shutdown is eventually going to resolve itself, right?
>> Tomorrow.
>> Yeah, you got rate cuts tomorrow. You're going to get a rate cut probably in December and then maybe even a couple of rate cuts in the first and second quarter of 2026. I mean, do you really want to be short when the Fed is cutting rates? Probably not, you know. But the one thing I will say is positioning is going to be very important. A lot of small and midcap companies that have been overlooked over the last couple of years because of higher interest rates, they might start catching bids next year, right? So, um, so me and Steve, we went over some of the companies like yesterday, like I would say that look for some opportunities in small and midcap as well, you know, not not don't go into like speculative pharma, but don't also ignore these really good businesses that have a lot of debt on the balance sheet that they'll be able to refinance at lower rates and then boost their bottom lines because that's where earnings are going to be. And a lot of these companies are trading at, you know, valuations that are decade lows. Um, so you're definitely going to see multiple expansion, but it might not be in the in the the MAG 7 exclusively anymore where you actually see opportunities outside the MAG 7.
>> Yeah. All right. I love it, Chris. Thank you. Chris's Twitter I'm putting right here in the chat and we'll have you on later this week because we're definitely going to need your analysis on big tech earnings as we get through them. Later, Chris.
>> Later, Chris.
>> Later, Chris.
>> All right. Um, Steve, are we uh are we are you are is this the first time you're going to stay on the uh the market open with me?
>> I don't know how I'm going to stay on for a little bit. I'll probably go at 10 because I have a meeting at
>> Even Even if you have to leave at like 9:40. That's That's
>> Yeah, I have a meeting at 10. And um I'm going to try to write a SoFi article and I'll probably go live a little later. I pro I may join you for a little bit on the market close to go through the day with you.
>> Cool.
>> If you want.
>> Cool.
>> All right. So, we got four minutes until the market opens. Some headlines before we get into it. First of all, Trump is going to meet Nvidia CEO Jensen Hang today or sorry, tomorrow. This was confirmed. This will be right before the China meeting, which I think is super bullish because hopefully Jensen says, "Hey, can we please sell some chips?" And that's why I think Nvidia is cracking 193 in the pre-markets because you got uh this Trump Jensen meeting. So that's going to be important. Also, Jensen is going to be at GTC today. I will be live at 12 p.m. Eastern. That'll be a very important conference. And so we're going to see what updates Nvidia has. That could also be a reason why Nvidia is pumping. For those that are just joining, Microsoft announced a revised agreement with OpenAI. Stocks up three and a half%. Uh Microsoft will now own 27% of OpenAI and OpenAI will be paying 250 billion for Azure. We don't have a timeline on how long it'll take for them to pay them that money, but their contract over 250 billion. That's going to be great for Microsoft's guidance going into Q4. And so that's also very important. Uh but Microsoft right here is pumping up three and a half% right now. Amcor, I will probably buy the dip on this if it goes below 20 uh 30. Um again, this was a really good quarter. If you I haven't listened to the call yet, but if you look at the actual guidance, you look at what they're doing in the Poria factory and then you look at the record revenues, everything was good. The stock's back to where it was last Friday. It got up to 33 and so now it's back at 30. The CEO is leaving and that usually tends to get a stock to sell off when management leaves. But from the actual quarter itself, I thought it was phenomenal. If we do go below 30 because my average is around 3050, then I will buy the dip. I don't know why Grab is up in the pre-markets. I don't see any crazy partnership. We do have earnings coming up. You might be getting a little bit of a pump right there, but not sure why Grab is moving. But we are green. S&P 687. I mean, we are very close to 7,000. And you know, credit to Steve who was calling for 7,000 at 4,800. It looks like there's a shot that we can get there going into the end of the year. Um Richie, our boy from RBC has reiterated an underperform on Palenteer and he has a price target of 45.
>> I mean, I'm not even that crazy.
>> I love I love how he comes out with this. He said, "We maintain our underperform rating and 45 price target. Uh, we cannot rationalize why Palanteer is the most expensive name in software absent a substantial beat and raise quarter elevating the next 12 months growth trajectory valuation seems unsustainable." Look, the like he can make that argument, but the fact that he didn't put the price target at like 90, he's at 45 for like a year now. So,
>> I will tell you I feel like they watched the Everything Money video that just came out and then made that is what I feel like. So, they might have. They might have.
>> All right, folks. Here we go. 20 seconds left. First market open with Mr. Steve
>> and SoFi is teetering on 31 right now.
>> Oh, yeah. All eyes on SoFi. SoFi beat, triple beat, top and bottom line.
>> We're going to see as the markets open what happens to SoFi. Thank you everybody for being here. Tuesday, October 28th. The stock market is now open.
>> Dude, you're ringing that bell for a long time.
>> What' you say?
>> What' you say?
>> I said you're ringing that bell for a long time. Yeah, I needed to wake you up because your coffee wasn't enough. All right, wake your ass up. Here we go. SoFi 3118. That's up 3.9% on the day. I think it can hopefully hold 31 towards the end of the day. Most of you guys think it'll get a pump even.
>> Can you get an order book up by any chance
>> on my phone? I can get it up. Yeah.
>> Uh no, don't don't worry about
>> I don't feel like logging into my software. I just have Weeble up.
>> Yeah, we'll take a look at it in a second. Robin right here. That's up 1%. 146.88 crossing through 147. Palanteer 189. It was at 192. S&P up another2% on the day. 68670 on the S&P 500. AMD goes down. Uh AMD goes down. So that's red. The Qualcomm from yesterday also was a little bit of a headwind.
>> So Aid, here's the real question. If SoFi doesn't sell off, and let's just say SoFi doesn't go below 30, but it doesn't pump past 31, it stays in this range, is it time to start selling weekly calls?
>> Yeah, I think that's fair. I mean, if it stays between 27 and 32, yes, I think it's candidate for weekly calls.
>> Like, it's trying to hold, but to me, $30.50 50 cents is like the the line that I don't want to cross and it's trying so hard to stay above it right now.
>> Yeah, I agree. I agree. Ethereum right there, that's up 1%. Bitcoin, that's up 1%. Apple, that's up just a little bit. Apple did get to alltime highs. I think it's basically at all time highs right here at 269. Uh Apploven, that's flat. Circle down. Pinterest is down. N is down. Microsoft 3.3%. Again, that's a big move for a company of Microsoft.
>> Go back to SoFi. Go back to SoFi. It's going to crash 30. So down to 3020.
>> Wow. Okay. So, at the same time, Nvidia is trying to crack all-time highs. Uh Microsoft, by the way, just hit four trillion. Is this the first time or did it hit it before?
>> It's hit it before, I think.
>> Hit it before. Okay. So, Microsoft right here, four trillion. Apple is literally, I mean, a couple pennies away in the share price from moving to four trillion. Then we would have three four trillion dollar companies. Nvidia is $300 billion away from moving to 5 trillion aka about $10. 1946. SoFi holding 30.2.
>> It's I mean there's a battle right now around $30.15.
>> Yes, there is a battle right there. Rockab that's down half a percent. Eli Liy is down half a percent. Archer is down 1%. GameStop's down half a percent. The rare earth stocks from yesterday continuing to get hit. Uh, Japan, by the way, signed a rare earth deal with the United States. And Japan said they're going to buy eight billion dollars worth of soybeans. So, I think you have more demand internationally for rare earths, which is likely why the domestic producers are getting a little bit of pain. The Bitcoin miners are all green. IN's up 1%. Cipher's up 1%. Terowolf, I don't know if they had earnings, guys, but they announced something that increased their revenue projections, and that's why that stock's up 14%. I'll get the exact numbers, but uh yeah, it looks like whatever they announced, whether it was earnings or preliminary results, really bullish. Google took a stake in Terara Wolf as well, and that's why that stock is green. DJT, this is the parent company for Trump Media. They announced they will be getting into prediction markets. They announced they will be getting into prediction markets. And so, you do have DJT getting a bit of a pump right there. Up 1.745%. Nvidia is that all-time highs? Oh, wow. No. 19562. 19562 to break all-time highs for Nvidia. Uh, Wolf, they are developing and operating a data center in Texas. Terble owns 50% of the of the venture. Yeah, and they also had some revenue guidance projections that they gave, which was bullish. Amcor, I'm not sure why this one's getting hit 8%. Again, it's going back to the same price it was on Friday. So, you're just giving back a bit of what it had from last week. But again, the CEO leaving is probably the reason why you have a little bit of a decline. CCJ Camo, this one's up 17%. This is uranium 44 billion. I think we had some nuclear headlines yesterday, which is why that's helping CCJ. Um, oh, here it is. Today they announced that it along with Brookfield Asset Management they've entered into a binding term sheet with the US Department of Commerce to establish a strategic partnership which is expected to accelerate the global deployment of Westinghouse Electric Company's nuclear reactor technologies and reinvigorate supply chains and the nuclear power industrial base in the US and abroad. This should be bullish for Oakllo and a lot of those other companies. Oaklo red so not really getting any of the love and nanuclear basically flat. CCJ is the one that's benefiting. Um, so there you go. BMR, where is BMR right there? 5313. That is flat. Ethereum as well, 4138. That is slightly above 4,000, but still relatively flat. Palenteer goes flat. Tesla goes flat. Hood potentially is about to go flat. Nvidia is really the only one that's making a big move. Again, we have GTC, so you have a lot of people trading that. SoFi holding 30.40, which is nice to see that SoFi is at least holding the 30s. Grab right there went from 620 to 617. Again, we're going to have to see what earnings put up for Grab. Google right here 269, just below 270. Amazon, again, 14,000 people in corporate. They're planning to lay off. The thing I think people missed about Amazon yesterday is they're not planning to lay off any factory workers. In fact, they're planning to hire 250,000 for the holiday season. So, this is a a corporate bureaucratic management change particularly or likely led because of AI. Same thing that UPS said today. Although UPS is firing 30,000 operational staff, so you do have more uh actual workers getting fired. But it seems like their operating margin guidance should be bullish for 2026 if they're getting rid of managers that are making $300,000 a year and you know might not be contributing as much as Amazon thinks to the business and they can be replaced by AI. But that stock's down a little bit probably based on that Microsoft news as well. And that is what we got. Uh Steve, you think we lose 30?
>> We did for about a millisecond.
>> Oh, you're right. 2987. We did. UNH went red, too. UNH. Damn, dude. Every Oh, where is PayPal? Is PayPal holding its pump? I mean, PayPal's 8% is not barely holding it, but it was up 15%. So, you do have PayPal losing a little bit of the green. I mean, Microsoft's losing it, too. It was up almost 6%. Now, it's up 2%. All right. So, it's as soon as the market opened, people decided to take some profits,
>> which you had to think was coming at some point. I didn't think it would come at 30 and a half. I thought it would have come if SoFi ran to 33 34.
>> Nvidia is the only one that's really trying to go for it. It's got about 50 cents to break all-time highs. I think SoFi ends the day above 30. I mean, it would be surprising if they actually took it back down to 28 29. Yeah, especially since they weren't there yesterday.
>> Yeah, especially because we have rate cuts coming on as well. Again, Amcor, I got to go through the earnings and see what uh what they said. The only other red flag I can say is uh gross margins weren't as good as expected, but management also talked about that and they said their margin expansion is very easy to come to. So, I got to go through the earnings and then we'll kind of analyze what's going on right there. But, I mean, relatively the same price that it was at last week, but that one is taking it. the quarter itself there it was record revenue so there's not an issue with demand seems like there's a broader issue with margins that's what's hurting them Microsoft right here that one is down or that one's up 2% on the day still app that goes flat Bitcoin 115 and then Ethereum at 4100 what's happening with Figma where is Figma right here Figma goes red on the I mean a lot of stocks that were green in the pre-market are getting hit and I'm not sure exactly Exactly. Why? Um, okay. So, let's look at a couple of their headlines that we got going on here. The layoff stuff is the interesting stuff of the day. Amazon and uh UPS again announcing these layoffs, which I think a lot of people are wondering why exactly they're announcing these layoffs. Is is the layoffs due to lack of demand or is the layoffs due to uh operational efficiencies? Steve, is there any concern from you that the labor market is weakening enough for them to make these choices
>> in regards to what a rate cut?
>> No, in regards to UPS and Amazon. Because if we start seeing like the tech companies say we're laying off more people, I mean, Amazon's the first one.
>> If Google had to do that, that that would be a bit weird.
>> Yeah. But think about it. Why would UPS be a surprise? their warehouse. They have a lot of stuff that could be done by robotics over the next couple of years.
>> That's fair. Yeah. So,
>> it's I think we're going to see more companies do that. I think you're going to see it from Pepsi. I think you're going to see it from Coca-Cola eventually. I think you're going to see a lot of automation over the next several years. And it's very worrisome. It's great for investors with margins for the actual job market. Unless we can figure out a way to create new jobs, I'm very worried.
>> Uh Lisa Sue on CNBC, let's go to her and see what she has to say
>> for this country. So, we announced uh two new supercomputers that use our latest generation AI technology. And the key is, you know, the focus from Secretary Wright was let's do this as fast as possible. We have so many researchers in the nation that want more computing and so yes, we're going to develop two supercomputers. One of them will be deployed um early next year and then the other one uh will be deployed with our next generation MI400 series. So fantastic uh partnership and I'm really excited to be able to contribute to this really important mission.
>> Uh I don't mean to belittle but I got to talk a little horse race. You know I think the MI400 is in some ways equal to Nvidia. I want to know whether this was a contest and you got this and Nvidia did not.
>> Well, as you know, Jim, I mean, this this is a place where um you know, the National Labs are, you know, truly a national treasure for the United States. Um Oakidge National Labs has been a great partner for AMD and you can imagine everybody would want their compute in a national lab. So, MI400 series um is fantastic. We've been working um across the board across all industries um all of the national labs, all the sovereign countries and I'm super excited to be able to deploy both our current generation um MI355 and our next generation MI4 430 um at the Oakidge National Labs through these two supercomputers.
>> Absolutely. What caught my eye in the AMD release is that this is not just for traditional supercomputing for tech. this energy, medicine, health, national security. This to me sounds like a a government initiative to stay ahead of everybody else in the world in all of these verticals, not just traditional data center compute. Can you tell us how uh if I were say Thermoffisher or if I were Eli Willie, I would be able to get into this and say, I want some of that compute power.
>> You're absolutely right, Jim. This is actually a non-traditional uh partnership between uh the government and industry. What we thought to do was number one, we want to get as much compute as possible as quickly as possible to the national labs and they're going to do all kinds of research in medicine and energy and national security which is uh wonderful. But we also said you know there are industries that would uh private industries that would like access to some of this compute as well. So the Eli Liies of the world, the thermoffishers, all of these folks would also be able to participate as we bring up these clusters. And it is a very unique partnership. Um I would say um you know, Secretary Wright said it best. This is the first time that he's announcing something where you know the very first time I met Secretary Wright, he said, "Hey, bring me ideas, Lisa. Bring me ideas that get
>> So five below 30 and a lot of other stocks going red." So you do have some selling pressure as we get into this market open
>> us more AI in the government faster and I have to say um he was very open. We love the partnership with Oakidge National Labs. Our engineers and scientists are are really really excited about contributing um at the national scale for our our US AI efforts. Uh the other big story, Lisa, that made news regarding you guys in recent days was IBM uh saying about four days ago that one of their key quantum algos run on chips from you that are pretty commonly available and it's raised a lot of questions about the the possibility of commercializing those powerful computers. Well, we are also very excited about the partnership with IBM and in in general when you think about quantum computing, you know, people were thinking that quantum is, you know, it's going to take years to develop and when you really think about it, you know, we're not in a place where we can wait years for these developments. We want these developments, you know, really making a difference. Now, uh, you know, IBM um and AMD announced this quantum computing partnership. our researchers have been working together and the key is we're going to take the best of classical compute or traditional compute which is what uh you know we've spent um all of this research and development on and the best of IBM's quantum computing and really putting them side by side in applications so thinking about you know how we solve the biggest material science problems um how we think about you know some of the biggest energy problems and this is an area where you know again when I think about the work that we're going to do with DOE I think it's going to continued. It's going to be across all of these fields including how do we get quantum uh you know used in these new workloads as as soon as possible. So this is kind of the world that we're in with compute today. It's all about speed and how do we get the most compute on the most important challenges as soon as possible.
>> All right. So Lisa Sue uh maintaining the quantum narrative and kind of continuing to say this is an important technology. SoFi. Ah,
>> I have a question about what we just heard.
>> Yeah.
>> How on earth are these small quantum companies going to compete with what she just said?
>> I I I don't know. But the fact that she said it is good for the quantum companies.
>> I think it's good for quantum. I don't know that it's good for the quantum companies. I just don't know how you compete against AMD and IBM like that.
>> Look, I agree. I have I have no idea how they will compete. But the fact that the narrative that quantum is a big thing and there's a lot of investors that want to get exposure to it and maybe they don't want IBM or AMD. They want play like an O andQ or a D-Wave or something. I mean look, if you have really important tech I mean I think there's going to be a Quantum CEO that's going to be interviewed by Jensen today on stage.
>> Is there what time is it? The GTC conference
>> 12 p.m.
>> 12 p.m. So that and and Olen just did a podcast with a quantum physicist yesterday. I mean there is enough excitement in the industry even if those companies you know maybe are not going to be the absolute winners and I think that's enough to kind of keep them going. Nvidia right there 19385 that's up 1.2% AMD 260. So Qualcomm yesterday tried to rain on the parade of Nvidia and AMD with some uh new chips. That stock now down 2.6%. Rosenblad did say it's a buy and they think they can take some market share away. About two billion worth of revenue in fiscal year 2026 on their new chips, but Street's not buying it right now. Stocks down 2.7% right here.
>> All right, Amit, thank you for having me. I am going to get going. I will see you later today. We'll see what happens.
>> SoFi is dumping 2940.
>> SoFi, baby.
>> We knew it was going to happen. We all tried faking it. We all tried saying, "Oh, maybe this time is different." It's not different.
>> No, you're right. You're right. At least today it wasn't different. At least today
>> wasn't different. All right, I'll see you later.
>> Later. SoFi, man. Freaking SoFi. There you go. I mean, it is what it is. It is what What else can we What else can we say, guys? It's SoFi. It's It's freaking SoFi. like there's not there's not much to say. I look it was a good quarter by the way. Tesla getting a massive move right here up 1.69%. So Tesla Tesla really making move. Not sure why Tesla's moving, but it is indeed moving. Um SoFi did announce with Galileo that they're working with Southwest. So you know we for everyone who cares about the tech platform growing, the tech platform did sign a really big partner in Southwest Airlines. That's not a small company and that's good. VIX is up 1.77%. That's why market's going a little red. Not sure why Tesla's getting the move right here. I don't see a headline. It seems a bit more technical or maybe just more excitement based on uh the shareholder meeting that's coming up on November 6th. But you do have Tessy making a move in a bit of a sea of red. SoFi is just getting clobbered down 2.4% now on the day. As Tess says, SoFi triple bead pump and dump like clockwork. This is like, dude, every time Terra Wolf gave preliminary earnings, so they didn't give official earnings, they gave preliminary earnings. And that's why Terara Wolf is mooning right here, 17%. And looks like the street likes what you got. Open, that's up about 1.4% on the day. Um, Terra Wolf said revenue will be 48 to 52 million. That's up 84% year-over-year. Adjusted Ibida, instead of 6 million last year, they're assuming 19 million. That's a 300% increase. full results are going to be in November. Management also expects to contract an additional 250 to 500 megawatts annually targeting long duration agreements with investment grade counterparties. I mean, you can't be more bullish than that. You've got revenue growth and you've got increased capacity for data centers, which is everything the street cares about on these Bitcoin mining companies that have turned into data center plays. Bitcoin right there 115.3 getting a little bit of a move as well. Bit mine 5379 as well. Nate says try 400% like Nebius. Nebas 12650. I mean great recovery from 94 to 126. Some of these stocks we have not seen recover over the past couple weeks with the draw down. Some of these stocks are getting very close to recovering like a hood and a nebas. So nice to see that S&P just went red for the day. S&P went red. Where is Beyond Meat, guys? There is a legit cult around Beyond Meat. I was saying this yesterday. I saw a screenshot yesterday of someone who has 797,000 shares and you know he I don't know if he's trying to become the roaring kitty of Beyond Meat but he is definitely uh you know putting his money where his mouth is. So I mean there are people that definitely believe the the the the 161% short float is not sustainable. And yeah it was $7 last week. It was it got to 850 uh in the pre-markets. It fell to like 160 yesterday. And now it's at two bucks. I don't know. I don't think the story is over with Beyond Meat. I don't think the story is full. I think there's a lot brewing underneath and people think it could be the next GameStop. ASST, that stock is down 10% on the day, 147. We know we saw this one surge 40% yesterday. Uh they did buy some more Bitcoin, so they exercise some warrants. I think they now have 5,700 Bitcoin. So, uh they are trading if if you look at them as a pure play treasury, which they're not. There's a lot of other elements to it. um you know they're like more of an asset management firm in general but but they are trading at 0.81 81 NAV. So they are trading at below NAV. If anyone wants to get exposure to a Bitcoin treasury, that is trading at below one nav. You do have that with ASST. The question is just, you know, can they develop a premium to NAV over the long term. Tesla right there at 457 and then Nvidia 193. UPS again. I am still trying to figure out why exactly they they're cutting 48,000. That's not a typo. 48,000 people. uh 30,000 operational, 18,000 corporate. I mean, I think it has to do with AI for sure, but you can't tell me there might not be a little bit of a demand issue in the economy to cut 48,000. Now, granted, Steve made a good point that um that if it's 30,000 operational jobs that are going to be replaced by robotics, aka not just like drivers and delivery people, but rather the actual robots in the factory that are taking away more jobs, maybe it's not a question of demand. Maybe it's a question of efficiency, which is something we're going to have to get used to with a lot of these companies as they continue to uh innovate with robotics. CleanSpark, by the way, that's up 1%. CleanSpark uh signed a partnership with another center or another facility to uh increase capacity for data centers, and that's why CleanSpark is getting a bit of a mood right here. Uh Submer is its first strategic partner for AI data center expansion in North America. So, they've officially picked a partner called Submer and that will be helping them expand in North America. That's why CleanSpark is up right now. Do people think it's a demand issue or do people think it's like a or do people think it's just an AI issue? SoFi, my goodness, bro. What did the street want? What did they want? It was a good quarter. I I don't think I saw a red flag in the quarter. Steve didn't see a red flag in the quarter. I'll be curious to see what Tanner thinks, but I don't think anyone saw some like glaring red flag that was like, "Yep, this is why you got to be worried about SoFi." I mean, there was good conversation about crypto stable coins, the card that's coming out uh on stable coin. Notto said, "I could not be more excited about the product roadmap and the multitude of use cases we have for our plan stable coin and our ability to differentiate a stable coin like no other company." He's talking about the bank license, giving them bigger opportunities with their stable coin. I don't know. I think this one might recover towards end of day. I mean like I'm just guessing here, but like I I don't think it deserves to be down at these levels and I would wonder kind of how the street would think of it as they get some time to digest the results. Pounder 189, Robin Nood 146, Tesla 456. Where is Rocket Lab? Rocker Lab right here 6531. That one goes red. ESTs 7980. Matt says, "What did the street want?" They wanted more. I guess they wanted more than this. Tess says it's just the traders, not the investors. Yeah, I mean I I I'd agree with that. Iran, by the way, slightly green on the day. I do think it's a lot more traders that are, you know, toying with SoFi versus people actually selling their positions. Here's the heat map for the day. Pretty red to be honest across healthcare, utilities, consumer defensive tech is green. The Microsoft Openi news was definitely bullish to get the tech sector moving. It wasn't the best for Google, although I mean, I don't I don't think it's be I mean Google just got anthropic to buy a million TPUs. So okay, OpenAI sends a partnership with Microsoft. Maybe they're going to buy less GCP. They're going to buy more Azure. I don't think that's necessarily bearish Google, but you do have Google right there 267. It did hit 270 yesterday as well. Did Apple hit 4 trillion. Are we officially there? No, we're not there yet. We are close. We are very close. Microsoft is still holding for trill. Apple is very close to getting there. 3.986 3.986 The Stonemason says, "I worked at UPS. It's not robotics. Mostly getting smoked by Amazon." You know, that's a good point. I didn't even realize that maybe it's competition that's causing UPS to fire people, not like demand or robotics. I mean, we've seen Amazon start to vertically integrate and have that not be the best news for FedEx and UPS. FedEx right there up about 1.7%. Yeah, that I mean maybe that's the bull case for Amazon to be honest. PayPal is still up 10%. PayPal is really the winner of the day out of all these stocks. UNH lost its pre-market pump flat on the day. So obviously lost it down 2% on the day. Uh SoFi didn't have too much of a pump anyway. And PayPal had a big pump and it's it's lost only 5% of it. It was up 15 now it's up 10. And you finally got this guy to move as per an announcement with opening eye in terms of Amcor. So here's what DA Davidson said. They uh reiterate their price target of 40 bucks. They said Amur posted a solid three uh three three third quarter and in line to slightly positive fourth quarter guidance for the street. However, the most exciting parts of the call were indications that several end markets are firming and longerterm demand for the new Arizona facility continues to rise. We remain bullish. Amcor surprises street with the announcement that the CEO intends to retire. Chief operating officer will assume the CEO role. The announcement was unexpected, but we expect a smooth CEO transition as Mr. Angel has been at Amcor for over 20 years. So I think the reason the stock is down quite frankly it really is not about the numbers. It's about the CEO leaving. We've seen this many times in the stock market CEO leaves and you know there's a leadership shakeup and to the street I'll go sell it off immediately. Uh I haven't listened to the call yet but the overall quarter seems you know pretty strong especially with that Arizona factory. Again there's not that many packaging companies in the United States that are doing domestic semiconductor manufacturing. AMP core is one of a handful and it was you know shown via the the results and the guidance but you do have the CEO leaving. S&P goes green 685 that goes up. It was at 687 recovering from a little bit of the red. AMD as well going a bit green 259. Let's go back to Lisa Sue and get a little bit more of her thoughts on what's going on. Oh, hold on one second. Let me reshare this.
>> Okay, cool.
>> We're seeing an acceleration of the use of AI because as models get better, as enterprises are thinking about, you know, how they can deploy these models, uh there's a lot more compute that's necessary and we're seeing that across the board with the capex spending as well as in our direct conversations with customers. And you know David, I think the most important thing for people to recognize is a big market is good for all of us. Uh that has been our mantra is to develop technology that can go across all of these verticals and I love seeing our technology in the national labs and also across all of these enterprises and the cloud. Do you have the ability to meet all this demand so to speak and are you you know in terms of GPU allocation whether it's cloud AI enterprise customers the government do you have to sort of tar them in terms of who gets what first?
>> Well this is all about developing you know not only great technology but also a very resilient and robust supply chain and we've been working on this for years David when we think about all of the research development and all the supply chain efforts. So, we're certainly ramping up our supply chain. You know, we're thrilled with the deals that we announced earlier this month with OpenAI and Oracle. We're also very excited about um the new deals that we just announced uh with the Department of Energy. And the key is, you know, more people want u AI compute as soon as possible. And I think what we have is an extremely strong roadmap and and we're excited to uh to see what we have going forward with all of our partners. You know, Lisa, I would love it I if you could just get your crystal ball out and just say uh what advice do you have? You're a great teacher people to the 21 to 24 year old that's thinking about going in a business where there is
>> All right. So, that's what we got from Lisa Sue. AMD right there at 260. Uh Terowolf again making a move. HUD mining by the way got a price target increase to 78 from 36 from benchmark. Uh the analyst said we view HUD's uh HUD stock as a HUD stock offering as a flexible call option on not only the most powerful technology and financial mega trends of the decade the growth of AIHPC but also on energyintensive use cases to emerge in the earnest. Really what you're seeing with these Bitcoin miners is a ton of rerating Irene, you know, being the the biggest beneficiary of it so far. And then Cipher, IN going red today, Cipher also not too far behind of where they lie in the broader AI data center stack. And with Terolf, uh, Cipher, Hutate Mining getting the upgrade and INS get some love. Now, are these attractive valuations on these stocks? I don't know. They are good growth. Like you can't deny the growth. Like Galaxy grew freaking you know 200% on EPS. That's amazing growth. But then Galaxy did a billion dollar offering yesterday and that's why the stock's down 8%. So there's dynamics of as Mike Novrat said when he was on the show, the CEO of Galaxy Digital a couple weeks ago. You have to understand the management team. You have to understand the valuation. You have to understand the uh licensing and and leasing deals that these companies have. Galaxy has a big deal with Cororeweave which is a reputable client. But all these things matter when it comes to buying the data center plays similar to Nebius or Cororeweave as well. Nebius right there 125 that goes right on the day. So all the data center plays losing some luster. SoFi 2980 that one getting a bit of a recovery a bit of a recovery. Chat says admit you spend you misspelled PayPal in your title. Well, pay PayPal is a little less uh painful today. Up 10.7%. I'm happy for Suchin, dude. Suchin freaking Suchin took a massive call yesterday on PayPal and his leap should be printing, which is nice. QXO, I know this is a new stock that Steve's getting interested in. Uh I have not done a ton of due diligence on them. That's up about 1.6%. I think Steve eventually will do. Well, no, Steve did an article on them today. So, if anyone wants to read the article, I'll link it. But, um, yeah, we'll probably do an episode on what he's thinking. Brad Jacobs, that's what's catching his attention. We we did a deep dive on GXO the other day, which is a spin-off, also associated with Brad Jacobs, so it's similar in that space. SoFi, is it trying to go green? Not yet. Still needs about 30 cents to get green. Grab right there at 613. Tesla 1.5. Tesla still moving. pound here holding on to 190 two days in a row. Crowd strikes at all-time highs. Wow. 542 on Crowd Strike. 542 on Crowdstrike. So says, "I like Wolf over Iran. Wolf is backed by Google. 25-year lease agreement represents 9.5 billion contracted revenue. Google backs stops 1.3 billion of the lease as well." Yeah, I've got to go deeper into the specifics of how Google has structured their deal with Wolf and Cipher because they've invested in both, but Terolf right here 20% on these preliminary results. You know, market cap of 6.7 billion. It looks like the street is happy about it. By the way, Bit Farms as well slightly up on the day. Bit farms was at 670 last week, 660 back down to 450, but up from $2, which again, you can't be too mad about if you were in it at two bucks. Netflix getting a little bit of a pump. A little bit of a pump. 11:14 on Netflix. Your boy Jared Kushner is on the board of QXO. Yeah, I found out today. Steve was like, "Look at the board of directors." I'm like, "Oh, I recognize that guy." Who knows? May maybe that's part of the thesis. We We'll talk to Steve about it. Try to get some more analysis. Reddit right here down 1%. PayPal still up 11. SMCI holding the 50s, which is nice after a drop to 47. Intel, are we getting a move on Intel? Intel is Wow, Intel almost 41 after those earnings. Intel almost 41. Quantum names, D-Wave, that's up 1%. Dwave was up 10% yesterday. NQ, that one goes red. And then Regetti, that one is flat. Now again, there's going to be the CEO of Inflection, if I'm not wrong, ticker symbol CCCX. Uh I think I believe that's the right ticker who's going to be with Jensen either today or tomorrow with GTC. So you are going to get uh more coverage with the quantum computing sector. You had Lisa Sue just talk about it on CNBC and you then had you then had who else? uh you had you had you had uh the Olan podcast do a podcast with a physicist who's won a Nobel Prize for quantum. So, you know, again, I've been saying this for the past week, but regardless of what you think about the valuation of some of these stocks, the momentum on the sector is real. And if any of these companies produce some really good earnings, which they have earnings coming up over the next couple months, I mean, regardless of valuation, if that momentum is strong, you could see these stocks get a bit, which is why again, I think short just does not make a lot of sense right here. Microsoft 545. Microsoft has talked a lot about quantum computing. Google made a breakthrough last week. All these things are still net positive for those stocks even if they're happening from bigger companies. Microsoft again the big news with OpenAI as is up 2.4% on the day is that they now own 27% of the company. 135 billion of equity they own by OpenAI. The the the weirdest thing about this though guys is look at this first bullet point. Once AGI is declared by OpenAI, the declaration will now be verified by an independent expert panel like like they're saying we're going to lose all of our IP rights in our research that OpenAI has exclusively granted us once they declare AGI and there's some independent panel that's going to make sure they've declared I'm like what is AGI? How do we know what's AGI? Like like I don't know. Give me your best definition in the chat. What does AI have to do to legit be AGI? But it looks like that is the terms and agreements that Microsoft has come to with OpenAI. AMD, are we moving AMD? Wow. Alltime highs on AMD. There you go. Microsoft owns 27% of Open AI. Open eye owns 10% of AMD. And Microsoft buys GPUs from AMD. Exactly. Microsoft owns 30% of OpenAI. OpenAI will eventually own 10% of AMD. And then Microsoft and Open are buying GPUs from AMD. AMD right there. 264. That's getting a move. Are you streaming Nvidia? Yes. 12 PM Eastern. I will be streaming Nvidia. I gave up my dentist appointment just to stream Nvidia's GTC. So, you know, unfortunately, I don't get to see the dentist, but I'll get to see Jensen. Grab 613. Google goes red. And then SoFi still down about 1% on the day. Uh would open eye tap alphabet for verification of progress towards AGI? I it's some third-party independent panel of experts. I just thought the wording of it is so weird. Like who the heck is going to be on that panel that can legitimately say AGI has been achieved? Like I would imagine that panel would be created by people Microsoft thinks are important, but We are living through one of the most incredible technological revolutions and the fact that the deal is set up in a way that has to determine when AGI is achieved for Microsoft to lose all of its exclusivity rights is quite incredible and again not to mention open buying 250 billion of Azure services. So that's really going to help Microsoft guidance and that's why the stock is moving. Tesla 461 remember alltime highs on Tesla is 488 folks. It's not that far away. And this is after they grew negative 30% on earnings. So, the street has absolutely not cared about earnings. By the way, uh Adam Jonas came out from Morgan Stanley and he said, "I'm calling it Tesla has achieved uh full self-driving perfection." He put out a long note yesterday to his client saying, "Look, we like Tesla's done it. They figured it out. And if we see the eventual impacts of that long term, then you know, that probably helps the stock as well. Chad says Sam Waltman is on the panel. Yeah, that's that's going to be very interesting to see what it is. Uh Blackstone Saudi AI firm Humane Inc. $3 billion data center deal. That is correct. That's a big headline with the Saudis. They also did a contract with Qualcomm yesterday. Uh they have a bunch of contracts with AMD and Nvidia. So you got the Saudis really starting to invest a bit more into what we got on AI. Oh, do we have consumer confidence today? We do have consumer confidence for October. I don't know how they're calculating it because the government shut down, but the number is 94.6 versus 94.2. 94.6 versus 94.2. Uh, looks like that's what the street likes. Let's get some coverage on that real quick. But that seems to be the number isn't sequentially higher after you take the revision into account. As for present situation, one 129.3 much better than expected. That follows 125.4 4 that gets upgraded to 127.5. The current read at 129, also the best since August when we were a little bit over 132. And finally, what what lies ahead? Expectations 71.5. Uh this is a little weaker. Uh last month was 73.4, but it does get upgraded to 74.4. All right, so the number is basically in line with expectations. Very little uh misses, if there are any misses. By the way, the 10year is still down below four, which is good. Uh, where is gold? I'm going to guess it's still down below 4,000. Gold is still down below. Gold is the lowest it's been in three months, folks. Look at that. 3942. Silver's up on the day. That's weird. Silver's green. Gold continues to plunge. It was at 4400 two weeks ago. And obviously it's had a massive run so no one can be that upset about it. But nonetheless you are seeing a little bit of weakness in gold. Maybe a rotation to digital gold. Bitcoin right here 115 officially green for the month which is nice. And you're getting a bit of momentum right here as well. Apple are we at 4 trillion yet? Apple gold posted terrible earnings. Apple's not I think Apple needs 270 to be 4 trillion or 269.97 I think is the exact number. So, you need another dollar for Apple to get to your four trill. Uh, robo taxi updates. I didn't see any over the past 24 hours. I mean, Elon hinted to some updates in in in uh in robo taxi expending to California on the earnings call, but no, I see no headlines that would give me a reason for Tesla to pump, but it is indeed moving. You could have a lot of stocks moving before GTC as well. I mean, Jensen might just say a bunch of stuff that is exciting for the overall state of AI, and you could get people wanting to play it from that perspective. AMD just below all-time highs at 262. Google just below 270. Then SoFi still stuck at 29. Still stuck at 2950. Micro Strategy, is that above 300? That is still not above 300 yet. Yeah, the robo taxi still has a safety person in the car. Well, that's another thing. Adam Jonah said yesterday, he he says that I think they're very close to getting rid of the safety person. And you know, if they do, that's going to be vital for Tesla to really start expanding. But as of now, it's not there yet. Whimo, by the way, said their fleet of robo taxis is now driving on average 286,000 autonomous miles per day, a 51% increase from February 2025. The difference between Whimo and Tesla is Tesla is the person in the car, but Whimo is also geofenced. Now Tesla is also geofenced but uh you know Tesla would argue that Whimo is not fully autonomous even though they don't have someone in the car. I've been in a Whimo before and you know it it it is a real autonomous vehicle. So you do have that differentiation from Whimo and Tesla. By the way, XAI launched Graipedia yesterday as their competitor to Wikipedia. So I played with it a little bit last night. Uh I mean it's good. I don't I don't know. Like the thing about Wikipedia is people search something on Google and then Wikipedia is the first link that pops up and that's why people use it. I I really don't think that many people literally go to Wikipedia.com and search something. It's usually a a residual way for them to find content based on a Google search. So I think Grock would really have to hack SEO to get a lot of people to leave Wiki and go to Grock. But it is one of their attempts to break through. I I will say, you know, objectively, and I'm a I'm a Elon guy. I pay for Grock plus I I don't think Grock is winning, at least on the consumer level for the LLM race, and that's because not a lot of people use X. Like, at the end of the day, they just don't. And so, if X is their distribution hack, you know, a lot of people use YouTube and Google products. So, Gemini has a lot of ways to integrate. Chat had first mover advantage, which is why they have 800 million weeklies. Grock has Elon with a megaphone which is important but you know first of all a lot of people don't like Elon and then second of all it's like is that megaphone large enough to get hundreds of millions of users and Grock hasn't disclosed their user count so we really don't know how many people are using it but Twitter only has 200 million dailies so you know not all of them even care about Grock so how many of them are actually signing up for that I think that is the broader question on if the consumer part of the LM is going to start really taking off right there 193 3 24 as well. Verdive is down. Oh yeah, I forgot. Whimo's owned by Google. I mean, that's another argument for why Google's been getting some love. Vertive down 3.3%. Vistra right here down 6%. Why are the data center? Okay, I bet you Nebius is down. Nebius basically flat. So, it is down from its high. C are all the data center plays. Coreweave is barely up. The Bitcoin miners are losing a lot of steam outside of Terra Wolf because they had good results. Why are Vistra and VST down on the day? That's a That's a pretty big That's 6%. That seems like a data center piece of news that's causing it. I don't know why these ones are down. I'll see if I can get an update. APLD is up though. Okay, so a little bit of divergence between some of the data center plays versus the other ones. Uh APLD making a move. So still down about 2%. I don't see the headline on APLD. Again, they had some headlines last week. Obviously, they have that core deal from June, but based on the earnings, that's what really got this thing to start moving. Terowolf was uh the most important update today in that space. Oh, Wayfair. So, we didn't talk about this last night. Wayfair was last, right? No, no. Wayfair was in the morning. Okay. So, for those that missed a little bit of the beginning of the show, dude, again, this trend of earnings continuing to beat is is like real. It's very real. So obviously we saw PayPal that was a massive beat, right? And it was really good to see PayPal continue to get that uh surge in in just momentum on the top and the bottom line. Then you had SoFi that had your double beat. Then you had UPS that also had a double beat. They beat by 33% on EPS. That's a massive beat. And then 3% on revenue. And again, a lot of these beats are happening on EPS, not just revenue, which shows that margin enhancement is um is coming. Then Wayfair, which has to deal a lot with the tariffs because they're selling furniture. They beat by 59% on EPS. I have no idea why. I have not gone through their numbers. Wayfair obviously is getting a big move today. It's up 21%. This is a low margin business that has to deal with tariffs. I don't know how the hell they beat by 59%, but they did. And so regardless of if you own Wayfair or not, it is very very healthy as a market participant to see these companies that shouldn't be putting up 60% EPS putting up those numbers. Tesla by the way 462 high of day and I think that is very exciting to kind of see some of that momentum. Applied digital achieves ready for service for phase one at Polaris 41 building for coreweave. Okay, so that's what's helping APLD. that headline is allowing them to get some momentum as well. Um, Wayfair has free delivery. Yeah, I mean, I was going to order a couple things from Wayfair over the weekend. I just didn't get a chance to do it yet, but there's a couple of chairs and things that I'm ordering and I I mean, honestly, I forgot they were a public company, but then I saw the earnings today. I'm like, holy crap, that is like not easy for them to put up these numbers. But they did. Um, Nanuclear, some of the other nuclear names, that one is up 5%. Okay, that one goes green. Next Era, this is another energy company that Google signed a contract with yesterday. That's down 1%. So, you got some of the nuclear names pumping maybe off one of the nuclear headlines we saw this morning. Oaklo as well up 3%. Those headlines continuing to give it some excitement. The other energy names kind of down. GEV is also down. Okay, so all the data center energy plays, I shouldn't say all of them, but some of the biggest ones are down. GEV, VST, and VRT. SMCI, Intel, Micron says, "Algo trading benchmark showed record-breaking results." Yeah, we saw that headline in the morning and uh Micron's flat. It definitely helped Intel. SMCI still holding 52. Intel right there just below 41. This is basically where it was at before earning. Celestica, which apparently is a Canadian company that is up 230% year to date, up another 10%. They crushed earnings again yesterday. I asked Tanner if he knows about this company. He said no, which was surprising because there's not that many Canadian companies, I think, that are up this much this year, but it is. And that one got some love. Intel right there, 40.88. Nvidia still holding 193 on the day. SMR, that's up 9.4%. talked about a nuclear headline in the morning that was for a company that didn't have to do with the Oaklows of the world or the SMRs, but it looks like that headline in and of itself is getting the broader market more excited. Fermy is probably up on that as well, right? Fermy is a data center play. Fermy, they just IPOed. Yeah, there you go. Up 14%. There's a divergence between some data center energy plays today and the other ones that are a lot bigger. Uh, and then there's also divergence between some of the Bitcoin miners today. Some that are getting a lot of love like Terolf and the others that are relatively flat. Um, Skyworks headline. There was an acquisition, right? Or there was a merger between Skyworks if I'm not wrong. Yes, there was. Oh, there you go. Boom. Skyworks and Corvo entered into an agreement to combine creating a $22 billion US-based leader in high performance RF analog and mix signal solutions. Okay, so this is also probably helping a bunch of the other data center names that are derivatives of these companies or work with these companies. But that okay, so you're seeing some pretty big updates, right? You got Terolf preliminary earnings. You got a Skyworks acquisition. You got some nuclear news, but it's fragmented across a variety of the different sectors. How is OpenAI spending all this non-existent money? That's a good question. You know, sometimes I think the best advice is to not ask any questions and just to go along with it. And quite frankly, sounds so toppy right now. It's like, how do they have the money? Don't worry about it. You don't have to ask that question. Just look at AMD stock. Look at Oracle stock. Look at Nvidia stock. Look at Broadcom stock. That's all you have to worry about. You don't have to worry about where the money's coming from. It's just money at the end. They could print it. You know, it's literally just money. Dude, that's when we've achieved AGI. When it can print money, I don't know how, but when it can print money as easily as the Fed does, that, ladies and gentlemen, is AGI. Oh yeah, CCJ, that was the company that had a big nuclear announcement today. That's why that stock, Wow. 20% on the day. That one is helping all the other nuclear names. $45 billion company. I'll pull up the exact headline, but that's what helped them. What on earth is AGI? That's another good question. Oh, CCJ partnered with Brookfield. Yes. So, the partnership with Brookfield today, that's we covered that in the morning. That is what's pumping a lot of the nuclear names right now. Fear and greed. Where are we? We were at 37 yesterday. Oh, folks, we're at 42. We are closer to neutral. You know what I would hate? I would hate if we get to greed before the end of the year, meaning we run up too quick because then, and it's not like it's a bad thing, it's just then you're probably going to get some people just in general, right? like markets are probably going to sell off a little bit in December because you know when you get to greed extreme greed like there I mean we saw this literally last time we saw this on December 18th 2024 we didn't have the best end of year in 2024 we really did the last two weeks we were a bit more greedy and people took profits and so it just wasn't the best end of year. Um, it really depends, I guess, where the S&P go. I mean, I wonder if we hit 7,000, do we get to greed or if that is neutral, but big tech earnings are going to determine a lot of it. Bitcoin 116. Okay, Bitcoin finally making a bit of a move. We haven't seen 116 since, well, technically we saw it yesterday, but realistically, we haven't seen it since October 8th. So, 20 days. Took about 20 days to get back to these levels. And we got five days left to close above 115 to have a green October. Wow. Tessy 464. Okay. I I don't see the headline for Tesla, but Street loves it. Street loves it. Gold still down another 1.3% on the day. The 30,000 Amazon layup. So, Amazon clarified today it's going to be for they said at least 14,000 with an upper end of potentially 30,000. So, they did clarify it's not literally 30, but it could be 30. People were too bearish on this yesterday. I I think this is this is corporate. I mean, Amazon literally said it's corporate uh workers and this is, you know, middle management. So, Amazon saying, "Hey, do we need a manager to manage a manager to manage another manager that manages the actual worker or can we use AI to automate some of this stuff?" Which I mean, look, it just feels like it's inevitable that that's probably going to happen in more places. But people are saying, "Oh, Amazon has less demand because of this." I don't think it's a demand thing. I think it's an AI thing. And as a result, that might not be the worst for Amazon in and of itself. Uh UPS 95. That one's still green. Sounds like the UK NHS. Okay. I'm not saying that. You're saying that I love the Brits. I love the NHS. You know, I love that uh they they gave Palunteer cool $500 million to help them modernize a bit. But yeah, any bureaucratic organization, right, might be think especially, look, Amazon stock is flat. Amazon has vastly underperformed the NASDAQ over the past five years. You might have Jasse saying, "Hey, we we need to we need to get some together to get this stock to move." And it might be via layoffs before we get into earnings. That might be what's happening. M What are you doing with your SoFi position? Nothing. I mean, I think now I'm just going to write calls against it. If soofi stays stuck in this range, then I mean what else can you do, right? Like I expected I look I wanted a 35 on a big catalyst on a good earnings. It was a great earnings. You can't be upset that it's not a 35. It's not SoFi's fault. It's it's the nature of the market. So the only thing you can do now is write calls against it and collect some premium. Um I mean look tomorrow we get rate cuts. So maybe that is the catalyst for everything to get a little bit of a move. Maybe Tesla new high of day 46430. But I don't think there's anything else we can do with with sofa. Is it worth buying some sofa? I mean, I would want a better dip to buy more. So, I mean, it's it's down 2%, right? Like, I would want SoFi at least at 27 again before I get excited to buy. It's just a This is the option sellers win today. If you sold calls on SoFi today, you win. Everyone else loses. If you bought calls, you lost. And if you held it for a swing trade, I mean, you know, you're not necessarily winning. But if you sold some calls, like you're doing okay. Outside of that, it's just not really making that big of a move. UPS again, that announcement today to lay off people. That stock up 7%. But still green on the day. Nvidia 19331 is what you've got on Nvidia. Uh let's get some more updates on what's going on with some of this AI stuff uh in the Middle East. Let me see if I can pull some of this stuff up here. Do we have any of these updates? Yeah, let's get a little bit of this coverage right here and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Investors and CEOs coming here. This is the sort of tentpole event that Saudi Arabia has hosted for several years now. And there are two, I would say, big sectors represented here this year. It's finance and its technology. And those increasingly are the companies and the the sectors that are pouring into the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. It's something that was supercharged by President Trump's visit here. Remember, I was here for that and started to talk about in May. And a lot of these companies are doubling down. So there are world leaders here as well. I had a chance to moderate a panel with three finance ministers from the UK, from Turkey, from Qatar. And we talked a lot about AI as a national strategy, how you protect your own industry, but also partner with other companies. Rachel Reeves, who's the chancellor of the checker from the UK, very much saying the UK is open for business. We are deregulating. I think something she was trying to underscore as a differentiation point from, for instance, Europe. Um, also coming off the heels of some big AI deals announced during President Trump's state visit to the UK.
>> All right, so you got some AI stuff going on in Saudi Arabia and that potentially also could be a catalyst for a lot of the AI names. Uh, some other updates right here. The Qualcomm CEO today said you can train on Nvidia and run on Qualcomm. So, you got the Qualcomm CEO making the argument that you can run a lot of your inference on Qualcomm even if you're training on Nvidia. Uh Tesla flow, you I'm looking at the option flow. You have millions of dollars coming in to the $500 1114 strike, the 555 January 16th strike and the 455128 strike. It's almost 4 to 5 million of premium coming in. And then on Meta, someone bought 5 million of Meta puts expiring in 3 days. Uh strike is 755. Where is Meta right now? Meta at the moment is 748. Okay, so they might have bought this a bit earlier when Meta was higher, but there you go. some. Yeah, when Meta was 758, it looks like they bought these 755 puts or at least above 755. Spent a good five million on it. I mean, I don't actually hate that, dude. The idea that Meta pumps all the way back to 800. I mean, maybe, but they've got to put up some really good earnings to get there. I'm not sure if we if we get that BitMine right there 5326. That's also down about half a percent. Fanny May is Q3 earnings tomorrow. Something's going on. They've been adding a lot of big names to their team over the last month. Yeah. I mean, in Fanny May, you know, PY has gotten a lot more people excited about that. So, that's going to be an important earnings for us to look at. Tesla's still moving. Let me check resistance at 465, folks. Let's see if we can get there. Uh Tesla 465 resistance. Is SoFi losing 29? Oh my goodness, dude. Freaking SoFi, dude. Oh my goodness. Five cents away from losing 29. 465 resistance on TESI is 71,000 shares. 71,000. 71,000 for Tesla. Nvidia 192 Tesla 464 pounder 189. Sam Alolman says uh opening I will not get a stake in the forprofit restructuring. Hold on. Let me see what Sam Oldman said. Um, do we have his exact quote on that? No, we have What does that mean? Sam Alman of OpenAI says will not get a stake in OpenAI for profit. Oh, he's saying Oh, I think he's saying he Oh, yeah. He will not get the stake. He will not get the stake. Okay. So, I think he has a stake in the nonprofit. And if I'm not wrong, I believe the stake is worth 10 billion. So it looks like he has a stake in the nonprofit, not a stake in the forprofit restructuring enterprise of OpenAI. Look, here's my take on this. Uh I think Sam Alman is someone who does care about achieving AGI and like you know making sure that AI is something that is achieved in our lifetime in terms of the highest potential of it. I do not think this guy is not money motivated. I know he tries to create an image that he's not money motivated. I mean that famous congressional speech where you know they were like hey you know how much money do you make and he's like oh I don't make any money I do this with love. It's like I don't know bro because if that was the case I think a lot of the controversy with Elon wouldn't be what it is today. A lot of this has to do with the fact that Elon funded OpenAI with 50 million bucks and Elon has no stake in it. Not the for-profit, not the nonprofit, not the PBC, anything. And you would imagine if Sam Alman doesn't care about money that that wouldn't necessarily be a point of contention, but I feel like he's not necessarily the most honest there. Also, we're talking about AGI, folks. We are talking about trillions and trillions of dollars. You're telling me the guy that's putting in all the work as the CEO of the company that's leading that revolution doesn't care about being rewarded for I mean, like just it's just human nature. like you want somewhat of an equity stake because you're you know you're you're potentially building a multi- trillion dollar enterprise. So I think we're going to have to see what his exact ownership stake is. But even if it's not in the for-profit company, I think he will still have a significant ownership stake in the nonprofit. Microsoft right there 545. That's up 2.65% on the day. PayPal is still moving. PayPal right here. It was up 10%. PayPal. Wow. Up 12%. It's not really giving up the pump. Yo, put in the chat if you own PayPal. I mean, today is your day. Today is your day. There's not many times in the past three years that we've seen PayPal actually hold a pump. Forget 12%. It's barely been able to hold two or 3%. This is actually a really big deal for PayPal. And again, why? Well, they they called up Sam Alman and said, "Hey, we need some help." And as a result of announcing their partnership, there you go. Did people sell too? It's been painful. I own a little of it. I have a little more. Nordic says I have a pain I have a PayPal account. Um, that's hilarious. Um, uh, okay. Let me let me pull up this video as well. This is the what the video looks like for Chat GBT to check out with PayPal. As you can see right there, this is why the stock is really moving today. Also, they gave a dividend finally. I mean, look, now every dividend ETF can buy PayPal and they can justify it because there's a dividend. And also, it's I mean, we know PayPal's undervalued, so maybe it's not the worst buy for a lot of these dividend ETFs, but this video right here, Chad integration is why you're getting some love. So, that's what you got on PayPal. PayPal right there, 78.50. That's up 11.2% 2% on the day. There you go. Vistra is down 6% because the CEO planned to sell for some taxes. Yeah. I mean, that's kind of stupid. If the CEO is selling and it's already a planned sell for taxes, that's just probably the ALGO interpreting it negatively. I mean, this is what the ALOS do, right? They get a headline and they get hit. Wow, Intel though, 5%. Intel breaking the highs that it was at last week, which is nice to see after the earnings. Um, and there you go. Intel right there, 4154. That's up 5%. Nvidia 192 53. He's selling 8 million. All right. Well, the stock is upset about that. Intel is still up 5%. URI is up 16%. I know this company. Oh, uranium. Wow. A lot of the nuclear names and uranium obviously a big component of that getting some love based on that um Brookfield deal with CCJ. There you go. Energy is going to be a theme for 2026. And some of these names are really benefiting from the the leadership in energy. S&P still up on the day and then AMD 261. Where is Soundhound? Soundhound up about 1%. Beyond Meat, are we still moving on that? Beyond Meat 19207, that's up 14%. And then ASST, that stock's still down 10%. The nuclear ETF is up 7%. Yeah, I mean again the headlines on that should just continue to get more and more excitement across the board. Uh Barclays is buying Best Egg for 800 million. Best Egg originates unsecured personal loans that Barclays can package into an assetbased security. The platform has about 11 billion in loans and expects to originate 7 billion more this year. I mean I think we're going to see a lot more consolidation in the banking space. Jamie Diamond talked about that as well. So you are seeing Barkclay's bet on some of the broader consumer lending companies. And look, they wouldn't be buying a company like Best for 800 million if they thought consumer loans were default or delinquent, which is uh the opposite narrative that you know some of the regional banks potentially painted. So I don't think there's a consumer credit problem as aggressively as you know some people may be thinking. Now it's something we have to watch out for because auto delinquencies and credit card delinquencies aren't the best, but they're also not the worst, which means it might not be as structural. Wayfair still up 19% on the day. Still up 19% on the day. Skyworks by the way is up 13% as well. 13.5. That was based on the merger that they announced today. So that one also getting some love. Year to date it's still down 2%. But today up 13.5. I think I'm going to have the Redcat CEO on the show tomorrow guys. So, we'll talk to him um and we'll get his update on what's going on with the new partnership. The announcement pounder that's up 5%. I think tomorrow we're going to be live all day. I think we I mean we have JPAL at 2 o'clock. Then we have big tech earnings at 4. We usually end the stream at like 11. So, it's really just two hours between 11 and two. So, I feel like we might as well just go live the whole day. We'll bring on some guests. We'll talk to a bunch of people. I think tomorrow's going to be an old day stream. Your boy's not going to be eating for like 10 hours, dude. It'll be fun though. It'll be fun. I may ask about the show report. Yes, I'll ask him about the show report as well. We'll see what uh what he has to say. Oh, it's three hours before 11 and two, right? 12 one two. Yeah, three hours. Okay, we'll pass the time with three hours. You know, we can can find a way to talk about something with three hours. Um, two hours between 11 and two. Your mom would be proud. Oh my gosh, dude. S&P 686 SoFi still red on the day. We can look at more cringe photos for three hours. Dude, my assistant picked out those photos. What do you want me to say? like I didn't get a chance to look at them, so she picked out whatever she could and and I showed it to you. All right, Trump and Japan. So, we had a lot of uh clips yesterday from Trump going to Japan. He had a really good meeting with the newest prime minister. Here are some things that uh that Trump had to say based on the meeting.
>> Phenomenal day here in Japan with a momentous trade deal. We made a big big beautiful trade deal for both countries. In fact, to the best of my knowledge, I think Japan also had their best stock market day ever. So, your new prime minister is doing very well. First female, first woman prime minister. And I said, you already hit the highest stock price you've ever hit. So, she's very happy. And we spent the whole day together. It was beautiful. And she's she's great. We went out to the George USS George Washington, the SS George Washington. It was uh it was really great. This the uh the sailors and a lot of others. We had a lot of people, a lot of military people were there, but boy, there was some scene. It was incredible. You wouldn't believe that a ship could hold that many people. But I just want to uh say that she is a delight and she's going to be I think she's going to be a great prime minister. Really do. I've got to know pretty well in a short period of time. She was a very good friend and ally of Shinszo Ababi who was a friend of mine, one of my best friends in terms of this world, the world of nations. And uh he was a great man and he got unfortunately what happened to him was sad, very sad, but uh he was a great leader and uh we we miss him very much. But a fantastic tribute to the US Japanese alliance aboard that ship.
>> Uh and then this is what Trump said about the meeting with Xi coming up soon.
>> I'll be meeting with uh President Xi the day after tomorrow. I'm going to uh a wonderful place where I think a lot of you may be going. Uh we're going to be meeting tomorrow at a very fantastic meeting. Who's going tomorrow? Is anybody going that I know in this room? I think a lot. Tim, are you going? Maybe. You're not. You mean you came here for this
>> and you're just going back just like that? Huh? Well, we'll go be going to South Korea and then on the following day a meeting with President Chi as you probably heard. I'd be surprised if anybody didn't hear. That's a big big meeting and I think it's going to work out very well. Actually, I think it's going to be great.
>> I think the meeting will work out very well. I think it's going to be great. Again, that's also why the markets have lowered their assumptions of the China tensions increasing. if Trump is going to be able to negotiate meaningfully with uh with G. By the way, this Japanese PM, she seems to like Trump. Reuters Reuters is reporting today that she plans to recommend Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize. So, I mean, not only that, she's planning to buy a ton of more soybeans as well. She already bought a ton of F-150s from Ford. So, she's buying soybeans, she's buying our trucks. Japan is already investing 550 billion as per the trade deal they uh they they settled on three months ago. And she's going to nominate him potentially for the Nobel Peace Prize. I mean, Japan is making sure they lock in with Trump. The happier the puses, the better for all of us. No, that's a fact, bro. Trump gets upset, we get some tweets, we lose hundreds of thousands of dollars within seconds. Just keep this guy happy, bro. Just keep him happy. Is Sofi still down? Where's SoFi? Oh my goodness. She lost 29. Oh my goodness. She lost 29. Why not? Why not? 28.887. This is what it is. This what you got. We got so far. Entire market is falling. Are we? S&P is still green. Yeah, S&P's still looking still is. I don't think it's the entire market. You do have Google down, Grabs down, Reddit's down, Amazon's down. Amazon slightly down. Meta losing 750. Apple's down. Tesla still holding 460, but SoFi getting hit. Also, no one blamed Tanner for SoFi. I'm obviously just joking when I when I say we're going to blame Tanner. Tanner can't control anything about it. Tanner's done a phenomenal job analyzing this company. It's more so a joke because it's like, you know, the reason I kept saying this because like maybe Tanner can finally be the reason why this stock doesn't dump after earnings. Uh but you know, it is what it is. It's how SoFi trades. Now granted, SoFi is still up 100% year to date. And SoFi likely, in my opinion, towards the end of the year will inch up to 35. And that's just how SoFi tends to to move as a stock. It doesn't move on earnings to the upside. It dumps on on earnings and then randomly you'll wake up and it starts making a move. So, as much as I want to blame Tanner, it really is not based on Tanner. If they're going to dump it now, they need to dump it. Like, if they're going to like at this point, let me buy it back at 2526. Like, this is the thing I hate. I think you guys would agree. You hate like if you're if a stock is going to give you a dip, give a real dip. Don't give these stupid dips. Like, if you're going to take it down, then take it all the way down and let people buy because we know it's a fundamental good company. nothing in that quarter justified a 4% downside move. I mean, I can't think of anything outside of maybe the stock was pumping too much. And so, if that's the case, then fine, but give us some more pain. Matt says, "Screw that. We're going to blame Tanner." I don't blame Tanner. I blame TJ's strangle. Yeah. Didn't Wait, what strike did TJ have on the top part of his strangle for the calls? Cuz TJ needed SoFi not to move that higher either, right? Was it like 32? I think he needed to keep it below 32 to make sure his strangle didn't go into uh did didn't essentially get in the money. And so it's actually TJ's fault. It's not Tanner's fault. Oh, he had 36. Ah, we can't blame TJ then. We had plenty of room. We had plenty of room. I mean, this thing could have got to 35. All of us would have been happy and TJ would have been having no issues. at 36. He was playing it safe, bro. I thought he was way more aggressive. VIX is up. VIX is green. That's correct. Nvidia GTC is not live yet, guys. Nvidia GTC is at 12 if I'm not wrong. Are they live? Oh they're live. Jensen. Oh my goodness. Jensen's here. Hold on. Oh, and Figure. Oh, holy. Hold on, hold on, hold on. Whoa. do humanlike work in the physical world.
>> And you know what is such great timing? We're talking about humanoids. We're talking about the collaboration with Nvidia. And why not just ask the leader of NVIDIA himself to just share some some insights.
>> Thanks for having me. Yeah, good to see you.
>> So we are actually talking about job. Well, we were talking about AI and the concern right now about job displacement. And I know that you are involved.
>> What's everybody doing here?
>> Watching you at the moment. That's for sure. And us, right? Could you just speak to maybe um the evolution right now with AI?
>> I want to be on TV with Brett.
>> I'm gonna I'm gonna get to why we're in DC in a second, but I just wanted to get your insights on the concerns about the job force and what AI efficiencies would mean for the job force, especially right now given some jobs are starting to be spread thin.
>> We have labor shortages all over the world. If we had more workers, companies would make more money. If we were productive, more productive, companies would make more money. When we make more money, we invest more money so that we hire more people. And so, it's very likely that the companies that use AI first, that use robotics technology first, will be the most successful first and then we'll end up hiring more people. You're going to lose your jobs not to somebody, not to a robot. You're going to lose your jobs to somebody who uses a robot. You're gonna lose your jobs to somebody who uses AI. And so, so, uh, if you look at NVIDIA today, we 100% of our software engineers use Cursor 100%. And we're hiring faster than ever because we're creating more chips than ever. We're developing more software than ever. We're more productive than ever. And it looks like the company's growing faster than ever. So, there's a lot of great things that goes along with being productive. Nobody ever says, you know what, we want I want a company to be less productive. I've never heard that before. I've never heard somebody who's who well if you look at look at uh companies around the world about what is it 70% of the companies in the world feel their their labor short and that they have a hard time hanging on to employees and so the robotics is going to really help that but here here's the thing I think Brett you're on to something huge this is likely the next largest next giant consumer electronics market
>> and so I think he's on to something.
>> You I love that Brett's you're helping me with my job. See, I'm going to be displaced.
>> I'm here to watch him. Are you kidding me?
>> Can you speak about the significance of being here?
>> Brett just closed. You closed around.
>> Yeah, we talked about it.
>> Figure is worth what? 3040 billion today.
>> Yeah, close.
>> 29 was it? Or 30
>> 39 39 39 billion through here. That is impressive. And congratulations. We did talk about that giant leap.
>> You're a whopping three-year-old company. Three and a half.
>> Yeah. Well, that extra half really made a difference.
>> Incredible.
>> Which is a great example.
>> Three years after I founded Nvidia, Nvidia was worth still precisely 0 billion.
>> Yeah.
>> Perplexity. I was speaking to the Perplexity CEO. Same thing. Just a few years, 300 employees, valuation in the billions, too, which is
>> doing great,
>> which is a success story with AI. Could you speak to the significance about being here in DC? Because this is the fourth GTC. Um, it's a different groups of people. I met some people from the military, some that have never really they don't understand the interconnects of AI, quantum, forget it. Can you speak to why we're here?
>> The technology industry has really changed. You know, Brett, when I first started the company, um, quite frankly, nobody nobody cared. Nobody cared about technology companies to be honest. and we're just we're uh startups in Silicon Valley doing our thing. Um but today technology is at the forefront of almost every single geopolitical conversation. Technology is obviously one of the most important industries in the world. And what I can say is that on behalf of and both Brett and I, you know, have the benefit of serving and being part of the American technology industry that I would say is our national treasure. This is our single most valuable industry. Um, unquestionably one of the most important industries in the world and uh, really we're really proud to be part of it and and so anyhow,
>> what would you make sure that make sure that Washington DC uh, has a has a front row seat of uh, what NVIDIA is working on and what what Nvidia is going to be working on. And so this is um, GTC bringing GDC to DC is really exciting for us. you know, doing GTC at our nation's capital. Yeah, it's incredible.
>> What do you think are the major roadblocks? Power has come up a lot in the conversation and it seems like we do have a lot of headlines building out x gigawatts, but the capacity to to build that infrastructure is is a roadblock essentially. So, what do you say to that? That maybe these promises uh can't come to fruition in the near term.
>> Uh cash flow matters, power matters. Um, uh, land power and shell matters, power generator matters. Uh, these are all things, factories matter. These are all things that Brent and I think about all the time. And, uh, his business, my business, it's really very similar. But it comes down to one thing and one thing only, profitable token generation. The moment we have intelligence that's worthy of being paid for, and as soon as that flywheel goes, then everything else will take care of itself. And this is no different than the moment that human robotics starts to do productive things and people are willing to pay for it and it's a profitable endeavor, then you could scale up as large as you want to scale up. This is no different than when TSMC in the old days manufactured the first profitable wafer. The moment that happened, they could build up as the factories as large they want. And so that's really the moment we're looking for. We're looking for that virtual cycle where AI starts to generate productive tokens, profitable tokens. After that, the flywheel takes off.
>> An executive at another company told me that tokenization or just profits per token could be the next oil and and for company countries all around the globe really focusing on that output. Do you kind of agree with that just in terms of tokens? And maybe explain too to our audience because not everybody here as is as advanced. Computers speak numbers. Tokens are numbers. Tokenization, you tokenize. We tokenize almost everything. We tokenize images, words, uh Brett tokenizes motion, you know, a sequence of plans that a that a uh that a robot performs. And so everything that we can tokenize, AI can understand. So if we can tokenize proteins, and we can tokenize chemicals, we can tokenize motions. what uh action and behavior all these things that Brett is trying to tokenize. We tokenize video, we tokenize 3D, everything. We tokenize uh fluid dynamics, we tokenize anything we can tokenize, AI can understand. And everything that AI can understand, it can translate. It can generate. And so that's the that is the revolution that we're in. And that's why token is at the core of everything that we do. And ultimately what we fundamentally do is to transform electricity into tokens. And that that's what an AI factory does.
>> We come full circle. I've been told that you have to keep going so we keep the show on the on on because you have a keynote which is very soon. Yeah. An hour and 15. Jensen, thank you so much. We'll see you soon. So we'll actually continue this conversation because we did interrupt a little bit and now you've got a massive crowd to watch you. So no pressure. um if we could.
>> Okay, so we got some Jensen figure conversations. I think this GTC is going to be a fun one, dude. I think they're going to have a lot of different stuff that potentially could really help Nvidia, help the broader AI sector. So, I will be streaming it. I just got a text from Tanner. Tanner and I will be streaming it together. Tanner and I will be streaming it together. 11:55 a.m., an hour from now, Tanner and I will be streaming it. Uh, and we'll be together. I will transition into the close. Tanner will probably leave after GTC, but we'll be streaming it together. By the way, Sam Alman just tweeted that they're going to do a live stream and answer questions at uh 10:30 Pacific. We're going to talk a lot about our new corporate structure research. He says, "On the structure, the nonprofit remains in control, and if we do our jobs well, we will be the best resource nonprofit ever. We are excited to get to work immediately deploying the capital." I am grateful to the Delaware and California Attorney Generals, our partner at Microsoft and our investors, especially to our tireless team for their work in getting to a good place here. Okay, there you go. So, Altman will give an update. Dude, there's a lot of news today. Altman's going to give an update on this Microsoft stuff. Microsoft just announced the new corporate restructuring on their equity stake and opening eye. We're going to get more updates from Sam Alman. GTC is going to happen in about an hour. Jensen's going to be potentially announcing a bunch of new things. Nvidia right there 19280. SoFi still losing 29. PayPal still holding a 10% move. Tesla giving us 2% and then the broader S&P up a bit on the day. Okay, there you go. Looks like uh looks like that. Oh, we got more Jensen. We got more Jensen. Do we
>> I think we have more Jensen. Hold on.
>> Uh solve a lot of very sticky problems, very challenging problems associated with quantum computing and the ecosystem and ourselves were doing some amazing work. It remains incredibly hard. I mean, the work you guys do, it's deep science. You know, we do deep engineering. They do deep science. And and so so I I'm excited about the work that we're doing together. I won't I won't I won't ruin it by telling you guys what it is. Um but but um this doesn't work.
>> Now I test it.
>> It's okay. No, no. This this is about you guys. This is about you guys. And apparently I want to thank everybody for coming to GTC in Washington DC.
>> Yeah. So So the original plan I just I'll be I'll be honest. The original plan was uh President Trump was going to be in Washington DC and so we brought GTC to Washington DC. The administration's all going to be here and then and then um uh literally two days. Oh my goodness. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That was the best part too. That was the best part. I was closing out the tabs. No. Okay. Let me go back. Let me go back to when he said that. Sorry, I'm an amateur. I'm sorry.
>> I just I'll be won't ruin it by telling you guys
>> I want to thank everybody for coming. I just I'll be I'll be honest. The original plan was uh President Trump was going to be in Washington DC and so we brought GTC to Washington DC. The administration's all going to be here to Washington DC. The administration's all going to be here. And then and then um uh literally two days ago uh President Trump said, "Jensen, could you uh be in Korea today?" And I said I said, "I would love to be in Korea today, but I came to vi visit you in DC." And so anyways, we're we're in two sides of the world.
>> Dude, that is hilarious. That is hilarious. They brought GTC to DC so that Trump could be part of the experience and now Trump asked him to go to Korea. That is a wild but it goes to show you how much respect Jensen has for Trump that he brought their conference to to Washington DC just to be closer to the administration and then unfortunately you know if you're the president sometimes you have to go on some trips. Uh but it goes to show the relationship with the administration Nvidia is is pretty strong.
>> But anyhow, uh he wishes all of you well. He he's he gonna see me in a day and uh we're going to we're going to we're going to go and um support support the president uh as in his in his tour through Asia. You know, he's our president. We want him to be enormously successful so that America could win and America could win. And so anyways, I want to thank everybody who's here working in DC. Thank you for uh thank you for your service and thank you for coming to GTC.
>> All right, great to see you.
>> Take care.
>> I mean, look, call it respect, call it kissing the ring, whatever you want to call it. Just get Nvidia to go to five trillion. That's that's what most of us cares care about here. But it goes to show again, you want your CEO to have a good relationship with the administration. And it looks like Jensen has tried to relationship with Trump.
>> Also, we got those rumors in the morning that Trump will be meeting Jensen later throughout the day. It looks like Jensen just confirmed that and as a result, that's what you're seeing right here uh from GTC and video right there 193 S&P 500 at 686. Yes, if this unlocks China, which I don't think we'd get the update today, but if Trump says, "Hey, I'm meeting with Xi in five days, part of the deal is going to be allowing Nvidia and AMD to sell." I mean, Nvidia and AMD could carry the S&P to 7,000 by themselves. Because you would imagine like a minimum 5 to 10% pump once China is officially allowed and the export controls are gone. I mean, we're talking about literally, I think for Jensen, it's about, what did he say? Uh if you do the math about 20 billion a year in 15 to 20 billion a year for AMD I don't know the exact numbers but for Nvidia it's a cool 15 20 billion per year from China which would be very important. So getting a little a little bit of a reversal are we SoFi? Yeah a little bit. 2880 to 2934. So it's not giving it up that badly yet but still below that uh that $30 level. Someone bought 3.4 4 million on Baba puts for 1121. Huh. Okay. Baba's had a great year. Strike price is what? 167. 3.4 million of puts for Baba. All right. Cool. Good stuff. I will be back guys at 11:55 with Tanner about an hour from now. S&P 500 right there at 685. Pounder down a little bit on the day. Tesla's up. Nvidia's up. Robin Hoodie at 146. You got AMD up 199. And then he got S&P at 685. Tanner and I will be live together and uh at 11:55. I did buy the Amord dip. I just bought 100 shares when Jensen was talking. So, not a crazy amount, but I did buy the dip. Again, I I went through a little bit of the earnings yesterday. I have to listen to the call today. This is a stock I feel very confident for going into 2026. It's trading at a very attractive level and everything they said about demand is good. The reason it's down is because the CEO left and gross margins were a little bit down. Gross margins will increase. the CEO stepping away is like whatever. The the person who's replacing him has spent 20 years at the company and understands the operational elements of a packaging company in the United States. So, not too scared about buying the dip on that one, but I mean it's back to prices that it was back on Friday. Now, the big thing today is going to see what does Nvidia say? What companies do they announce partnerships with? Where do those partnerships accelerate in regards to the either supply chain of semiconductors or on the other broader AI names that exist in the sector? I think, you know, in general, we should see some fun announcements today. GTC tends to, you know, GTC tends to preview the newest edition of their chips, but they also tend to show off different verticals that they're entering into. I think last time they really focused on the Cosmos platform with humanoid robotics and self-driving. So, all that stuff I think is going to be really important and uh we're going to see that later later throughout the day. So, I'll be back 11:55. I will transition into the market close. So, I mean, it's basically going to be from 12 to 4 for the market close. It's going to be a busy busy day. And um and then yeah, and then and then Tanner will be gone probably at like 2 or something. And um and then we will keep going from there. So, that is what we got. Uh Amit's dentist, thank you again for the $20 super chat. So, Jensen's out here challenging your dentist. I'll be waiting in my lab coat. This is going to be a daily thing at this point. This is going to be a daily thing, but it is what it is. It is what it is. Falling knife, thank you for the $200 super chat. Appreciate you, man. Thank you for being here. Thank you for the $200 super chat. Johan, thank you for becoming a channel member. Scott, thank you for becoming a channel member. Appreciate you guys. Um, we'll be back at 12. We'll see what we got on GTC. We're not having technical Tuesday today because we have a lot of earnings. Also, again, it's really hard to do technicals on companies that are about to report. So, it it'll be a shorter market close today. We'll probably end around like 4:30, 4:45, but we'll get through Visa, Cheesecake, a bunch of these companies that have earnings and uh we'll see what Jensen has to say. Yeah, last time was a lot of emphasis on Blackwell. So, I think maybe Vera Rubin is going to get a decent amount of focus at GTC, but we'll find out at 12 PM and see what they what they say. Yeah, it's Tanner Tuesday. Exactly. Uh word of the day. All right, let's do that and then we'll be done. for at least the next hour. Um, okay. Word of the day. Uh, I don't know what this word is. Zafer. A soft, gentle breeze often used poetically to describe something light, airy, or fleeting. A warm zafer drifted through the open window carrying the scent of rain and jasmine. Okay, I think the actual word of the day should be AGI given Microsoft has talked about it extensively, but there you go. Zafer. Dude, there's no way in hell I'm mispronouncing that. That is just not There's Hold on. There is no way in hell I'm mispronouncing that. It's Zafer.
>> Zephyr. All right, I'll see you guys at 12 p.m. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.