Hi, it's Gilbert. Before we start the show, I want to let you know that we are going to be talking with the author of Project Hail Mary in an upcoming episode. I know that New York Times readers voted this book one of their top 100 books of the 21st century. And more importantly to some, there's a movie adaptation starring Ron Gosling that's coming out in just a couple of weeks. So, I'd love to hear from you. What questions do you have for Andy Weir, the author of Project Hail Mary? Let me know and I may ask him your question when I talk to him. You can send your questions by email to the bookreview@ny times.com. That is the bookreview@ny times.com. You can also find a link to submit your questions in the show notes for this episode. And now on to this week's show. So, I pitched this as a beach read, something that you could if you have two weeks off or a week off, you can finish this book.
>> The challenge was I want a historian to read through that and go, "Oh, yeah. Okay. Yeah, this guy this guy did the work. He did the work."
>> Were you worried about that? It's like I I have to
>> worried. Absolutely terrified.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm Gilbert Cruz. This is the book review from the New York Times and today on the show we're talking to firsttime author Bob Crawford. Bob has spent the last two decades touring the country as the basis for the band The AIT Brothers. Offstage he's been obsessed with something other than music, American history. In 2016, he launched a history podcast called The Road to Now. A few years ago, he launched another podcast, a series dedicated to John Quincy Adams, the nation's sixth president and son of a founding father. And now, Bob has transformed his obsession with John Quincy Adams into a new book that is out March 10th. It's called America's Founding Son, John Quincy Adams, from President to Political Maverick. So, deep inside your book, you you make the following admission, which was somewhat frightening to me. Um, I have quote I have spent hours of my life watching C-SPAN. Uh, I have to Are you okay? Is everything all right? Why
>> you spend so much time watching C-SPAN?
>> I am not in this season of my life anymore. I am in the season of my life of hardcore parenting, parenting a special needs child, you know, parenting a 14-year-old also, uh, and then, uh, being in this band that that travels a lot and then doing two history podcasts and, you know, I'm in a different season, but there was a season in the mid 90s where I was in college. And in college, you have this schedule and it can be open sometimes and you come back to to wherever you live at this point and you lay on the couch maybe for hours. Maybe for hours. I can't imagine what that's like anymore, Gilbert. I can't imagine that. Uh, and I remember in the mid '9s, we're talking Nuke Gangrich era, the Clinton administration, laying on the couch, wa just watching C-SPAN for hours, and it would be like this soothing drone of uh of of constructive monotony and uh yeah, so my se my C-SPAN watching days go back go way back. You sound with all respect like the like the coolest college student I've ever
>> Yeah. Well, in fact, and then I'm just gonna go a little further and then because I can go down rabbit holes, so you really need to hold me to account here.
>> I I will try my best. But I was at the part of the college radio station and um we would go up uh late at night sometimes and go in and it was a realtore tape
>> and me and my friend we would maybe maybe we had a you know we would go up there with our acoustic guitars and we made uh a song about watching C-SPAN and so I'm just going to leave it at that and let it drop there. So
>> I I really I don't think I can let it drop there. What was what was the name of the song? Oh, well it's the it was kind of this one line and it was uh Bill Clinton, new Gangridge and that that's I have the real to real tape. I don't have a real to real tape player. Maybe I need to send it into one of these leg one of these companies that that kind of make those tapes audio. But if I do that, I will send you uh a copy of of this.
>> Please do. I've been, you know, I feel like the culture needs a new version of We Didn't Start the Fire.
>> It is kind of like that. Yeah. Um,
>> yeah.
>> So, you you uh you know, a lot of people know you and have seen you on stage as part of this band, the Avet Brothers. Um, and it's a it's sort of a funny reversal of roles. You know, for a lot of people, cool dads in their 40s, noodling around on on the guitar on the weekends is sort of their hobby. The way they relax a little bit and sort of let their mind wander. Um, you're a musician with this popular band. Uh, and you've made American history your hobby, your sideline. Um, and I'm curious, what was the order of operations here? Like what came first? Was it your interest in history, your interest in music? Uh, probably interest in history. Uh, because that goes back to, you know, being 8 n 10 years old. um going on family vacations and uh stopping at rest stops and there would be a kiosk and it would have all the local local his like the little pamphlets
>> Mhm. of the historic sites that were nearby and I would collect those and so we would come back from our summer vacation and I'd have like you know 30 40 whatever I had many of them and I would like just lay them out on the floor and look at them and and I don't know I don't know there was just something about like there would be one you could just I can't remember specific place but like there are these like it would have these like these wax statues of a Native American or you know some uh painting of of of a battle on them and it just kind of like uh I was just captivated by it uh for some reason. Is this because you had nothing else to do or is it because you there was something about
>> I'm an active person
>> at that age it's like I this actually is genuinely interesting to me I want to know
>> I it just it just was a comfortable pl just and it is today it's a comfortable place to go and even if it's like the subject matter is not comfortable it's in fact you know the subject matter of the book it can be it's very uncomfortable and it's um and we live in uncomfortable times Uh, but the idea of of going there sometimes can help soothe or at least occupy or redirect whatever is going on here. You know what I'm talking about?
>> I mean, I I can imagine um a scenario in which the present day is stressful and therefore history is a thing that some use to take their mind away from what's happening now. Although as you many others point out
>> there are many echoes and so you're never really away from the present. No, but you're you're connected to the like what I've realized is and I think that's that's kind of the point of this book is that people haven't changed. Mhm.
>> Like I really feel like that's like uh the what' you learn Bob like doing this and I learned like like our technology has changed but the but the human heart hasn't changed the human capacity for greed or hate uh or to do harm to another human being or the human capacity to do good and to feel try to do better uh that hasn't changed at all and I think that there is something that connects us to people who came 50 years, you know, our our grand we we think about our grandparents generation and then we like imagine our greatgrandparents, what maybe we knew them, maybe we didn't. What was their life like? And then you can keep going back further and further and we are connected uh to to our past.
>> You you talk about being in a a certain phase of your life. I'm in a certain phase of my life,
>> season, right? a certain season. We're we're in late summer, early autumn, I don't know, but we're we're we're both middle-aged fathers. There is a stereotype here um of that type of person just like really being into history. Just like want to read the hell out of American history books, but you you've always been that way, it seems like.
>> Yeah. But it was never like realized.
>> Yeah.
>> You know what I'm saying? It was like um when I got into I never pursued it. So you've became a musician, a working musician, a touring musician.
>> 25 years.
>> 25 years. So a quarter century of being a working musician. I'm curious before we sort of talk intensely about JQA John Quincy Adams. um about how your interest in history sort of was was was bubbling out during those particularly those early years on the bus or wherever you guys were using to tour. Paint paint a little picture for me. It's it's early days of the band and you are in the back with a giant history tome.
>> Okay. So 2004 2005 probably we're in Iraq the nation the United States is is in fighting the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and um at the same time David McCulla the I think he considered himself just a writer but we we consider him a historian uh put out these books this John Adams biography and this book about the year 1776 right in that same time period, I think 1776 is when when I really got hipped to this. And so on at one moment I'm watching um the what were mired in the slog right of of what became the the Iraqi war and uh on TV there's um images of prisoners at Abu Gare being uh forced into pyramid like just being dehumanized by American soldiers. And then at the other channel, I'm watching David McCulla probably on C-SPAN, uh, talking about history, talking about American history, and he's doing it in a way that is very human, that really connects like like I just I talked about earlier like how we like how we are the they we are they and they are us, right? And he's talking about like, you know, our our American history. And I just love the way how eloquently and humanely he speaks about spoke about history. And so that that's where I had this idea like wow, how do we get from here to here?
>> How how did this happen? And so I decided I'm going to read my way through it. Like I read his books and then I was just I was set off and I just started like devouring as many books about American history as I could to to try to see if I could see a thread like a line. And spoiler alert there. No, there's not a line. I I really see it more like an ocean. Like American history is like deep and wide and it's really complicated and complex, but there's no straight line really. But that's what set me off.
>> So David McCulla, famed American historian, John Adams, 1776, but he's also writing about the Brooklyn Bridge. He's writing about
>> the the years, you know, the Wright brothers.
>> The Wright brothers. He he he really had a giant
>> uh range.
>> Yeah. Um and and he's for good reason many people's sort of entry to this type of non-fiction writing. He also, you know, was a narrator on several Ken Burton's documentaries. Where did you go after McCulla? And then how did that lead you eventually to
>> I'm looking forward
>> starting a podcast? Are you looking on your shelves? Is that what you're doing?
>> I can go get it if you want. Sean, do not stand up. Sean Sean Wentz like the studio's like what? Uh Sean Wentz uh the rise of American democracy Jefferson to Lincoln. That is like the that is that was the the big turning point. Like there's definitely I wrote about this period that like the period that he like really writes about that just got me. So that's where you realize oh the characters like oh man these guys are they're you know the good, the bad, and the ugly. Um and just how just like this we have the revolution and we have the civil war. Well, the Civil War didn't just happen out of nowhere. Like what? like the echoes of the revolution and there's all these convulsions and that generation leaves leaves the stage and they leave the stage to the next generation and then the next generation like they they don't have a lot of the ideals of the founding generation like like you know the son this the next generation always messes everything up like it seems like and but but this is like this is where the parties come in and this is I Literally, this is where the parties like the political parties, the political parties are formed and and the infrastructure of a political party and and um debates over the bank and the tariff and slavery.
>> And so I found that period between Jefferson and Lincoln and the way Wentz is just this, you know, you know, when you read a book and it's just so deep and I think this was like 700 pages and
>> it's quite long. It is quite long but it is it is rewarding
>> and it is it is it is an encyclopedia uh of this time period and so that was hands down the book that that um that kind of put me on this path.
>> You've called that book Sean Wins's the rise of American democracy um the pivotal book in your life. I think I heard you
>> sure
>> in one of your podcasts describe it as such. um other than introducing you to a period that you were not overly familiar with and maybe many Americans are not overly familiar with this period between the founders and Lincoln. Um was there something about the way that he wrote that spoke to you? You know, I'm trying to imagine it's my job to read when necessary thousandpage books, you know, that Yeah. What was it like for you? Uh, it was it was great because it's not it's dense, but it doesn't read dense to me. like it he it flows really well, you know, and and there are all these like threads and and people where he he brings them along to a point and then you go to another kind of like subject theme and you go, you know, then you're in another theme and then he's and somehow somehow it is like multi-layered, multitheatic and chronological at the same time, which is really hard. Like that's the struggle when I was like trying to write you know the book I wrote. It's like how do I leave this guy and go to this guy and don't break chronology
>> because uh Doug Brinkley historian Doug Brinkley I'm name dropping here. He told me that his mentor told him abandon chronology at your own peril. And I always think about that that line abandon chronology at your own peril. and chronology is your friend.
>> Well, you know, Gilbert, I thought when I pitched this, I thought I would be put with a writer
>> to be totally honest with you. This was my vision was that cuz I love research and I love talking about history and I love the scene imagining like the scene like you know and I the the this at the moment like when I was pitching this I thought that they would I imagined because my agent even said well they might want to put you with a writer. Uh, so I thought maybe they would put me with someone who what they do every day is write.
>> Mhm.
>> And together we would write this book, but when I finally was offered to write this book, they were like, you know, you you're going to write this book. Like, no, you're you're writing this book, so I wrote the book. Yeah.
>> Did that freak you out? Did it make you nervous or I mean, did you consider yourself a writer? And
>> like I know I know there's a ceiling to my writing ability. like I knew there was a ceiling because I've written little things here and there.
>> So I I did understand some writing, but I also understand that like because I wasn't just like music, right? There's a language to playing music and there's like all this basic stuff you learn and then when you're performing music, the basic stuff isn't in the front of your brain, but it's actually controlling everything you're doing. So you're doing even if you're if you're improving like Charlie Charlie Parker the great jazz saxophone it's like like learn everything and then forget it and go play.
>> And so there is an element to that with music and I imagine with any art and I know this from Scott AIT uh uh and Seth being great painters and and great visual artists and they preach that all the time too. It's like you learn like to do the strokes, you learn like to do. So I've never learned how to write technically and I wasn't a great student. Uh so even that a lot of the basic stuff. So when I sat down to write the book, I just was like I'm just going to write. I'm just just going to write and if I get into a if I'm writing and I get into a quandry uh with like chronology or bringing in characters or going from scene to scene, I'm going to just write through it. And like I just kind of convinced myself that the only way to learn how to write is to write.
>> I think that's actually kind of perfect advice for anyone who wants to write, whether they've never written before or they want to write again, is just to not let the the act of trying to craft something perfect hold you back from doing anything at all? You know, a lot of times you you know, the advice is just write it and you fix it later. If your writing is rewriting, the first draft is the thing that you just need to get down. And
>> editing is editing is everything.
>> Yeah,
>> editing and I don't care what you're doing.
>> Chronology is your friend. Editing is everything.
>> Yeah.
>> After the break, Bob shares the one diary entry from the John Quincy Adams archives that he can't stop thinking about. Let's talk about this man that you spent so much time with. Um, John Quincy Adams. He to me uh before reading this was most famous for being the first president who was a child of of another president. Um, obviously to you he was more interesting than that and I think to readers he will also be more interesting than that. When did you first realize that? What was it that led you to to this man?
>> It was Winsa's book and realizing that after he was president, he went into Congress, which is happened one other time. I'm talking not being a congressman and then becoming president. I mean being president and then taking another holding another office. The only other person who did that was Andrew Johnson. Other than that being unique and rare, why else was that interesting to you in terms of sort of his journey? Because when again with the lens to frame this in terms of discovery in the Wens book, you know, you're reading through and there's John Quincy Adams presidency which is not great and then you keep reading and oh, here comes John Quincy Adams again. He's in the house. And so like at every turn you're like, "Whoa, wait a minute." Like this guy, son of the president. Okay. Uh, president. Okay. Well, that gets him in the history books. Uh, and then when you really dig into his life, and we love TV shows, movies, great novels, great books. We love the characters who make turns in their life. And you see the deeper you look into this man, you see he makes this amazing turn, you know, inside of himself. And um and then you get to his death and that's the the cherry on top of the Sunday cuz he has like the most epic death uh in America. One of the most epic deaths in in
>> Do you want to briefly describe that death?
>> So he's been in Congress for 17 years. He's now 80 years old. Uh he was against the now we're talking 1848. He's against the the Mexican war from the from the start. And so Adams, so there's this uh this this thing they're voting on in Congress to uh commend certain generals, I guess. That's how I understand it. Uh who fought in the Mexican War. And Adams is he's he yells no, like against it. And then he's he's like getting up to speak and the people notice like he's his hands are shaking and he's trying to hold on to his desk to pull himself up and he falls over and he he you know big commotion. Mr. Adams is dying, right? And they put him on they bring in a couch and they they put put on the couch. By the way, the couch is still at the cap. Um, and and he's laying there and he's kind of like he's he's in and out and he says, "This is the end of Earth, but I am composed." And he slips into a coma and he dies 2 days later in the capital. And as Sean Wentz when I I did a a podcast series about Adams and Sean Wentz was on it and he said uh he dies with his boots on and he he literally, you know, dies with his boots on. That's how I would love to go out here at the New York Times and like the earth is is ended.
>> Like you're you're you're finishing up you're writing an a article or you're finishing my final podcast here. I'm still 80
>> and I lay the stage for two days. Um big life. So he had so many jobs. He he grew up with a father as a president as you you know as as is known. He witnessed the battle of Bunker Hill. He was a diplomat. Talk to me about all of the research that you had to do in order to write this book, all the the historians you had to tap and then this unique um or this robust archive that you were able to to tap into of all these first person accounts. First of all, I read many many John Quincy Adams uh biographies, right? So that's just basic there. But Adams, he did us all a solid because he kept a diary from his teenage years until his death.
>> And this diary I have read runs 14,000 pages. No, I have not read every entry in his diary, but I have read a lot of it that was pertinent to this the story I told. What were you able to actually learn from reading the actual words of John Quincy Adams and and how did that help you, you know, put this story together?
>> My favorite diary entry from Adams is, I believe, November 2nd, 1837.
>> Just off the dome.
>> Off the dome. And he says, uh, I was visited today by Mr. Thomas Monroe and, uh, he suffers from, uh, hypochondria. And uh he he lost his son a few years ago, his grown son. He went to fight in war in Russia and he he got a fever and died. And then he lost his grown daughter and his wife's not well. And he tells me, he comes to visit me. I guess Adams knew this guy for for decades and he came to visit him and he said, "Um, my doctor says I suffer from the blue devils. Do you know have you ever suffered from this?" And Adams, who had lost two sons, two adult sons, says, "Oh, yeah. Yeah, I I've suffered from the blue devils. What I do is essentially says, uh, uh, work, you know, I I I occupy myself with physical activity and mental activity." He's like, "That's the only way you can fight off the blue devils." And I've suffered the blue devils. like I'm I've got some hypochondria going on
>> and I've had like some serious tragedies that that that we in my family we deal with constantly and um and I find great comfort throwing myself into things like doing research and uh and so just that entry sums up why I love Adams so much. He's far from a perfect man. Uh but but he's so human. Like he's he's so so like us. Like he suffered he he suffered depression and um just the the humanness in his in his diary, not to mention like the actual historical narrative
>> is just incredible. you have been very um open about uh your daughter's cancer when she was young, her treatment, her rehabilitation, her remission several years ago. Um, and and it makes me think what you just said, not not necessarily the the the mean blues, but it's like you're reading this diary of someone who lived 160 years ago or whatever it was, and it's like, yes, this this man also had um concerns about his children and tragedies with his children and things that I can relate to in my own life and I can feel and even though I'm writing about him in Congress and I'm writing about the gay egg rule and I'm writing about the Amastad. There's still this like personal connection in a sense that is always there.
>> For sure. 100%. Yeah. Yeah. And there are some months where he disappears in his diary.
>> Mhm.
>> Like and you know he was he was just suffering you know he was going through it and he talks about and I I point that I point out in I think in the book like where he's like he's kind of like analyzing himself. Well, I don't I I'm trying I can't quote I wish I could quote that one verbatim, but he's just kind of like uh I've lost the things that I enjoy I'm not enjoying right now and I kind of feel sick to my stomach and I'm not sleeping and he's just kind of like going he's writing through like a therapist will tell you this right to keep a journal
>> you know and he's kind of writing through his symptoms and he's he's realizing you know he's
>> do you keep a personal journal
>> I have kept a few volumes that are like from my daughter's like initial illness in that year. I have like incredibly detailed great journals. I have and then I have years where it's just scribbles and scratches in past several years. I no I don't I've written a book about the most like you could write a book about him as as a diarist like he wanted he wanted to be a writer. He wanted to be a fiction writer and a poet and all these like there was a time in his life where he wanted to be an artist. Uh and he never achieved that. But his his diary is is a great is one of the greatest writing examples of writing in the 19th century. And these speeches and writings his speeches and are also um I I think are worthy of of being thought of as as being literature. But personally, no. I should I wish I did it more. I'm ashamed to be honest with you and tell you that I don't do it regularly.
>> Um, the purpose of that question was not to shame you, so I free you from that burden.
>> I'm also raised Catholic.
>> Jinx.
>> Coming up, Bob recommends some history books and shares the classic novel that he is reading for the first time. We're approaching the end of our conversation here, Bob, and I'd love to turn to our weekly segment. So, the New York Times Book Review for more than a decade has asked authors um new and old, a recurring set of questions about their reading as part of a series that we call By the Book. Um, and I have several of these extremely specific questions for you. Are you ready to answer these question?
>> I will do my best to not go down rabbit holes.
>> What is the last great book that you read?
>> You know, here here's here's the thing, and I know you're going to hate me for for saying this, but when you're researching one subject for a couple years, like, you're just reading that. Like, there's so many books that I've wanted to read that I haven't read. Um, but I think I am in the midst of reading a great book right now. Moby Dick.
>> You're reading Moby Dick for the first time?
>> Yes.
>> That's so exciting.
>> It is exciting. It's amazing. It's actually amazing. Like when you read like there are people who write history well like there are people who
>> Jill Leapour okay she's the best write writing history historian that hands down like next to David McCulla as far as writers go like she is the champion and her book her I've been reading her constitution her new book about the constitution which is incredible her these truths is just I recommend it to everyone who wants to learn about history because her writing is like butter. Like like it is so smooth and so good. So I read Mo I'm reading Moby Dick and I'm like oh my gosh like the pros like sometimes I'm not even sure what he said. Like I'm like but it's so pleasurable you know and then there's like then you'll you catch this like this small piece of knowledge like and wisdom that you're like oh my gosh is this what fiction's like reading fiction? Is this what people bragging about reading fiction all the time? Um, are you into the just overwhelming amount of detail about what whaling was like?
>> Well, but there's there's more like I'm 200 pages in and so there's yeah, there's some of that, but just even ear like uh Que uh it's just great. It's just be it is beautiful. And let me tell you why I'm reading this book is because it came out I think in 1850 and this is like a time period I'm very fixated on. I'm very fixated on the 1850s and I want to know like what were people reading and what what what art like
>> I'm convinced uh you can get a sense of the period by the art right and and this is uh you know this book has become very relevant I don't know how relevant it was at when it came out but but um yeah so anyway I'm finding great pleasure in that book more than expected.
>> I am I'm thrilled to hear that. Um I I myself had an an experience with Moby Dick I think during the pandemic where I was like okay I'm finally going to read this and it was a revelation. What book might uh people be surprised to find on your shelf?
>> I have a lot of theology books on my shelf
>> like history like I have gone through a period. I'm not there right this minute, but um but I've gone through like I I took theology classes online like at one point, you know, in in in my my time here. Um, and I have a great just it it just it just means a lot to me. And I think so I have like Thomas Aquinus's writings that might be um surprising to some people because like we a lot of people are into
>> like Thomas Merin or Richard Roar or uh like what Mir Christianity who was at CS Lewis
>> uh and I love all that. Um, but I'm reading Thomas Keading right now who he I think he was a Catholic as well. Um, but uh like I even like the more dense I can I can handle dense dense writing. I can handle it, you know, but then you read a Jill Laapour or a Moby Dick and you're like, "Oo, there's another world out there."
>> So, the goal is for you to aspire to as a writer.
>> Absolutely. And then, okay, there's a key one here. Um, what are some presidential biographies that you think everyone should read? Well, I want everyone to read uh James Bradley's uh Martin Van Beern book because it is a companion like my book is like it's all this time period this important time period between the revolution and the civil war and it is like the like the first like respectable like I mean not even respectable but like it's it is literally like the first real Martin Van Beern fulllength biography that's come out in 40 years. Uh Alexis Co, um You Never Forget Your First about George Washington. Uh and I think Lindsay Stravinsky, um Making the Presidency about John Adams. I think that that these are books that people should read. I also I do love older bio presidential biographies. Like I think I think in the older history books, historians were more apt to let the quotes speak. You know what I'm saying? I think we do use we technically and I tried to use longer quotes. I think historians these days use shorter they'll be more apt to use shorter quotes, you know, and then write their narrative around that. And I love these older uh presidential biographies. It seems like they let more of the actual people speak. I don't know. I would like to let you speak one last time with this one last question which is uh this summer is the 250th anniversary of this nation's birth. It's our semiquincentennial. It is a moment of course for the country its citizens to to reflect on on its founding. Um, as someone who's loved history your whole life, as someone who is in a sense professionally moved more towards thinking about history, writing about history, talking about history, um, how are you reflecting on this sort of impending anniversary?
>> I've been thinking about 1976,
>> the last, you know,
>> anniversary was celebrated and the country was in trouble like like it just it wasn't great. It wasn't great. like the the time like we're coming out of Watergate and Vietnam and um and we are in dire straits again. So, uh different dire straits uh but um democracy is always in crisis. And so I want people to if you don't know anything about American history, I want you to embrace this year because there's going to going to be a lot of like a lot coming at you. I would start with the uh Ken Burns uh series of the American Revolution series that came out late last year. I would also watch the uh Netflix series about Garfield. Um Death by Lightning, Death Not by Lightning. Um so um as I reflect upon this, I hope this is an opportunity for people to get into the history like like get pulled in by something they see on television. Um, and then go deeper as far as what do I think of the anniversary just in in the the based on the moment we're in as a nation and uh the challenges we face. Um like nothing is ever inevitable like uh 300 years is not inevitable. 275 years is not inevitable. It wasn't inevitable in John Quincy Adams's time. Um, and it's not inevitable now. Uh, so that's kind of how I look at it is like is like uh democracy is always in crisis. The future is always uncertain. Bob Crawford, author of America's Founding Son, John Quincy Adams, from President to Political Maverick. Thank you so much for joining the book review.
>> It was a lot of fun, Gilbert. Thank you.
>> The book review is produced by Sarah Diamond and Amy Pearl. It's edited by Lissa Anderson and mixed by Pedro Rosado. Original music by Alicia Eup. Special thanks to Dalia Hadad and Paula Schuman. We want to hear what you think about the show. Send us an email at the book review atny times.com. I'm Gilbert Cruz. Thanks for listening.