Hi everyone, I'm Nicolola Tangian, the CEO of the Norwegian Sovereign Wealth Fund and today, hey, I'm in really good company with Fabricio, the CEO of Process. Now, you may not know what process is, but they basically have incredible companies. I food, which is the equivalent of Door Dash in Brazil, Just Eat, which feeds millions and millions of people across Europe, Swiggy in India, and PayU, one of the biggest fintech platforms in emerging markets. So all in all they reach like a billion and a half people across the world and he's pretty pleased about it himself. I can see he's smiling here on the screen. So Paris we we look forward to hearing all about it. But before we talk about you, what is process?
>> Hello Nikolai. Pleasure to be here in good company. Proess is a tech company and uh we offer amazing products for one and a half billion customers on delivery, food delivery, on top of that payment, on top of that lifestyle services like events and travel and uh and we are just getting started. We do all of that in three big regions, Latin America, India and Europe. And we are reinventing everything we are doing. We are in a moment of amazing change through AI. My whole story is about reinventing everything. So I'm very excited to build the next chapters of pros.
>> What do these companies have in common?
>> I think our focus is to build an ecosystem and this ecosystem means we have to not we are not investors just to start. What we build are operational tech company that are very good in execution technology services. So when we build an ecosystem, we make sure that one company help each other through culture management model crossell innovation AI and I'm I'm investing the same kind I'm building the same kind of ecosystem in Latin America, India and Europe. So if you look to Latin America, I already had it working in Latin America. In Latin America, people talk about food, but it's 10 times bigger than I. have beverage and pet shops and payments and meal voucher and grocery and travel. The same the same ecosystem that is very sophisticated that I have in Latin America I'm building today in India where I have very similar companies and the same ecosystem I'm going to build in Europe start with just it and Alex but I'm going to expand that to the same kind of ecosystem.
>> What uh what region are you the most excited about just now? The more mature for sure is Latin America. As I told you, people talk about Thai food, but what we have in Latin America is very similar to the ecosystem that existed in China. In China, we have 10 cents, but also Alibaba, Bite Dance. And we really can crossell lots of our services. For example, we bought a travel company desparing twice as fast today because we acquired it. So it's not only does travel but we also have as I told you grocery and payment and lots of business there. So Latin America is very advanced and my objectives to replicate the same thing I did in Latin America in India and Europe. But an interesting thing I'm very excited about India because India is a really big market with a lot of potential. We invested in China. Oh we didn't talk about that but we own 25% of 10. We invested in China 25 years ago and it was more or less like India today. But I can see many of the potential to grow in India in terms of market size and grit and focus in creating big tech companies. So it's very exciting to be in India right now and I think the next 10 years is very exciting and I'm a big I'm a Brazilian but I'm a big believer in Europe. I think Europe deserves and has the opportunity to have big tech in Europe. It's our challenge to make it happen. But Fabio before we go into the businesses in a bit more detail, we have we start we have to start with your your life story, right? So you are 21 years old, you live in Brazil, you're straight out of school. What do you do?
>> I was finishing school and I said I love the Bill Gates story and Microsoft story. I want to build a hundred billion dollar global company and I started startup with two people in a small room and we started what was Maui and became food over the next 15 years 20 years actually.
>> What was the first thing you did? So you had two people sitting in a room and it's just like hey let's do hundred billion dollars. What's the first thing you do? What what was the first company? I think we did uh mobile content uh so like rington and messaging etc like in 2000 many many years ago but the first thing I did was failing I really failed a lot the company didn't succeed for the first one two three four five seven years and I learned not only about failing but I learned about the importance about culture and moving faster and innovating and managing people to have an amazing result and even we were like a 20 30 40 people company where we were always dreaming big to create a global leader and that very small company learned about management model and culture innovation and we grow to become a 10,000 people company
>> but how if you if you fail for five years a lot of people give up right
>> why did you give up
>> I think I think that's that's what we that's what I learned first I choose something that I love I love my job since day one I love the opportunity to learn to meet good people to do better to become better and uh and I also learned that failing is part of the process to learn so although we failed a lot the company become better year after year for many years we didn't raise a lot of money in this beginning we were like a very poor small company but we became very good in having the best people and innovating very fast
>> but tell me uh uh 1998 uh you start from scratch and then 2024 you are CEO of 20 40,000 people just what's in between there what did you do in between
>> failing learning finding very good partners amazing people that are better than me so my job is to find people better than me tell them a a vision about what we can do better and how we can challenge how the world is today and those people together with me they keep improving and improving our company innovated a lot. I food is one of the best operators in the world in food delivery. We started very small. It was a $5 million investment in food I made like 2013. It became a 10,000 people company that has the best products in the world. And it's not because I'm smart, not because I have an idea. I don't I don't believe in being smart. I have an idea. I believe in working a lot with very good people, being open to learn a little every day. And the result was even in Brazil not like a core country of the world we have one of the best operations in the world.
>> How did you build I food?
>> I had a reasonable company Maui and Maui was I don't know $100 million company something like that. Uh but I really wanted to build a hundred billion dollar company. So I started to invest in other business to understand how I could use my culture and innovation capability to build something a 100 times or thousand times bigger. Then I acquired Icewood. It was a $5 million company. acquired for I think $5 million something like that and uh and I put there culture management model and innovation and we started to dream big to create one of the biggest food business in the world. When we acquired that it was a company doing 20,000 orders per month. This month we are doing 200 million orders per month. So we grow a lot. I don't know how to say this growth in percent.
>> Okay. So how do you so how do you do that? How do you how do you go from a dream to actually achieving this? What are the what are the important steps if you want to build a business like that?
>> The important steps people think big is very important. Believe you can do it and really think big. Having the best people and I invest a lot in people, not people that I can hire, people that can execute and deliver and dream and do better every week.
>> How do you find these people? I find people that is that deals well with uncertainty and with big challenges. I hire people that's that that can that I tell them look my goal is unbelievable big and most people get uncomfortable about that and I say you are going to be in charge of that. Many people they don't they don't feel empowered enough to build amazing things. So I I I hire entrepreneurs. That's the question, the point. My first value is entrepreneurship. I hire people that want to to have big impact and then I empower them a lot. Let me tell you one thing. I also fire people. So many times doesn't work. And I know in Europe people doesn't like to talk about that. People in Europe say, "Oh my god, doesn't find anyone ever." I don't know. I have to find the best the right people to the right place. And sometimes they're not the right people and they leave the company. And it's it's good for the company. It's good for them. I need to have people that say I'm going to be empowered to have an amazing impact and that's my job. Put the people there and they do amazing things and innovate everyate. What's the key to innovation?
>> Innovation to me is look we have a successful business. We have 10 to 15 billion dollars in revenue and every day and we have profitable now like a one to one and a half billion dollars in profitability. But every day I started the company saying it's not good enough. We are not the best in the world and if we even if we are we have to do better. So the level of pressure in the company to disrupt everything and do better is daily every day we have to do it better. So you have to have people with the open mind to think I'm going to find a new way. I'm going to find a hack to do things better. Uh we are in a technology business and we are in a AI moment. I see the people in the financial world talking about AI and doing spreadsheets. I hire people that understand the how AI transform everything and this is so amazing.
>> Tell us about some of the innovations you did in the food company in Brazil. What were some of the clever things you did
>> today? For example, I food is a company run by AI. The personalization of the first page, what we offer to the customers, the push we give to them, the anti- frauds, all those the customer relationship management, all of that is through AI and there is no no guideline how to do that. You have to experiment to try to do it better. Today we spend less money in marketing our customers. We have better NPS customer satisfaction because of AI. We internally we have a system called token where we give AI give the capability to everyone in the business to use AI to do their own jobs better through agents. None of that was done like it was an idea of fabric we go there and do it. All of that starts with empower entrepreneurs move fast test 20 30 versions until you have results that makes your company better then put that on a scale because we never invest 10 million 100 million a billion because of idea. What I do is to have entrepreneurs moving fast. We call it jet skiis. Empower.
>> Tell me about tell me about the tell me about the jet skiis.
>> Jet skis means empower a small team with five 10 people to experiment as if they were the owner of that business. So they have to experiment, take risks, try 10, 20, 30 things, fail a lot until they find a way that has amazing impact. So all the innovations I told you started as yet please. a small group trying very fast until we have the best operations of our category or of the world. And why is important to tell this story? Because that's not how big companies work. Big companies usually they say let's make a a budget. The budget is a billion dollars to the CEO like this this project. Then we have one year to deliver a big big thing and then one year after you lost a billion dollars and you lost one year. So what we have to find first without money without team without one year uh timeline is to find how we make this really work that is was a jet ski a small company a startup inside a big company with the right people to innovate and deliver I don't know there's an expression I love I love that that's called ambidextrous organizations I think we heard that in I think Harvard talks a lot about that that means a corporate is very good in operate with scale. So it's very good in discipline, in budgeting, in financing, planning, but being aidextrous mean the company is very good also in disruptive innovation just like a startup. I think what I do as a manager and that's I think what people should could learn from pro today and model it should be always ambidextrous. I operate startups as a real startups crazy fast with entrepreneurs. At the same time, I can have the discipline to make a plan and execute that over one year after I find a way to succeed on a jet ski.
>> Yeah, it makes sense. I'm not so sure I'm would be a very good jet skier, but hey, uh what about some of the things you've done uh outside Brazil? So, uh in India, for instance, how did you come up with the business models in India? I think in is an amazing opportunity. We have there the biggest payment company pay you and we have the biggest food the second biggest food delivery company Swiggy and what we are doing right now is building the ecosystem around that. That's what we are doing today. So over the last six months for example we invested in happyoup is a number one ride hailing company. We invested in a few fintech so we can now give credit to our users and we started to integrate weiggo. It's a right uh travel business and now I'm putting all of them to work together just like Brazil. So in Brazil I have companies growing faster because they are working together in India. Now I'm I'm offering credit and payment uh services to all our companies. We have 20 companies that are in India. So they can transact with smaller uh uh friction. Better than that, right now we are creating what we call large commerce model, a an AI model that use the data from all our companies to make all of them operate better. So we understand better than any other company about what the customers want, how what they buy, when, how I serve them better. So you see we are using again technology innovation to make all our companies work together. That's what we are doing Ninja right now and I think we have half billion customers more than that in India and I think it's going to be an amazing ride not only the next quarter over the next 15 years.
>> We'll zoom in a bit more on AI but before that tell me about the just eat deal you did in Europe.
>> We had a big business in Europe that is Ox uh and EMAG but my vision is build the same ecosystem. So it start with high frequency business. That's why food delivery is so important. People buy food delivery many times per week. We know their payment method. We know their address. So on top of a high frequency business, I can create many other business. That's what I did in Brazil and India. Then we acquired just eat. Um just eat was a good just it was a food company and I had a very different view for just eat. I don't think the thing is being a food company. You have to be a tech AI first company. So the reason I acquired just not because it's an investment is because I think I can operate just much better. Sharing the knowledge we have on innovation from India, on AI from Brazil, on management and culture from pros. We acquired that I think we took the company less than six months ago, five months ago and we transformed the company completely from a food business to a technology business. So now we talk about innovation, AI, large commerce model. We are moving much faster. We build entrepreneurship to make the company really dream to be the best in the world and I think Europe needs deserves he acquires big tech in Europe. So after acquiring just it we have now a big AI lab in Amsterdam.
>> Yeah.
>> But I'm sorry but just before before we get to that you had to sell your stake in delivery hero right
>> whilst at the same time competition could make acquisitions. just how do you look at the you know the European regulatory environment?
>> I am a optimistic CEO founder but it's frustrating to operate in Europe because at the same time I have everyone in Europe saying I need big tech. I need innovation. I need AI. I said I'm ready to invest $10 billion to build that in Europe. And then the regulator said no you have to divest. And I even told the regulators, I'm going to divest and sell to an American or a Chinese company. They said, we don't care. So Europe. So a funny thing, I see the the the American companies having the government trying to say, I need big tech here. Let's make my big tech global leaders. I see the same thing in India, the same thing in China. In Europe, I have to fight Europe. I have to spend a lot of energy say Europe. It is good. It's necessary to have big tech here. And what's happening right now in Europe is that Europe is succeeding in avoiding big tech in Europe and succeeding in making the Americans and the the the Asian big tech to win in Europe because the European companies can't win in Europe. So they I I have I I had I have an obligation to sell my participation delivery hero. I absolutely disagree with this direction. Uh I interesting thing uh two weeks ago Europe said we are going to change our guidelines on the M&A and then we we said okay so like why we are selling we are an European company have two European players why we are selling one of them and they said we are changing next year you have to sell this year so I think Europe didn't understand that AI things happen every month I know we talk about AI later but the rate of change in the last two months it's crazy
>> let's talk about AI do you think AI AI is underhyped.
>> I think AI is underhyped. This is a crazy phrase to say and the reason is I do that operationally. I am a CE of a big company but I understand the details about what's happening. Many people last year was talking uh maybe there's overhype and next year things are going to cool down. It's the opposite. What's happened the last three months? It's much more than everyone expected for this year. In robotics, obviously robotics is moving at crazy speed, but what's happened with open claw or with cloud code in the last 60 days is substantially more than what happened before and it's going to change completely how companies work. How is your group going to work going forward with by implementing the you know everything you can do in AI?
>> We will have every time more autonomous organizations where AI do much more than making the job of one person 20 times faster. What AI is going to do is to make the whole company 100 200% more efficient. Until now people are trying to make their job faster. I have to do a document. I say AI help me with this document. what is possible today is much more than that and it was not possible in December. So that's the thing that many people didn't understand from December to May now it's possible to teach an AI to to to teach the intelligence of the company to an AI. So the company can really operate for not for 10 minutes by itself but can operate for one to three days by itself. Internally we have 20,000 people creating agents that makes their substantially more productive. The last month I gave a a course to all our executives starting with the CEO so they can program by themselves. You can think are you crazy? We're talking about CEOs of five 10 billion dollar company making software. Yes. Because when they learn what they can do in four hours work they understand that all their goals can be substantially bigger. They can deliver software substantially faster. They can automate things substantially faster. I myself I did a soft that we call auto research software that enable parts of the company to auto to work by themselves and me myself and the cos are doing that not because I'm going to run the the soft we do but because after we do that I can I can started to operate in weekly cycles and not in monthly or bimonthly cycles. I think that's going to all the comps are going to change completely because of what's possible to do today. Many people ask ah when AGI arrives that's not the right question. AGI will arrive in one two three four years. The point is that with the technology we have today for example open claw and how you can ask an assistant that has memory to build a whole system for you and you're not even a programmer. So because of this kind of technology the companies are going to be different and the compan that are fast enough to do it first they are going to have a disproportional benefits over the next I'm not three years I'm talking this year
>> how do you spread knowledge across the group so let's say now you come up with something great in Amsterdam where you have your AI lab how do you make sure that uh Brazil India uh that they benefit from it
>> I think that's my job that's why I'm an operational CEO I have to know what is exceptional in our companies all around and I have to make sure that this spreads together with the culture to everyone else. Every two weeks we have the senior management together. Every four weeks we put all the CEOs together like 30 40 people to discuss what is exceptional in the company. So people know what's happening and they copy. That's what I built. I build an ecosystem where when I have a disruption in AI in Amsterdam, I have to have that running in Brazil and India in two weeks. Then I fly 100 people to Brazil. Right now I have like 50 to 100 people in Brazil discussing how to make Asian KI better in Brazil but people from all around the world. So I spend a lot of time making sure what is exceptional is spread all around. And second leadership so I am a leader that can talk about technology and product innovation with everyone and my CEOs can do that too. So the leaders should be focusing how I make products that people love. How I create innovation that can make us one year ahead of our competitors and I think we are doing that quite well. I'm very happy. I think products changed a lot last one year and I think that the next one year is going to be even more exciting.
>> Before we continue on culture just what's going to happen with payment systems when you have all your agents uh transacting how how are the payment systems going to work?
>> I think payments is going to keep changing. There's a lot of change changes happening today for example with distributed payment systems and crypto etc. And this is going to keep happening. The big thing we are talking agents and e-commerce now is we need to enable agents to complete transactions and this will happen that some people say maybe there's no there's no doubt question that we will have agents purchasing uh uh for their customers for the people that they represent. And today some companies are blocking that doesn't make sense. It is going to happen. So we as a tech company we have to enable that to enable our software sell our platform sell to agents and enable agents. A big priority for us is what we call life assistants. So it's not an assistant like Shhat GPT that just answer a question but an assistant that can order you food or buy a air ticket or a hotel or a ride hailing. That's the biggest the biggest thing we are investing now. I think we we have trade light assistants in the world today and in the base the foundation of that it is agents that completes transactions.
>> Promise how would you characterize the corporate culture in the company?
>> First thing I do is to kill the corporate world. Culture means empowering people to move faster to be innovative. We call our culture process way. Entrepreneurs that feel that they are in charge to to to have results. Innovation innovation is core to everything. We have to question what we are doing all the time. Obsession about results. We need results. I don't need smart people giving nice excels. I need results and impact. I really believe big companies should have impact and have a positive contribution to the region they are. So we talk about culture all the time. I think my job is to set the culture and the vision and some people love this culture and they work two three times more. some people doesn't fit and we have to politely suggest then keep looking to the company where they c they fit the culture. To me the most important thing pro had a good year. We had good results. We grow we are more profitable. Uh the financial people like to talk about results and numbers. To me I like to talk about culture because every result we have is because the company is more focused about giving more power to the right people, moving faster, delivering results and being more innovative. Do you have the same culture in uh in all areas like in Latin America, India and Europe?
>> Yes.
>> How do you do that? Do you have like town do you have town halls? Do you how do you communicate with everybody with your 40,000 people?
>> We start with a very clear set of goals and we summarize all of that like in one page. We call our strategic map and we reinforce that with all 4,000 people every month. Also, we put people together. everyone usually is less like 5,000 people when like the more 5,000 and then they replicate it to the other 40,000 but quite often we do big events we call strategy share usually it's four five hours event where I show direction I show what we are doing I show what's doing well and I show what's doing bad I'm very directed to say to face the brutal facts this is doing very bad and we have to fix it this month so the company has a lot of transparency that is unusual to a big company and that's what create entrepreneurial culture. It's not talking about that or putting that in the walls. It's is be believing in people enough to share what is good, what is bad, what were my mistakes and who will deliver and saying look you if you deliver more you also are going to benefit from all of that. Last week as a curiosity we did the last strategy share it was around five six thousand people all around the world and we only talk the big thing was disruption not only results but disruption so now I have the whole company thinking about okay open claw was a big disruption how process is going to be as disrupted as open claw and we are launching token claw our version of open claw and now have 40,000 people focusing on that
>> what is this new innovation going to We are talking about empowering first people inside the company but then our partners. We have 5 million partners and then our customers with the latest AI capabilities where you have agents that behave as smarter agents. It can develop software. It can do transactions. That's what Open Cloud did like three months ago and now but open CL is for nerds. It's for computer scientists. We are doing we already have it running inside the company. We're going to push it to our partners now. an open claw for everyone, an open claw that everyone can use. So you see pro is connected to what is really happening in the world of technology now. But we have the scale, the investment capacity, the reach to push that in Latin America, India and Europe and and I think this is an amazing opportunity because the innovation today starts in Silicon Valley. No, I want that to start in Bangalore, not in Silicon Valley.
>> How can you be innovative and structured at the same time? That word I told you ambidextrous is in the core of that. I I I will my answer is the opposite of what you asked me. You have to be innovative and disciplined in the same time. If you are only disciplined after two three or four years some startups takes your lunch and you stop being a big company. If you are just creative when you find something well some big company invest and again you lose the chance of really growing. So being a bit extras is the concept of you need to respect both of them. And I think this is the biggest mistake big companies do. They think I'm very good in disciplining and managing a billion dollars. So I don't respect the innovators. No, we need the innovators otherwise this company is not going to succeed in one two three years. At the same time the innovators they don't respect the big the managers because they say the managers they are too boring and slow. I spend time teaching the innovators. You need managers. That's how we are going to grow. And teaching the the the the the financial and marketing people of the of the company. You need the the disruptors. That's how we are going to keep being a a young company for many years.
>> Where could the process be in 10 years time?
>> My goal for the short term is to have hundred billion dollars more. In 10 years time we will be a half trillion dollar company or bigger and a clear global leader. Today people talk about global leaders in Silicon Valley in China. Uh 10 years to me we have to to see clearly pro as a company that's create the future of the world through technology with innovation done in Latin America and India and Europe and uh and I think this will be a big contribution to those regions
>> and global leader in what kind of industries? agentic lifestyles ecosystems. So agents that can deliver much more than it's not pure e-commerce deliver as I told you travel deliver payments deliver other services for the user and uh and this is a very big market and this is a very big market because people usually think then as individual companies if you can integrate then as a as people do in China it's a there is a space to be a real global leader
>> who will you compete the way
>> uh we have uh lots of companies the usual suspects in the valley and in China. In the valley you have some big companies doing assistance including Google and Facebook and OpenAI in China. You have Alibaba for example or M1 global players. Uh we have you have Uber that's a similar company to us too. Uh but I'm very confident we can push our innovation to the world. Let me give you one example in India. The level of innovation we have usually the world doesn't believe what's pos what what we are doing in India. We we have profitable e-commerce companies that sell things for $3 and deliver that in the whole country. American companies cannot think the innovation required to do that in 50 local language using voice as the main interface. The cost of operation that we have in India is disruptive to how an American or European company operates. The innovation we have in Brazil, it is in food delivery. We have one of the most efficient food delivery business in the world because Brazil is a difficult market. The cost of capital is very high. Operating there is very chaotic. So you need to use innovation and technology to really deliver good results. If I can use this kind of innovation to have a global leader and most of my AI R&D is in Europe. So you see I can take some things from Brazil, some things from India, something from Europe and I just need to make it $400 billion more valuable. I think we can do it.
>> How much do you work?
>> A lot. Much more than than my wife and my kids think I should work. But what I tell them is that I love what I do. I have the opportunity to travel all around the world to meet the smartest people in the world to learn with them and to have an impact that is amazing because I really think if Europe can have big tech it's going to be really good to I think Europe needs that Europe needs so sovereignty on on tech on AI. I think if you can create a half trillion dollar company in India it's amazing good for India. If you can do a hundred billion dollars company in Brazil it's amazing good for Brazil. So and also I invest a lot in social social impact and social return. I think I have the responsibility to do that. So so I work a lot but uh no one asked me to do that. I just have fun.
>> What is your advice to young people who listen to you?
>> Dream big. Uh it's possible to change everything. Young people usually look to the world and think that's how the world is. It's a lie that it's how it is today. Everything is going to change. so much in the next one, two, three, four years and the young people that can learn and build the future can do much more than they think. So study a lot, be some do something that you are passionate about because the opportunities are much better ahead than before us than behind us.
>> Well, this has been tremendous. It's uh I'm not sure I've met anybody who's been dreaming bigger than you. So, it's been a real pleasure.
>> Oh my god.
>> Great fun run, you know. Good luck and uh go get them.