Because now, the competition ability of the large model is not obvious. OpenAI has been leading for two to three years. But then people suddenly found that it was actually very fast in all areas. For example, Google's Gmini, after Gmini, it's a few hundred thousand dollars per month and it's very fast. And this app is the most... The most successful field is the core, which is more attractive than the entropy. But this is not the most fatal. The most fatal is that after the OE model came out, I thought it could lead for a while, but it can also be better than DeepC. After the Chinese company came out, I think its profit model has been challenged by several companies. If there is no DPC to enter the Chinese company, it can maintain a higher price by using its同時進場以後直接就把這個開源的這一塊 The cost is extremely low, and the performance is extremely different from that of the other. So you will find that all the models are very difficult to make money. Even its competitors can make money, but it can't make money. For example, if it is to make this API service for the model, everyone will find that Dbc is better. For the code, everyone will use Cloudy. Then it does this communication, the ability to use the model,這個解免來上來以後 幾乎都免費的 It's free, and it's free to use. But what's the advantage of Jimny? Google has a free service for you through Jimny's API. It's a free service that can be achieved by searching for your own cloud service. It's free, but it can be used to search for your own cloud service. And the same goes for Meta. Meta, even if it's an AI, it doesn't need money. It's open source, it's free, it doesn't need money. But it can use its own AI to connect to its own users. Through the time of user interaction, the environment changes. In other words, in all its business models, cloud services, manufacturers make money. Google can do that. 代表OpenAI不行然后通过输送通用的API赚钱Deepseq和Ali把Ali千文也把他给干死了Ali千文也是这样的API几乎不要紧或者是极度便宜但人家都愿服务赚钱做电商赚钱然后他如果想做消费品的客户那块你看Meta也在这Meta就有巨大的用户量他把AI牵到自己的领域里面就是你想做这种社交应用啊或者什么的Meta也很在你前面 Cloud is the most easily destroyed fruit in the field of code and public development. So I can't imagine how OpenAI will break through. So I think OpenAI is really very dangerous. 从头到尾讲的话可能最想找到什么印证点的确实是印证这么一个迹象从现在来看的话就是上奥特曼基本上看到自己在演到自己非凡的商业才华如果要是一个正常的场面分析就是按照大家各自的优势比较的话他秤不耽误他就是就在每一点他很秤非常秤他刚觉得自己在这一年大幅领先就发现突然不知道什么地方冒过来打他一棒子 所以他的优势基本上已经被围攻了他在各个点上面都被竞争内容给卡住了我觉得其中开源的像DeepThick和千万的冲击是最大的因为DeepThick和千万冲击他不仅仅是把市场竞争的冲击行为拿出来而且真正把路给断掉了