Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
today
Let’s continue to talk about the dilemma of enlightenment in China.
In the previous video
We discussed
There is a difference between the understanding of enlightenment between China and the West
Chinese Enlightenment
It seems that there is always an inspiration.
and the inspired
Teachers and students
Subject and Object
Enlightenment in this sense
It's a guardian from top to bottom.
Enlightenment for the Guardian
This is exactly contrary to the original spirit of the Enlightenment.
This is clearly reflected in the 20th century
China's largest enlightenment movement
That is, during the May Fourth Movement
We mentioned
Novels that describe the awakening of thought in that era
Especially when it comes to relationships between men and women
There is a common pattern of teacher-student love
The male protagonists are basically scholars and intellectuals.
They attract women mainly through knowledge and talent
The heroines are all very beautiful, gentle,
Pure and clear
They also have some culture and pursuits
But encountered difficulties
So in love
Mainly the object of enlightenment and education by men
We mainly discussed Yang Mo's "Song of Youth"
Pointed out the heroine
Although it seems to have happened three times
Progressive growth
But in fact, every time I grow and awaken
All depend on the emergence of a new male mentor
She is always in a dependent position in her mind.
This has not developed or changed.
This kind of love between men and women based on enlightenment
Of course, it is also a microcosm of the relationship between intellectuals and the masses.
However, it should be noted that
Although that era
Many novels have this pattern.
But their thought levels are actually different
Compared to "Song of Youth"
The constant repetition of this relationship of saving and being saved
Mao Dun's "Creation" and Lu Xun's "Sorrows of Death"
To varying degrees, it reveals
The Enlightenment's own confusion, Mao Dun and failure
Today's video
We have two other novels
Explore the deep logic of this pseudo-spiritual communication
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have any
Topics you want to discuss and consult with me
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
Let’s first look at Mao Dun’s “Creation”
Unlike "Song of Youth", which focuses on the growth of the heroine
The difference is
"Creation" is the male protagonist Jun Shi
A series of stream of consciousness while lying in bed
The protagonist Junshi
It is a country that has accepted many Western ideas.
Young people who open their eyes to the world
At the age of 20
Death of father
And left him a rich legacy
This also makes his life freer.
He was looking for an ideal woman.
Be a life partner
But after five or six years
He still hasn't found it
A friend asked him
What is ideal?
Junshi said: My so-called ideal
It's her temperament and opinions.
Same as me in every way
Then Junshi said:
Most new women have extreme problems
For example, liberation of action is necessary
But don't be too frivolous
Be open-minded
But we cannot ignore the responsibilities of being a wife and mother in the family.
The old traditional ideas are naturally not acceptable.
But you can’t be so new that you don’t know what to say
My friend said
Then you can find a foreign woman
Junshi denied this path again
He said: There is no Chinese nationality
Foreign women who don't have the 5,000-year-old Chinese heritage
Not my ideal wife.
To sum up
I want a brand new
But not dangerous
So, Junshi finally realized
What I want to find is a piece of chaotic uncut jade.
To carve it out by yourself
Since society has not prepared an ideal wife for me
I'll create one myself
We say
Junshi obviously doesn't think he is that kind of person.
Conservative traditional men
He considers himself civilized, progressive and modern
What I need is a woman of a new era
But what he really expects is still a gentle, well-behaved
People who can grow according to his plan
Even if this woman is a little bold,
Progressive and rebellious temperament
But that's just for men
Bring a little freshness,
A condiment for excitement and sense of accomplishment
Don't take it seriously
Can't really surpass men
In fact, Junshi’s expectations of women
It is still very traditional
Traditional Chinese Culture
Although it is emphasized that women should abide by the three obediences and four virtues
But there are also some female images
Rebellious and bold
for example
Women in the Yuan Dynasty Operas "The Injustice of Dou E" and "The Peony Pavilion"
More bold and proactive than men
Even against fate
But their boldness
are ultimately incorporated into a larger moral order,
Family ethics or male desire
To be recycled
For example
Traditional Chinese literati have always had an aesthetic taste for talented women.
These talented women can recite poems, paint, and talk about everything.
in this case
Men can also allow their wit and humor
Surpass Yourself
But this is not based on a
Respect for the universal structure of personality
Women still need to know the general situation after all
This is Junshi's ideal
Very twisted and contorted reasons
Junshi finally found the unpolished gem it imagined
Just Xianxian
There is not much culture
But has good learning ability
In just two years
She finished reading the list of books specified by Junshi
General knowledge of natural sciences, history, literature, and philosophy
Have a certain understanding
Xianxian didn't like politics at first
Politics as a dirty thing
Junshi believes
A woman who doesn't understand politics is by no means perfect
So he had to read various political theories
He also comments on current events in the country every day and corrects them.
After three months of education
He finally led Xianxian to the path of politics
So, when they go out to play together
In the ranks of those high-ranking Chinese
Xianxian showed her elegant manners.
Educated conversation, vast knowledge
This makes Junshi feel quite proud.
Feeling that my creation has achieved results
Although the author did not specifically introduce
What is Xianxian's conversation and talent like?
But we can imagine
Xianxian's so-called vast knowledge
Educated Conversation
It should also be a performance.
Because of her learning process
It seems that it was only unilaterally indoctrinated by Junshi
She had little opportunity to think freely.
Association and expression
No experience in connecting with yourself
This reminds me of many people I have met in real life.
They seem knowledgeable.
But I don’t have my own systematic view.
Just mechanically repeating some theories
Unable to freely disassemble and connect concepts
As
What we mentioned in this video on December 1st
Only when one first experiences a situation that arouses a great number of feelings
And the stage of absorbing a lot of knowledge
Only then can we talk about identification
Only then can we build a systematic and rigorous thinking ability
This state of absorbing a large amount of knowledge
Need a person to feel his or her own subjectivity
Recognized and trusted
When the Enlightenment is only in accordance with their own ideals
To shape a person
So
This can only cultivate something superficial and superficial
This talent is very performative
Especially in the public sphere
It is easy to be mistaken for a profound thought.
certainly
Junshi also does not have the ability to appreciate independent personality
His so-called modern and free
It's just a fashionable embellishment.
Once this "modern woman" is unwilling to be shaped by him
He will be frustrated, lost and alienated
Soon, Junshi discovered this
He felt
The original Xianxian had the Taoist idea of ​​detachment from the world.
So he painstakingly persuaded Xianxian to read the theory of evolution.
Materialism and Nietzsche's Books
Although Junshi does not agree with materialism
But in order to cure Xianxian's nihilism
The drastic medicine of materialism must be used
on the other hand
Junshi feels that Xianxian is too shy
This made him feel bored in bed.
So he induced Xianxian to be proactive and enthusiastic
As a result, Xianxian became stronger than his desire
at last
Xianxian likes going out to socialize more and more
I listened to him more and more impatiently.
He felt that Xianxian was indeed easily influenced by the outside world.
This is helpful for him to create
But it also means
Xianxian is also susceptible to Miss Li
Or other ideological induction
He found that he only thought he had created success
All the efforts made in the past few years have been in vain.
This made Junshi feel desperate, distressed and hurt.
The story ends with Xianxian leaving home
No longer willing to wait for Junshi to end
This novel by Mao Dun
Successfully demonstrated the anxiety and loss of an enlightened person:
When the result of enlightenment is that you lose your students
Rejected by students
So where is the fulcrum of self-existence?
The author seems to have intended to express
Once the revolution started
It's unstoppable
It seems like she is singing praises of the revolution from the perspective of the heroine.
But we can't see
Where does the heroine grow and awaken?
She just left Junshi
No longer worship Junshi
But it may just be guided by others.
Just like the heroine of "Song of Youth"
on the other hand
The author's conceit about the enlightenment
There is no explicit criticism
He just used stream of consciousness writing
Let us follow Junshi's subjective world
Feel his change from arrogance to loss bit by bit
The language is regretful
If you have to say
He also only showed his enlightenment
A kind of empathy for frustrated narcissism
There is no clear reflection on the ideological level
This made him think
There is a clear difference between this and Lu Xun's "Sorrows of Death"
"The Death of a Poet" is a shorter novel
It is not the pride of a successful enlightener
But the reflection of a failed enlightener
It is the confession of the hero
The whole novel is about Junsheng living in a dilapidated hut.
Recalling the love with Zijun
And how this relationship broke down
This eventually led to Zijun's death
Their story starts out very May Fourth
Junsheng is a new cultural youth
Pursuing freedom and opposing old ethics
Encourage Zijun to escape from her authoritarian family and be herself
With the support of Junsheng
Zijun breaks away from her old family
Of course it was sweet at the beginning
They talked about family despotism and gender equality
On Tagore and Shelley
Zijun listened to Junsheng's talk tenderly
So the two fell in love and lived together
Trying to live a new life of free love
But soon the problem came
They don’t have a stable income
Junsheng has to write the manuscript alone
Zijun became a busy person who cooked, washed dishes,
Housewife taking care of chickens and puppies
The two of them communicated less and less
More and more quarrels
The flame of love
Slowly extinguished by the trivialities of life
He began to feel that Zijun was no longer independent
No time to read and study
I even began to hate her dependence, shallowness and triviality.
I think Zijun is getting fatter.
He felt that he had paid too much for him.
If you are alone
Life is not a problem
Finally, Junsheng finally said that sentence:
"I don't love you anymore
But it's better for you
You can do things without worries."
He thought he was just expressing his sincerity.
I thought Zijun would be free because of this.
But Zijun looked as pale as death.
She left quietly
Returned to his tyrannical father and eventually died
The end of the novel
The sound returned to the place where they met.
A cold, shabby house
He began his confession
He thought he was telling the truth.
Zijun can move forward without any worries.
But it destroyed Zijun
He found that he
Just immersed in the identity of the Enlightenment
He did not establish a deep connection with Zijun
But just according to his preset ideal
Encourage Zijun to rebel against her family and escape from patriarchy
Building a so-called new life
However, when the pressure of reality comes
Zijun from the ideal "new woman"
Gradually became a busy housework, tired face
When I became a petty, complaining woman
Junsheng lost interest in her.
He began to find fault with Zijun
I think she has become ignorant.
I'll only feel sad for the puppy
Worrying about daily necessities
He attributed all this to Zijun's immaturity.
Rather than being in the early stages of a relationship
It projects a false ideal image.
Finally, when he doesn't love
He still chooses to use independence and freedom
To excuse yourself
I hope Zijun can be brave again
Just like she left her original family
Leave Him
This is still an excuse to shirk responsibility:
He wants to get rid of the burden of this relationship
I also want to maintain my superiority as an enlightener.
Of course we can't say
A person cannot change his mind in love
Or once we're together
You must love each other forever
Junsheng's problem is not that he no longer loves and wants to leave
It's the way he built this relationship.
And the way he left was fraught with problems.
His relationship with Zijun
At the beginning, it was a top-down "enlightenment relationship"
He keeps telling and teaching
Zijun kept listening and nodding.
He's not dating a real person.
Rather
In love with your ideal "new age woman"
He fell in love
It was Zijun who was inspired and awakened by him.
When entering real life
When Zijun went from being an enlightened
Becoming a busy woman
Junsheng immediately found that she was no longer cute
Even began to dislike her "lack of knowledge"
But these lives
It was he who encouraged Zijun to join him.
He didn't consider
At that time, the political and economic
In a highly unequal patriarchal society
“I am my own person”
Often does not translate into actual support networks
and ability to act
What he calls "telling the truth"
It's just that I dumped the real burden on Zijun
Overall
On the ideological level
Lu Xun's "Sorrows of Passing Away" is superior to "Song of Youth" and "Creation"
The author did not pretend
This enlightenment can automatically bring freedom
Instead, it writes about the narcissism, cowardice and escape of the Enlightenment
Encourage others to be free and independent
Of course it's good
However, a person
We should be aware of our projections and fantasies.
Be aware of your responsibilities in the relationship
Don't easily portray yourself as a savior
However, "Sorrowful Death" is only from the negative side.
Expressed reflection and repentance
He did not describe
How should a truly equal emotional relationship unfold?
It does not depict a two-way,
Dialogue-based enlightenment for mutual understanding and growth
Even Zijun's inner world
It is mainly through the perspective of Junsheng
Indirectly projected
"The Death of a Poet" is a profound deconstruction of the "Enlightenment Myth"
But it has not yet been proposed
A model that can rebuild trust and equality
Let's discuss this topic later.
That's all for today's video
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You hope and
I discuss an article or a paragraph
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
or
You want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!