[Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are live. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning to everybody. We are here. It is Monday morning and we are officially starting off the last week of November which is uh kind of crazy because we're headed into December in about seven days and it's even hard to fathom that 2025 is coming to an end but nonetheless 2025 is coming to an end. I hope everyone had a good weekend. I did not do the Sunday future show last night. I was spending some time with family. Uh also will not be doing it next week because next week is that Thanksgiving weekend. But we're here. It's going to be a bit of a light week to be honest because uh Thanksgiving th Thursday markets closed. Friday you do have a market open but it closes at 1 p.m. So the volume is going to be very light. You have a lot of people that are obviously traveling and then you have Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. So we have the next three days. Hopefully these next three days gets us out of this downtrend that we've been in. If anyone remembers last week, definitely wasn't pretty in terms of the pain that the markets took us through after the best earnings of all time on Nvidia's Q3. But still, the markets were choppy to say the least. So hopefully we can get a little bit of a uptrend this week or at least some stabilization. If anything, I think just reclaiming some of the key levels on the S&P 500, Bitcoin, etc., which tried to kind of make some levels last night. Bitcoin right now is at 86.3. had got up to 88 last night and that's when you saw futures really make a move. Future still green even though Bitcoin uh still relatively flat from where it was a couple days ago even though you know last week it did hit like 82,000. So um I think just reclaiming some of those levels would be really effective and if we can reclaim some of those levels and set a little bit up of an uptrend it would be exciting for this week. And that's what we got. We don't have any crazy earnings. We don't have any crazy catalyst. I mean, we have some headlines that we'll discuss obviously today that I'm seeing right here, but nothing nothing more for Q3. I mean, we're basically ending out, we've ended out Q3. We've ended out Q3 earnings. We do have Dell and Abberrombi and HP, Workday, Zcaler, Zoom today, some of those earnings. Uh, Clean Spark, Autodesk, but outside of that, nothing too crazy. And then starting in December, we are ending out the market and it is going to be the final six weeks from today for the market to be able to make any level of a meaningful run. S&P 500 is up about 12% year-to date. If we were to get those three backto backtoback years of 20%, we would need about an 8% move towards the uh towards the end of the year, which would be in the next six weeks. We're up 12.72% on the S&P 500. Maybe it happens, maybe it doesn't. If it does happen, it could really help a lot of our portfolios get back to some levels that it was at in October. if it doesn't and that we we at least stabilize and we don't hopefully go down because I think the biggest fear has been, you know, are we topping or is this, you know, time for the markets to continue to correct? If that doesn't happen, then I think that would be very exciting as well. All right, so let's get into it again. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you everybody for being here. Yes, please. Just not a repeat of December 2018. And I don't think there will be because we've got some Fed speak this morning. It's a little bit more uh to the dovishai than we had on Thursday. On Thursday, you had a bunch of Fed presidents come out and just say, "We do not think we're going to be cutting." And that is exemplified through rate probabilities. We're at 77.9, highest in three weeks. Highest in three weeks. This was 30% on Tuesday, last week. So, the facts that the fact that we got to jump up to 78. You got a lot of new uh reports saying signaling that Powell wants to cut and so he's just going to have to make sure he has enough votes to be able to get that cut. But uh if we do get that cut and you know hopefully the markets kind of correct from the sta from the from the downtrend and potentially stabilize and there's a lot of reasons why that we'll talk about today then maybe it could be a really strong strong end of year. Yeah. No longer a coin toss. No longer a coin toss. All right let's get into it. So we got a bunch of headlines this morning that we'll start off with and then we'll uh we'll get into some of the other big macro news that we have. Google right here. Wow. 311. I have not looked at Google the entire pre-market. There it is. 311 in the pre-market. It's up 4%. I mean, there's a bunch of different things that came out on Google over the weekend. A lot of it being praised for Gemini 3.0. You had a lot of independent tech journalists just come out and say Gemini 3.0 is the real deal, and it's really hard to deny it. Uh, you also had that report on Thursday from the information saying that Sam Alman is now becoming worried about the economic stability of OpenAI. not that he's not confident that they're going to win uh in the long term, but that he did say Google's new model could create some economic headwinds in the short term. Um, and you know, I think that's why markets are getting a little bit more excited about Google. On top of that, you have Mark Beni off, who I did not expect him to tweet this. I really didn't. I was very like just uh surprised when he put this out there, but uh CEO of Salesforce, he tweeted that he uses Chat GBT every day and now he's switching to Gemini 3. And the reason I thought this was weird is because like doesn't OpenAI pay Salesforce a ton of money. Like you would you would think to not piss off one of your largest AI customers. But he says, "Holy [ __ ] I've used Chats every day for three years. Just spent two hours on Gemini 3. I'm not going back. The leap is insane. Reasoning speed, images, video, everything is sharper and faster. It feels like the world just changed again.
>> Sundar probably pays Benny off more money than Sam Alman and maybe that had a little bit of a role there. But if he's just speaking from his heart and he's saying Gemini is just that much better. I mean, you're just seeing a lot more people get excited about Google. So there you go. Gemini 3 that is continuing to be a massive tailwind for Google. It's a really big tailwind for the broader AI trade because it's once again proving every people that proving to everybody that AI is very real and Google being able to train these models on their own proprietary TPUs and get it out there into the world and now have it have real use cases. That is something that's making Google a lot more attractive. I don't know if Google is the same riskreward that it was obviously back at 170, 190, even 220. I think Bergkshire got in around that 190 to 230 range. I mean, it's not getting super super expensive, but it's definitely not getting dirt cheap anymore. If that if that's something you're looking for, Meta is probably the one that pops up instead. So, I wonder how long the market, you know, is able to continue giving it a run and giving it a premium. It definitely feels like end of year close by 300 or close over 300 is very possible to get up to 350. You got some 415 analyst targets today. I mean, Wed Bush has 400. If that thing does get into the 350s, it would be quite incredible. It would be more than a double in less than four months. And that's why it's also very exciting for Google. Uh Novo and Oscar. So we got some news on those two. Oscar unfortunately is down or sorry Novo is down 10% after failed Alzheimer trials results. Novanordis reported failed results for his Alzheimer's drug trial saying it did not meet its main goal. The study tested semiglutide the same ingredient used in ompic and begoi to see if it could slow Alzheimer progression. Biomarkers improved in two separate trials but the improvement did not translate into any delay in disease progression. Unfortunately, Novo is getting hit right there. And Novo was actually making a bit of a run with the Eli Liy partnership they had last week. The problem is the other parts of their drug pipeline have not been meaningfully uh secured or at least shown to the market that there's a catalyst right there. You can see 9.85% on Novo and that's why that one is getting hit. Now again, like Alzheimer's is a really hard thing to even get any progress to resolve. So the fact that Novo is trying for this is so important. It's just in the market, you know, if capital is going to companies that they think can actually resolve the issue and the issue doesn't get resolved even in the short term. You know, maybe long term Novo figures it out, you're going to see you're going to see a move to the downside. And that's what we're seeing right here on Novo. That's down 10%. On the opposite side of the healthcare industry, Oscar is up 20. Wow. It was up 10% last time I checked. Now it's up 20%. All right. So Oscar is up 20%. The reason Oscar is up 20% is because you live with the ACA subsidies and you die with the ACA subsidies. So based on what Politico is reporting today, and maybe we're going to see an executive order from Trump on this, there was some rumors that he was going to be doing an executive order. Uh Trump is preparing to roll out a new ACA framework per Politico, including a two-year extension of Obamacare subsidies, aka ACA subsidies, that expire next month. The plan would add income gaps on eligibility of roughly 700% of the f federal poverty line and introduce minimum premium payments. It also calls for Congress to fund cost sharing reductions and offers an an option for enrolles to take part of their tax credit into a savings account if they switch to a lower premium plan. Kind of going into Trump's motto of letting the people choose their healthcare versus letting the institutions kind of choose it for him. He's really been on this idea that independence should be a sort of key part of the healthcare framework and it looks like that's what his plan will be trying to add. Political reporting that the White House is aiming to get ahead of the expected premium spikes as both parties debate how to handle the subsidy deadline. The other reason this is really important is because if the Democrats somehow agree to this and they are on board with this type of subsidy extension um we might not have a shutdown in January. So I do not understand all the internal nuances of healthcare. I'm sure there's things with this proposal from Trump that are probably bad for uh the Democrat's perspective, probably not even the best for the Republicans perspective, but if it's enough of bad on both sides and somewhat good on both sides, maybe it's enough of an agreement to get them to not shut down the government in January. So, this really is a very important uh political framework that he's putting out there and hopefully there's some support in Congress around it. But obviously a company like Oscar is going to make a move because if you have an extension of those subsidies, that's where Oscar is going to really like it. 20.7% 13 to 1630 in the pre-market. Again, this stock went from 22 to 13 because of the pain of not knowing what's going to happen with the subsidy. It could easily run back up if there's more clarity. UNH is up 2.29%. Pretty much all of the um healthcare names are getting a bid right here. Elevants right there, that's also up 3.3%. and Oscar Gan up 20%, UNH up 2.29. So, we're going to see how that one ends up playing out, but it is nice to at least get some progress on that. And, you know, it follows and you know, maybe I don't know if this is necessarily capitulation by Trump. One could argue that it's just him recognizing that there has to be some way for uh the Democrats or Republicans to agree on this, which is why he's proposing this type of a framework. But it comes after a relatively friendly meeting with Mr. Zoron Mani. I think the story over the weekend was how um nice Trump and Mani were to each other, which I don't think a lot of people expected. Um but I mean, this is a video that I think highlights exactly how Trump and Manni acted with each other. So, as you can see right here, when the gate closes, there's uh tough tough words and Twitter fingers being thrown at each other. And then when the gate opens, no, they're they're chill. They're really nice. This is exactly what it felt like. And the reason it felt like that moment Trump where where Mumani is asked about, hey, Trump, you know, or Manny, hey, you said he's Trump's a fascist. Like, what do you say about that? And Trump's like, don't worry about it. You can just say yes. You don't even have to explain yourself. I mean, this was surreal seeing this last week.
>> A fascist. Um, and your answer was, both President Trump and I have been clear about our positions and our views. Are you affirming that you think President Trump is a fascist?
>> I've spoken about
>> That's okay. You can just say yes. Okay.
>> It's easier. It's easier than explaining it.
>> Wanted to ask.
>> Okay. Let me know if the mic is good. You guys are saying the mic was bad. Let me know if the mic is good. But that was kind of crazy. Just seeing that happen on Friday was actually crazy. And I I don't know. Maybe there is a little bit of a uh maybe there is a little bit of a a sort of populist agenda that both of them have together and that populist agenda is creating the level of excitement that they both had um kind of on on that meeting together. I mean again you you thought there would be some gotcha moments. You thought there would be moments where they both kind of go back and forth with each other. We saw what Trump did with Zalinsky back uh back back in February when he was at the Oval Office. I kind of thought it would be something like that and Trump just, you know, crying that he's a communist and Mum Dandi saying that Trump's a fascist both to each other's faces and going back and forth, but it was the opposite. It was like, "No, no, no. We both want to focus on affordability for New Yorkers." They both had some really good answers. And then Trump when he was going on his way to Mara Lago on Saturday, they continued to ask him about it and he said, "No, he likes Mani. He'll only send the National Guard to New York if Mani needs it." Like it was a very amicable meeting. And so maybe we're turning a little bit of a page in terms of how the Republicans and Democrats are going to work together. And I think Trump probably understands, hey, the affordability stuff needs to get fixed. Um New York, he was he wasn't like super close to winning it in 2024, but there was a lot better chance uh from 2020. So he, you know, he does know that there are more people in New York that do care about him. And part of the reason they voted for him was because of the affordability crisis. And number three, he he Trump probably knows they can't survive another shutdown. If we get another shutdown, I mean, there's a world where the midterms go the opposite direction for the Republicans. So, maybe Trump is trying to get ahead of that and start working with the Democrats and at least getting on their good side in some capacity so that we don't have to have another shutdown in January, which obviously would be beneficial for for the entire country. But that is something that we saw and obviously was very surreal just seeing them get along with each other. But hopefully for the sake of the country, it's going to be a good thing going into the end of the year and throughout Mundan's term. Nvidia right there. That's a.37% getting a little bit of a red candle in the pre-market. Uh yes, as Chris says, Trump also owns a lot of real estate in New York City. He probably wants to make sure he's on good terms with the guy who's potentially going to be controlling a lot of the property valuations in New York. Um okay, so let's talk about um Nvidia. So I mean last week Nvidia had one of the best earnings ever. I've done a lot of thinking over the weekend to try to understand a lot more about what's going on with Nvidia. I have concluded I think the sell off on Nvidia is really stupid and I think if we see a more substantial selloff once again into that I mean we got 172 for a little bit last week. If we get anywhere near 175 the low 170s again which I don't think we will given some of the price action but then again that could happen any second if the market flips. I think Nvidia is a buy. I didn't buy any Nvidia last week. I was trying to really collect my thoughts on like, hey, is this, you know, a simple thing to buy? Is there something I'm overlooking? And it really like the only argument that's there is the GPU depreciation stuff, which by the way, the guy who started that argument, Michael Bur had a announcement yesterday that we'll talk about. And it doesn't feel like that announcement is enough to be super super scared of what's going on with Nvidia. I mean, if you believe in Gemini 3.0, know if you believe in Whimo, you believe in FSD, you believe in humanoid robotics, you believe in that overall thesis that is there, it's just very very very hard to be like, I'm going to fade Nvidia. And I think we're going to be laughing about this a year or two years from now with Nvidia closer to a 7 to8 trillion dollar market cap. Bank of America, by the way, reiterated their buy target at 275. And their argument was just like people should not be as concerned as they are. Much of the market concern is centered on working capital trends, but Bank of America said worries about rising receivables inventories are misplaced. They wrote, "It's not the absolute receivable number. It's them compared to sales, noting that day sales outstanding declined to 53 days versus 54 days." On inventories, which a lot of people have been concerned about, Bank of America explained that Nvidia scale and shipments of more complex systems, including the Blackwell, GB200, and GB300 MBL72 racks. That quote, "We would be more worried if Nvidia inventory wasn't growing fast given the six-month deployment cycle for Blackwell class platforms." aka they're saying inventory is going up because demand is still outstripping supply and they need to be able to backs stop that inventory in order to catch up with that supply. Nvidia remains compelling at 24* 18x 20 calendar year 226 or 27 PE versus 40% sales in EPS growth urging investors to ignore quarterly noise. I don't know. I I I mean I obviously there's an argument that you know the Google TPUs are out there, Amazon is their training tips. actually watched a couple videos this weekend just trying to understand more about the the custom AS6 that some of these other hyperscalers are deploying and those are real things they will probably put some margin pressure on Nvidia eventually but based on the data we're getting I mean and based on the gross margin expansion that Nvidia guided for it is very very very hard to be super scared about what's going on with Nvidia and again that 450 billion uptick in the reversal that we had in the span of basically two hours uh that felt like a lot of people started to get concerned about inventories or accounts receivables or GPUs depreciation or something that just made the market a bit more upset and then that caused the sort of systemic selling that we saw along with the Fed speak that was a bit more hawkish. If those concerns aren't real, I mean again, Nvidia doesn't have to shoot up to 10 trillion tomorrow, but the idea that Nvidia has to go down to three trillion and become, you know, one of those companies that uh it stay it stayed at in terms of market cap over the past year instead of sort of sustaining the breakout even though they're growing at the level that they're growing at. I mean, what happens if Nvidia continues to guide for upwards of 35% growth next year? They're going to grow another 50 60% next quarter. It's like at some point you would also like the the market wants to put capital to use where they know that it will continue to grow and Nvidia is not slowing down the growth. So I I don't know if we get back into the low 170s. I just feel like it's it's worth taking another nibble. I didn't nibble last week, but I just couldn't find enough of a compelling reason over the weekend to be that scared of Nvidia. I really don't. and and and I think part of the reason why Google's moving and a lot of these AI names are still getting their premium even with the draw down is because Nvidia's growth I mean I ran Nebius the reason all these are up in the pre-market is also because of the fact that we have new data center expansion we got a couple headlines on that that we'll talk about and a lot of those data center I mean all those data centers are either going to have Nvidia and AMD chips and most of them are picking Nvidia right now as they need the best quality also Ruben Jensen said there's 20,000 people working around the clock to get Vera Rubin ready to ship I mean if we see a massive upgrade cycle again on Reuben. I mean, it reminds me of iPhone early days going from iPhone 5 to 6 to 7 to 8. Like, those were the upgrades you needed to make because they were just so useful. And then, you know, iPhone 16 to 17 is whatever. Right now, we are still at iPhone 4 to 5, not iPhone 16 to 17 on these GPUs. And if that continues to be the life cycle for them, I think it's going to be very exciting. This was uh David Freriededberg on the Olden podcast this weekend explaining why the GPU argument by Michael Bur was not necessarily correct. And I actually think Michael Bur's got this wrong. And so what Michael Bur is saying is that all of these hyperscalers have extended their depreciation schedule or the useful life of their data centers by roughly 2x which cuts the operating costs in half when they report it in earnings. And so it's making their earnings inflate. So he's claiming they're cooking the books. Google first made this change in Q1 of 21 where they said the servers are now going from 3 to four years. The chart shows the combination of servers and networking equipment. Separately in 2021, Google took networking equipment from three to five years and then in 2023 they took it from five to six years. And so this is a result of this effort where they went in and did an analysis. So what happened? What happened in the data centers is that the data centers transitioned from being primarily data storage and data transfer systems where you would use hard drives and RAM and memory to store data and then transmit it back out to being data processing centers because of the AI boom. So as AI became more important in the data center, more of the dollars that are going into data centers were allocated towards chips from data storage which initially was hard drives. And then suddenly when you put these processors in to process the data to do AI, that's the majority of the spend and the majority of the energy is going towards the processors. I made some calls and I checked around with some other friends and everyone says the same thing that these seven and 8-year-old TPUs and GPUs that are sitting in the data centers are still being used and they're being used at 100% utilization. So that actually justifies and validates the depreciation schedule being much longer versus shorter. And I think that's why uh you have some people calling BS on this argument about depreciation. It's not that it's an argument that shouldn't be explored. But you know, and Jensen said it on the call, if you have A6 or not A6, uh the A100 chips that Nvidia shipped six years ago that are still being utilized in these data centers, then the depreciation schedule on them is not understated to the fact that it would overstate the earnings, which means Bur, you know, might not have this argument correct. This other headline, by the way, is why Google's pumping in the premarket. NATO and Google Cloud signed a multi-million dollar deal for AI enabled sovereign cloud. Jensen's been talking about a long time for this sovereign AI to continue becoming a bigger deal. Sovereign AI is not only going to need independent countries and sovereign nations uh that have their own GPUs that have their own data centers, but they're also going to need their own cloud computing. And so Google winning a multi-million exact number, but multi-million dollar deal. Bitcoin by the way going right below 86,000 uh for NATO. Obviously that is an important deal and that deal probably will expand as NATO's use cases expand and as those use cases expand you know they will probably buy more cloud compute from Google. So Google right there 312 that's up 4.2% in the pre-market as that one continues to go green. The big announcement that Mike Bur Michael Bur uh was going to make um it's out. It is officially a Substack. He is joining Substack. So that is it. That's the big November 25th announcement that he's been teasing. It's $380 a year to subscribe to his Substack. So this is uh this is what this is what he's been teasing. It it is it is kind of funny that he he went through all of this just to launch a Substack, which look, I like I'm in the content creation game. I I I love the ability to express ideas and put it out there and hopefully create compelling stories and interesting thoughts and ideas. It's just I don't know. He went through a lot of teasing to just start a Substack. Like you thought this guy was going to like expose something crazy about Nvidia on November 25th. It's like no, it's a it's a Substack, which is fine. Maybe he doesn't want to uh manage money anymore. you know, maybe it's been what, 17 years and he's tired of managing capital, a little bit more than that, almost two decades, 20 years, and he wants to, you know, do something different. Um, and I guess, you know, from his perspective, a Substack is the the next chapter of his life, which is fine, but it definitely definitely did not match the expectations of what people thought was going to be some massive announcement. Although, I did think it was going to be like a book or a blog. It ended up being a blog. So, that's what you got. that you have. Maybe he wasn't in Nvidia, so he wanted a dip before his entry. Yeah, maybe. I mean, I I think his substack is gonna be dedicated towards essentially bare cases for AI over the next couple years. I think that's going to be how he grows and tries to monetize. Um, it always does surprise me when these like Michael Bur should be worth like like a couple hundred million dollars if not more, maybe a hundred million if we're going to maybe 50 million at the very lowest. Like, so I mean, launching a Substack for 380 bucks a year, first of all, how did you even come up with that number 380? How do you know your research is worth $380? Second of all, it's like the dude's worth a lot of money already. Like, does he really is he really trying to make money off the sub? You know, it's like it's just a weird pivot to go from managing capital. Also, by the way, if you're so convicted on your thesis on AI being a bubble, wouldn't you want to manage a lot of money and go short and then make a ton of money? Like, isn't that the whole like, do you really have that much conviction if you're not willing to use client capital and go short like you did in 2008? Because that's how he made his name, right? He used client capital and those clients didn't even want him to use their capital, but he had full discretion over it. And he went short and he ended up being right. So, I don't know. It's it's it's it's a different type of pivot, but I guess that's what he is he's now doing. So, that's the update from Mr. Michael Bur. Here is Evercore ISI. This is Julian Emanuel. Uh he still believes the S&P 500 is going to continue to remain strong. You got a lot of updates this morning with some new S&P 500 targets as we get into December. Mike Wilson continues to say 7,800 is what we should get. Here is Evercore ISI on where he thinks the broader market should be going. more correlated with periods of volatility and then lack thereof uh when Bitcoin started rallying and you know looking at it it really has mirrored that particularly again given the fact that Washington has become much more friendly towards cryptocurrencies but from our point of view it is a more volatile asset it's going to have its ups and downs and we'll get through this again
>> although I some of those the blue chip stocks are down more than I Disney Disney's backbone close to hundred uh again. So there are stocks that or assets that get cut in half that are not crypto.
>> Oh no, of course. But that's the nature of the stock market and you know a lot of the discomfort that investors have right now is this idea of really what's record concentration. 40% of the S&P 500 is 10 names. But again, part of if you look at the long-term history of investing, the indexes tend to be driven by a handful of stocks and then there are others that do less well.
>> So, there is some fear and loathing out there. You point out what what what is the S&P down though at this point.
>> It's really only a shade over 5%. uh but what we've seen in the markets really would indicate to your point a moment ago that uh the concerns around crypto and and credit in general have really permeated. Uh and I would say this two observations. Number one, when people continue to talk about an AI bubble, it's like the watch pot that never boils. We want to hear more talk about the AI bubble.
>> Well, we hear it every day today. It's the bonds that the the hyperscalers are have to float.
>> So, so that's the other thing when equity people start talking about credit uh and we've been getting questions non-stop about credit default swaps and if you look at the broader credit market, it still is telling you that the economy is very solid. So you have a lot of these analysts coming out and just saying, "Hey, you know, this AI bubble talk, it's like important to listen to it, but it is not the defining factor of what's going on in the economy." Take a look at Bloomberg's update with ETFs. Last week, $8 billion a day of net inflows continue to come in. Vanguard was three billion of the eight billion a day, doubling their normal take, now 350 billion year to date. VO which again is just the broader market 120 billion on the year. So in the midst of all of the selling last week all of the whether it was algorithmic selling retail panic selling systematic selling institutions were buying there is another chart right here uh that continues to show that the tootses are yeah take a look at this I mean last week we saw the cash levels of uh fund managers as per the bank of America survey it's now down again it went from 3.8 8 to 3.7 and a 0.1% decrease uh is substantial when you're talking about hundreds of billions of dollars that Bank of America fund managers uh are surveying for and that money obviously went into the market if that cash supply did go down or at least it potentially went into the markets could have went into crypto derivatives but the point is it was deployed in in a meaningful way. So from that perspective, you are seeing people that took advantage of the dip last week. And I think the reason a lot of people took advantage of the dip last week is because it it just did not feel like the market needs to sell off in the way that it was selling off. Now a 5% correction, again, that's very healthy and normal. And although individual stocks are down 30 to 40%, that that definitely sucks, but it doesn't mean that this is an entirely uh new setup for a bare market going into 2026. And that's what Mike Wilson from Morgan Stanley says. He says, "The current stock market pressure is a tactical correction caused by Fed liquidity jitters, not fundamental deterioration. The damage under the surface suggests the correction is nearing its end. Wilson remains highly bullish, expecting the Fed to cut rates and forecasting 17% EPS growth in 2026. Again, if we get these rate cuts, at the end of the day, money is going to have to find an asset to go into if it's not going to want to stay on the sidelines and you have plenty of money that's on the sideline." He also says you should use this weakness as a chance to buy. 7,800 is about 18% from here from now until the end of 2026. I know Bitcoin has kind of been leading this riskoff rally potentially for these systematic algorithmic concerns. There's been a lot of work over the weekend as well decoding what happened with Binance, which was one of the exchanges that people are saying is the reason why we have this entire glitch in the crypto ecosystem. If that ends up resolving itself, I mean, you just might see a lot more momentum going into the end of the year. Here's fund strats Mark Newton, and here's his argument for what to expect towards the end of November. Everybody, uh, look, I think it's less about the day-to-day volatility and more about the fact that we've seen a meaningful divergence between technology and the rest of the market. And that started, you know, right around July. So tech had gone straight higher whereas the rest of the market had largely gone sideways and not participated. So you know when you look at the S&P it's a little bit of a mirage because you see the market going straight up but but obviously that's changed in the last few weeks. We've had one of the worst Novembers now since 2008. Uh we're down about 2% but obviously that followed a much more resilient August, September and October of this year until the end of October. As to what's to come, you know, my thinking is it's going to be a little choppier. Uh it's certainly an unorthodox uh time for markets to be going down down or and or sideways, but you know, a lot of it is about lining up, you know, the expectations of when the next Fed cut is. They say the market hates uncertainty. That's true with regards to, you know, whether or not we're going to cut or not. And I think Williams helped things out last Friday. Uh you know, the percentage chance of the market,
>> you know, cutting now was double than what it was earlier last week. So markets are, you know, you know, they're certainly helpful, you know, when when that kind of thing happens and and start to stabilize and move higher. I I don't it's tough for me to say the lows are are in per se. I think we probably could hit 6,400, but I think the maximum is probably about 7,000 now between now and the end of the year. So, I'm not expecting although I do see a bounce happening and likely starting this week, uh, you know, it's tough for me to say it's going to be off to the races until we start to see more evidence of more and more sectors starting to participate in this rally and not just technology.
>> You could have completely divergent opinions from Tom Lee, could you not?
>> Yeah. Look, we have our own methodology, our own time frame for looking at markets,
>> but he expected choppiness early and and then some good performance into the end of the year.
>> Yeah. Both of us were positive this year. I I rate technical analysis. Obviously, my target was 6650. We're largely in line. Uh you know, we're we're talking with one another as we head towards end of year as to what next year has in store. Obviously, it's a midterm election year. Things tend to get a little choppier. Specifically, we've had two backto-back years of over 20%. Now, this year is probably also going to be 15 to 20% gains. So, you know, it's right to have consolidation. That doesn't mean, you know, the longer term bull market's over. It doesn't mean we're going into a bare market or you know the AI trend.
>> So you're at 6650 still for for the end of the year.
>> Yeah. I I try not to to change that on a week- toeek basis.
>> 7,000 I think isn't he or where is he?
>> Yeah. Yeah. He was right around my level. I think he raised it a few months ago to right around seven. We got to seven. Uh you know it's difficult to you know nickpick on on levels. It's more just looking at the market as a whole. what's happening with interest rates and the dollar and and equity. You know, we there's only about half of all stocks that are above their 50-day moving average with regard and that's that's troublesome. Um that happened also this time last year and it also happened back in 2021. And so we need to see evidence of financials starting to participate, industrials, uh, discretionary, uh, you know,
>> so you can tell Mark Newton is obviously thinking it's still going to be choppy and sort of the enthusiasm of those high price targets towards the end of the year. Obviously, Bitcoin 200,000, S&P 7500. I mean, that might not happen. It's just not going to easily take place if you've got the type of headwinds that you're seeing in regards to the choppiness of the market. Again, fundamentally, and this is what kind of the theme has been all morning as we've been looking at to some of these equity analysts. Fundamentally, it's not really um a deteriorating story. The story seems to be more just, you know, you know what I thought also happened last week, I think exhaustion of the AI trade was taking place last week. And as a result of that exhaustion, you just had markets kind of take their profits and sell off. And obviously the Fed talk with the with the lack of rate cuts was a big deal. But that exhaustion will eventually turn into money that wants to find a place to go to work. And when you have Meta trading at 19 times earnings, I mean, that might be an easy place for the market to get excited for. So, I think time will tell. Hopefully, this week is a bit of a stabilizing week, even if we don't have a ton of volume. Last week, we did have a lot of options expire as well, which made things a bit wonky. So, that's what we're going to have to look at going into this week. Uh, grabs up 3% in the pre-markets. Main update on this for those that have been following the saga. It looks like Goto is officially getting rid of their current CEO. Remember the current CEO? This is the guy that SoftBank wanted to get rid of. Why did SoftBank want to get rid of him? Because they want Grab to acquire Goto. Soft Bank has a stake in GoTo and Grab. They've been wanting this merger for the past couple years now. Uh it hasn't happened. We are getting the closest we've ever been to making this happen. And in order to make it happen, you had to get rid of the current CEO who was um like basically opposing the takeover. And it looks like he's gone now. So it looks like you're going to have a new CEO uh for the tech conglomerate for GoTo. His name is Patrick Cow as its new chief executive officer effective immediately. And this happened late last night, early this morning. So if that's the case and the board including institutional investors got rid of the old CEO for the pure reason of making sure a merger between Grab and Goto could become more likely. It's not guaranteed that it's going to happen but it looks really likely and that's what you got. Grab right there up 3.47%. Now obviously Grab is down a lot from that $6 range. So it's going to need to make some moves to kind of get back to those levels that it was at around 530 540 at least stabilizing there. But on December 17th when they have that extraordinary general shareholders meetings and you know potentially that's when the merger is announced. I mean that is a date to keep your eye on because if that's the case then maybe we officially lock down that merger. Rocket Lab right there that's up 1.84%. That's green. Palunteer got all the way down to 147 last week. That's up 1.5%. Bit mine's up 3.65%. We did get an update from Bitmine BMR. They did buy more Ethereum. They now officially have 3% of the total Ethereum network, 3.62 million tokens is what they have and they continue to buy. They continue to buy. Tom Lee said, "Bit has now acquired 3% of the Ethereum network. In the past week, Bitmine acquired 69,822 tokens. The made in America validator network will be the best-in-class solution offering secure staking and deployed early next year. The continued decline in crypto prices in the past week reflects the impaired illiquidity since October 10th as well as price technicals which remain weak. A few weeks ago, we noted the likely downside for ETH prices would be around 200 and ETH prices are basically there. This implies asymmetric risks were born as the downside is 5 to 7% while the upside is a super cycle ahead for Ethereum. Yeah, they should have bought 69,420. That would have made it better. Um, that that would have been Tom basically having some fun in the midst of this blood bath. But 3.63 63 million ETH. Hopefully the crypto markets can stabilize a bit. It's been ugly for them, you know, the entire past. I mean, the fact that Bitcoin is 120 to 85 is just crazy. But nonetheless, that's what happened. And, you know, Robin Hood's actually holding up pretty well in the midst of the crypto decline. 109 right there. Coinbase obviously got destroyed. Coinbase now at 245. That's up a little bit right here in the pre-market. And then obviously Micro Strategy got hit as well, 173. That's up about 1.6%. Again, Oscar is green because Trump is proposing an extension on those ACA subsidies. That's why it's up 20.55%. It is just a proposal right now. So, you might have a sell of the news as soon as the market opens or you might have a lot of people piling in to uh Oscar based on this headline. So, we're going to see when the market opens how they think of it. Google's up because they have a deal with NATO uh for cloud computing. And then obviously Gemini 3 is getting a lot a lot of praise and that's why Google's going green. That's up another 4.2. That means Google's going to open at almost 3.8 trillion in market cap if it holds this 4% move. Yeah. I mean, dude, Apple's at 4 trillion. Nvidia's at 4.3. Is it crazy to say Google gets to four by the end of the year? I mean, if we don't have a recession or anything crazy, definitely by next year, we're going to see Google at four. If we see it by the end of this year, that would be kind of crazy. Three, four trillion dollar companies in front of us. Baba is up 5%. Okay, so the headline on Baba last week was that they released a chatbt competitor for consumers and uh that ended up doing very well. There might be some other headlines that we have right here. Um, they have earnings on December 5th. No, they have earnings tomorrow. I think the headline right here is Baba's Quen chatbot exceeds 10 million downloads. Yeah, that's the headline this morning. Quen is the name of their competitor with Chad PD. 10 million downloads in the first week of public beta. Wow. Again, this stuff is not slowing down, and if it's not slowing down globally, you're just going to get a lot more excitement, which is why, again, I just think the Nvidia selloff seems rather ridiculous. Some macro stats. Uh Goldman Sachs yesterday said US pensions are modeled to buy 13 billion of US equities for month end, the first big estimate since April. So, you got US pensions that are coming in to start buying uh a bit more. You had Fed's Waller, who is being more dovish since the last Fed meeting. available data suggests not much change. Inflation not a big problem with the labor market we being as weak as it is. And he continues to affirm the argument that he cares more about the labor market than inflation. Which Fed President Williams who is seen as a proxy to JPAL also said the same last week. That's what really got the probabilities to go higher. Again, you listen to the Fed presidents, but there are certain Fed Fed presidents like JPAL for example that have a lot more um I guess sway on the market. And Williams of the New York Fed, he has a lot of sway. And so when he said, "I think we need a cut," you got the markets pretty excited to see what would happen, what would happen there. Um, and then you have this tweet by Trump in the morning. Despite the massive amount of money being made by the United States of America, hundreds of billions of dollars as a direct result of tariffs being charged to other countries, the full benefit of the tariffs have not yet been calculated and that many of the buyers of goods and products in order to avoid paying the tariffs in the short term. Their stock is up by purchasing far more inventory than they can use in order to avoid the tariff the tariff payments in the short term. That heavy inventory purchases now however wearing thin and soon tariffs will be paid on everything they apply to. These payments will be record setting and put our nation at a new and unprecedented course. we are already seeing the hottest country anywhere in the world. Basically, Trump kind of making the argument that the tariffs are going to continue resulting in uh something beneficial and we're just going to have to see, you know, how the tariffs interplay with inflation. Speaking over the weekend as well discussing the current update with inflation and what happens if the Supreme Court ends up rolling back the tariffs. So across the board, prices are starting to come down. We're having Thanksgiving week. This will be the lowest cost for a Thanksgiving dinner in four years. Turkey prices are down 16%.
>> And yet some prices are going up. Of course, we have seen prices increasing on staples like coffee, bananas, bacon. Inflation has gone up. It's at 3% now, up from 2% in April when the tariffs were were imposed.
>> No, no, no, no, no. They weren't. So, it inflation h hasn't gone up. And Kristen, the one thing that we're not going to do is do what the Biden administration did and tell the American people they don't know how they feel. Uh they are traumatized and the over the Biden inflation. We have slowed inflation and we are working very hard to bring it down. Chris, I can tell you that the Council on Economic Advisors has a study. You know, the best way to bring your inflation rate down, move from a blue state to a red state. Blue state inflation is half a percent higher. And that is because they they don't deregulate. They keep prices up. Energy is higher.
>> Just according to the consumer prices, inflation was at 2.3% back in April. In September, 3%. But let me ask you about tariffs because there's this big announcement on tariffs. Since you were last on this program, the administration announced it was rolling back tariffs on more than 200 food products. You have said recently that you think tariffs help consumers. If tariffs help consumers, why is the administration rolling them back?
>> Well, first first of all, Kristen, if you look at the data that imported goods, the inflation has actually been flat. inflation is up because of the service economy and services. So that has nothing to do with tariffs and many of the food items where the inflation is coming down. The U USR has been working very hard on trade deals and the trade deals that have been in the works for six or eight months coincide with many Latin American Central American countries where the food stuff you just named come from. Well, and banana prices are up almost 7%, coffee prices up nearly 19%. Isn't the fact that you're rolling back tariffs in admission that ultimately they do drive up prices for consumers?
>> Uh, Chris, how much does your arm weigh?
>> That I do not know.
>> Exactly. But you know how much you weigh? You get on the scale every morning. Inflation is a composite number and we look at everything. So we are trying that we try to push down the things we can control and as I said that we are working on the energy prices are down and you know every everything flows from that and I think we're going to see these other prices come down and
>> okay that was quite the analogy that was uh I actually didn't watch the interview so that was my first time hearing that but
>> there you go I mean that's that's that's way to kind of make the case for why inflation is not as bad and hopefully the Fed believes in that as well because we are really going to need that rate cut. Here we go folks. We got 10 seconds. Thank everybody for being here. It is Monday, November 24th, last week of November. 9:30 a.m. The stock market is once again open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. Google 310 all-time highs on Mr. Goos and that is green. Uh 3.54% up in the pre-market. Robin Hood, that's up 2.8%. Grabby Grab 7.24%. Again, the reason Grab is making that move is because the go-to CEO has been fired, replaced with a new CEO, which creates the framework for Grab to now officially acquire the company. That is kind of the main argument why it's making that move. And that's why you're seeing it up 7.9% as we get into the market open. Micro Strategy right there, that's up 1.2%. Oscar got an extension or got the potential for a proposal for an extension by Trump on the ACA subsidies. That is why Oscar is up 22% and that one is having a pretty good morning. Baba right there that's up 5% on Quen downloads their chatbot competing with open eye S&P 500 that's up.59%. Eli Liy continues to increase its market cap. It is now the first pharmaceutical company to reach a trillion dollars. That's up another 1% in the pre-markets. Nvidia goes green but it's relatively flat. Now it's red, moving a couple cents. Nothing too crazy. I that's up 2.8%. Bit mine that's up 4.7%. PayPal's back above six. The AMD that's up 1.6. Nebia's up 3.2. Apploven that's up 2%. SoFi back above 26. Tesla 407. Not too bad. Seeing Tesla get a little bit of a move right there. It was at 380 on Friday. Regetti's up. Oioq is up. Visa's up. Mastercard is up. D-Wave that's up 1.8 1.8%. Quantum getting a bit of a boost right here. Weeble, which had a good earnings last week. Not getting a super big move, but uh it is up about 2%. Earnings were relatively strong. All of the healthcare names are also green based on those ACA subsidies like CNC. Wow, that's up 7.6% in the pre-market. How about UNH? UNH is up 1.2%. Robin Hood back above 110. Coinbase at 246. Ethereum just went green at 2831. Micro Strategy at 172. Big Bear, this went from 850 down to 560 or 530. It's up 20 cents right here. That's up 3.8%. So Big Bear just below that $6 range. Shop five from 150 down to 140, back to 148. EOSE, they did dilute last week by about 500 million, but that stock is up 4%. Figma is down. Not sure. I mean, Figma's relatively flat. Nothing too crazy. Again, this is down a lot from its IPO when it 5x that day, which is reasonable. I mean, it probably shouldn't have been up 5x in a day. Uh, but that one now is trying to kind of generate a bit of a range to consolidate. and Novo uh their drug trials for Alzheimer's did not work or at least the trials did not show any conclusive results that they are making any progress to stop the spread of Alzheimer's that's why that stock is down 8.3% 8.3% so they had some good ompic headlines last week with Lily especially with the Trump Medicare coverage for Ozmpic but not enough progress on Ompic or on Alzheimer's Oscar right there that's up 19.3% Google continuing all-time highs 313 that's a $3.78 trillion market cap. I mean that is $210 billion away uh from from 4 trillion which is at this point a couple percentage points. Google right there 3.78 trillion. Apple's at four and then Nvidia is at 4.3 trillion. Kind of crazy. Apple right there 274. That one basically at alltime highs. 277 is the all-time high on Apple. Um, Google 313. Did it hit 314? It did not hit it yet. Nope. Just hit it as I'm saying it. 314. 4.7%. I mean, you could have go bought Google at 270 and still got in a great deal now at 313. So, quite incredible. Obviously, the Birkshar uh buy is also something that the market's probably still factoring in. Baba right there, that's up 5%. Hoodie's up 3.4. Where is Palunteer? We at 158. We're at 160. Okay, back to 160 on poucher. That's up 3.6% on the day. Broadcom should be up because those TPUs are central to Google. That's up 4.7%. You know, AMC is also a big player in building those TPUs. AMCore right there is up 2% as well. AMC was named one of Broadcom's best suppliers as of 2024. So, more TPUs definitely is bullish for a company like Amcore. Pounder right there at 160. And then Google 314. I mean, let's see if Google's going to go for 315. We'll check resistance right there, but it feels like there's a world where it wants to. Microsoft Steve said he bought Microsoft last week for the first time. I think he got it at uh around that 475 480 price. So, he is now officially in Microsoft. 315 resistance, 20,000 shares on the Googles. 20,000 shares. It looks like that's going to break through pretty quickly. There it is. 3:15 3:15 on Google, dude. I think a lot of the money in some of these names is just rotating right into Google. It's rotating right into Google. Grab right there at 521. That's up 6%. Where is Amazon? Are we still stuck at 221? 224. Okay, so all the Mac 7 actually getting a little bit of a boost right here. Even Tessy is up 5%. AMD, which had a nasty decline from 260 to 195, that's starting to recover at 209. Meta's getting at least 1% on the day. Apple's getting about 1.2%. Apple right there, 1.5 275. Um, and then Microsoft is the least of the day in terms of percentage gains, up almost 8%, but Google not stopping. Again, the cloud computing deal with NATO that they got is the headline today along with the overall industry praise for Gemini 3, which is making it seem like Google's kind of running away with this game.
>> It's very, very exciting to see them continue getting this level. What did you guys say on the green or red poll? Do we have more green or red? I mean, look, yesterday, I mean, not yesterday, Friday did feel like we were closing bottom. 77% of you said green. I mean, then again, every time we felt we were getting ready for a bottom, we ended up not bottoming. Obviously, the pre-market action so far, the five minutes into the market open action looks good, but then again, we've also been whipsawed many times last week, so it's hard to trust it. Cory right there, they're up 2%. Walmart as well up about 1%. But maybe this is real. Wow. Cipher's up 10%. Terowolf up 6%. All the data center names just getting back a lot of their levels that they lost last week. Even Nebas up 6.3. It's weird because Bitcoin's not I mean well Bitcoin's making a little bit of a move right there, but it's not like Bitcoin was where it was at last night at 88. So if Bitcoin is kind of your leading indicator, you're not seeing too much upside indicating why the equity markets would do well, but maybe also the, you know, people are detaching crypto from stocks and they're just trying to get more exposure. Wow. 316 on Google. I mean, is it it could it is is a 5% move on Google really a bull trap? Is a 5% move on Google really a bull trap? I don't know. It could be, but man, that's I mean, for this to reverse for 5% on Google, that's about um let's do the math right here. That is 192 billion in market. Call it 200 billion. I mean, well, we saw it with Nvidia last week. 500 billion up and 500 billion down. Obviously, it could happen, but goodness, that's a hell of a Monday morning. 200 billion on Google. 200 billion on Google. I ran right there. That's up 5.76% as well. 4450 as that one goes green. Benny says it's not a bull trap. It's getting the recognition that it already deserves. I agree with that. It's definitely getting the recognition. That's also a lot of green quickly. I would definitely imagine there are some people that want to take profits. The question is, do they take profits to the point where Google loses this entire move and it goes back to 300. But if Google go back goes back to 300, it's like, okay, goes back to 300. Like the fact that we're normalizing 300 is in and of itself just incredible to see. Broadcom right there, that's up 6%. That one continues to move higher. Is that an alltime high? I don't think that's all time. No, that's all No, 386 is alltime high. It touched 386 back in October. All right, so we're not that oldtime highs yet. Baba's still at 4%. UNH is up a little bit and then pound share 15920 15920 PayPal that was at 57 last week that's at 60. It goes red again. I've not used all of Gemini 3. I use the nano banana stuff. I played with that a little bit and that was pretty incredible. But I've not used u the the core chatbot. I still I still use Grock a bit more to be honest. So I've got to make time to actually try Gemini. But for the people that are trying it, you know, they're just they're just saying that they can't imagine using something else. It is quite incredible. Oklahoma right there, that's up 2%. And the other thing about Google is that it has all your data already. So, you know, it has all your search history. So, if you ask it a question, it should have a little bit more personal context, which is why I can imagine that it is a better experience. Tesla right there, 409. Tesla 409 is that continues to go green. Doug says, "Google's in price discovery." That's a fair point as well. I mean, there's never been any volume at these levels because it's never seen these levels, but a 5% move to start out the morning, to start out the week for Google, is pretty incredible. By the way, you did have some uh politicians buy more names that are closer to Google, including this guy, Jared Mosovitz. He bought Broadcom, which is your Google proxy, TSM, Cisco, and Dell. bought about 45,000 of each of those as was disclosed uh this morning. So you do have a bit more of the politicians getting in on the AI trade in this case through Broadcom. Microsoft right there 473. Microsoft losing a little bit of its move today. Robin Hood if we can just hold 110 I'd be happy. I mean Robin Hood was very close to going below 100 last week. So if we can even hold these levels that would be good for Hoodie. Nvidia goes red. Wow. So Google goes up 5% and Nvidia goes down. That's kind of crazy. I mean, obviously you have that argument around TPUs versus GPUs, which look, that's a legit argument. That's not enough, I think, to deny Nvidia's growth. So, I mean, you can you can make the argument that Google TPUs are a threat, which they are. I mean, all the customics are a threat at some point. It's just the data and the type of demand we're seeing from Nvidia does not validate that as like a sell Nvidia by Google type of thing. If if you are fully, you know, focused on AI infrastructure as the builder focus more on software and the the cloud computing aspect of it. Obviously, Google is the better buy. But Nvidia right there 178.881 still red on the day. I ran all the data center plays are up six to 7% like I ran Nebius and Corey, but Nvidia is down which is kind of weird. I ran and Nebius both up 6.4%. 4%. Broadcom up 6%. Google again up five. Nvidia is the one that goes red on the day. Weeble goes red. Target goes red. Oracle continues red. Market is not happy with their debt. Still not impressed by it. Credit default swaps doubled over the past week on Oracle as investors look for protection. This one gets I mean if Oracle gets I don't know what the level would be, but if we see some more deterioration in the price. I we've already seen a pretty ugly draw down, but the problem is I don't count the 350 to 220 draw down as real because like it probably never should have been at 350. Realistically, it's down from 220 to 196, which is a decent draw down, but you know, getting to 175, I think, would be a lot more attractive. It's just that debt is really the bigger. I mean, that's why Core Weave is not up as much as I Nebby is today. Corweave up three. I ren up six. The debt burning continues to become an issue. APLD that is at 5.9%. As that one continues going green as well. Oscar still holding. Again, Oscar's up on a rumor. It's not even up on anything official yet. So, a lot of the healthcare names are just waiting for some level of actual legitimacy around these ACA subsidy extensions. But also going up about 20%. VG VG is down another 5%. I don't own BG so I don't know that much about it. I know that uh core case with BP is obviously a big headwind right there but that's down 5.86%. How about next decade? That one's also down about 2%. Google right back to 316. Oh boy. Did did the Chinese president really just say this? Xi just said, "Return of Taiwan to China is a key part of post-war international order." I'm surprised markets aren't fully pricing in that statement right now. Dude, why did this guy Every time he talks about Taiwan, it's not really the best thing to say. We just got that quote right now. Google likes it. Google's like, "As look, gee, as long as you're searching for uh for Taiwan on our website, you know, and you need you need a map to connect. Well, we got Google images. We'll show you. We'll make you a map. If you need a new map, we'll make you one." I mean, like, wow. Google's trying to push 317. Goodness. 31692. Now, again, the the Chinese say this all the time. They haven't necessarily taken massive action because they know that obviously if they did take action there would be uh well there would be a breakout of a war of magnitude. Maybe it's World War II, maybe not, but it would not be pretty. So they always like saying this stuff. For the past couple years, they haven't necessarily acted as aggressively. Now again, uh yeah, just like Rocket Man, that is correct. However, if you if you if you ever watch any interviews of Taiwanese officials, they've said it's not a question of if, it's a question of when. China begins to, you know, recapitulate both both countries together. BMR up 3%. And so I I I don't know when China would try to do it. This is something like that people like Paul Morucky have been talking about for years that it's inevitably going to happen and America is going to have to get involved. And when we do get involved, obviously there's going to be a lot of issues. Um, but I would imagine they're going to do it under a president. They think they can get away with it from it. I don't know if they think Trump's going to be the right president to do it under, which is another question around American diplomacy interacting with China. Xi is scheduled to come to the White House in April. As per President Trump, Cory, right, they're up about 1.1%. Wow, Google 317. There it goes. There it goes. 317. Google being resilient against pretty much any headline today. That's kind of crazy, dude. 31730 on the gooses. 5.9% 3.83 trillion. Look, I love Google, but this is really quick, guys. I mean, uh, the NATO deal is a a nice deal, but it's not a crazy multi-billion dollar deal. So, I'm not sure exactly why the market's being that excited. It's good to see, but whenever you get a run up that quick, it also makes you question, you know, is the draw down going to also be that quick or if there's a deeper story. Is there a deeper headline, I guess, than like a NATO cloud computing contract getting Google to get this love? So, right there 26 Meta 603 as well. Door Dash, are we green on Door Dash? Door Dash is slightly green. No, red 2% down. Micron is also Micron took a nice straw down last week of almost 15%. That's up 6.38%. That one's green. Deep Mind Lee tweeted game over. Yeah, look, I agree that Google is um Google is is is like definitively making progress in the AI trade and they're winning. The question is, does it deserve all the market cap gains for being in first? And and and the answer is probably yes. So I guess what are people rotating out of? And quite frankly, they might be rotating out of a lot of the uh the value names that were catching a bid last week and maybe saying, "Hey, well, this is where we think AI is going. It's it's Google." Salesforce right there, that's up a little bit as well. Salesforce was actually green last week as it was getting a bit more of a bid. Bitcoin right there, right back below 86. We were just at 86.6, now down to 85.6. $1,000 red candle on Bitcoin. Nvidia, boom, third of a percent down. Google has a little bit of a red candle right there as the broader market got a red candle, but Google's still holding a 5% move. Robin Hood holding 110. S&P. I mean, it's down from 665, but still up almost 1% on the day. You know, it does feel like they're rotating out of Microsoft, to be honest. Like the look at Microsoft, dude. Is Microsoft about Microsoft lost 470, but last time Microsoft was 469 was June. June 10th. Wow. It's been a while. It hit 553 back in August after they had that blockbuster quarter. Then it kind of consolidated and then it got right back up to 553 right before the latest Q3 and then it dumped. Google right here at 317 still holding it. Looks like maybe it's coming a little bit out of Microsoft. Fear and Greed's at 13. Okay, so you're seeing that expand from six. Grab right there at 528. That's up 7.7%. Oscar is up 21%. AMD is also moving. Fear and greed is at 13. It did get to six last week. Now it's at 14. Still at extreme fear. We were at six on Monday, which so far was your buy signal. AMD 212 that's up 5%. Yeah. What is going on with Nvidia today? That is weird. It's you know you know what the narrative is which I mean theoretically just looking at the price action maybe some of the narrative is sell by Google. I mean maybe that is some of the narrative here. That is quite incredible to see Nvidia go down on a day with Google making this type of a move. Micron's making a big move. AMD is making a big move and Nvidia is flat. Like the market really is starting to hate Nvidia again. Really? Like is that actually what's happening right here? Broadcom's up 7% and Nvidia's down. Rocket Lab goes down 2%. I mean, I don't It's like the market's almost thinking in 2026 Nvidia is not going to sell any GPUs or their their rate of growth of selling is going to be significantly down which is very hard to imagine given everything that Jensen said. Tass right there 407 SoFi back below 26. I mean it's up a little bit today because it closed in the low 25s on Friday but goodness. And then Meta 603. Maybe people think Nvidia is peing. Yeah, I mean that could again that could be the narrative, but just given the growth and projections we saw, it's really hard to imagine that's the case. The depreciation argument is not that real to me. I mean, you have some people looking at their accounts receivables and stuff. I again, I don't I think those are very uh naive arguments or at least arguments that are not enough to tear down the structure of video. By the way, that leaked email we talked about on Friday, that leaked memo, that was real. That was confirmed by multiple sources. Jensen basically said that we're in a catch22. If we win, we're fueling the AI bubble. If we don't do well, then we're popping the AI bubble. So, he kind of because I think I think he's he felt the morale of the company was down after earnings because they had the best quarter in history and obviously they saw the stock just completely reverse its gains. And so I think he had to like tell them the reality of the fact that the market right now really is scared about if we do good or bad and that's why Nvidia is getting hit. Oracle right there still down below 200. Micro Strategy obviously gets hit. Wow. 166 on Micro Strategy as Google uh or as Bitcoin continues to get down. Dow Jones just went red. That is correct. DIA, those are the diamonds. They just went red 461. You know, I wonder is Google's not in the Dow Jones, right? I mean, I Microsoft and Nvidia are there. You would imagine Google should be there. They took out Intel last year for Nvidia. Amazon, Microsoft, Nvidia. Yeah, dude. I mean, there's a lot of these companies they can. So, they have Microsoft, Nvidia, Amazon, and Apple. I mean, I feel like they could get rid of one of these companies for Google. They got Disney in there. They got freaking McDonald's, Boeing, Chevron, Salesforce. I mean, I know the goal of the Dow Jones is not to be tech heavy, but maybe Google ends up making it. Cory right there. 72. That one basically going red. Nebius 8818 still holding 6%. We Ride's up 9%. I think we ride had earnings today. Uh yeah. Wow. We ride up 12% right there. That is a Chinese, if I'm not wrong, uh EV AV company, so they're working on self-driving. Grab does have an equity stake in those guys. 808 as that stock is up 12%. Uh Meta, are we seeing a reversal right here? Meta, a little bit of reversal. I know Chris has been more excited about Meta over the past couple weeks. I think he is claiming this is his u best. I mean, he was on the show last week and he said this is his best buy going into 2026. I I don't think that's a horrible choice at all. I mean, maybe Meta has a stagnant 2026 as the street tries to figure out qualitatively what they're doing with their capex, but eventually the earnings growth is going to lead to an increased multiple, which is exactly what we saw with Google. Google's just had different issues with the with the DOJ, but I feel like that same story replaces itself or repeats itself again. Matter right there, 608 AMD that's up 3% on the day. Grabs up 7%. Rocket Lab back to 40. Nvidia is still red. Dude, I haven't tried FSD14. I just haven't downloaded it yet. I need to like just sit down and download it. Uh, apparently they released 14.2. Market likes it. 411 on Tesla up 5%. Yeah, I mean I used FSD over the weekend, but I still think I'm on 13.9.2, so I need to just get the new version of it and see what it's like. But I mean, 13.9 has been amazing for me. I haven't had too many issues. 410.8 on Tessie. I believe I have hardware 4. Yes. So, I should be able to use it at the the max capacity. 14.2 is great. Hey, I tried it yesterday. Yeah, looks like I'll I'll try to get that downloaded this week and give you guys my review on it. I I just don't drive that much anymore. Like it's like once or twice a week, but when I do drive, it's, you know, fully FSD. Nvidia 177 still down about 1% and then Google 316. Let's see if we have any other macro headlines coming in. Broadcom again is up as they are one of the critical suppliers for TPUs. And that's why Google is going green as well. Oh, take a look at this chart. I saw this over the weekend and I thought this was also really important. Um, Mag 7. So, Mag 7 earnings were up 18% year-over-year in Q3. This is the lowest since Q1 of 2023, obviously, because the companies have gotten a lot bigger and so they're not able to grow as fast. But the other 493 on the S&P 500, 14.7% growth in Q3 versus an expected 5.9%. So although we are topheavy on the market, we beat expectations on the 493 by almost double, a little bit more than double. And it's not like the broadening of the economy from an earnings perspective isn't happening. And a lot of those companies, by the way, outside of the like consumer good companies that said that uh the consumer is weakening like Chipotle, Lulu, Starbucks, etc. The rest of the companies, they beat on EPS by a wide margin. And a lot of that EPS gain has to be in margin efficiency and obviously some level of AI implementation that's helping them achieve those margins. Amcore right there, that's up 2.6%. Broadcom's up 7%, Palanter 15790, and then Apple at 273. So yes, is the S&P 500 concentrated 100%. Is there uh absolutely no earnings growth in the other 493 companies? Like no. Like we are seeing it. Maybe not as heavily as the Mag 7, but it's not like they're not growing at all. By the way, Goldman said this morning, "We expect another Fed cut in December, followed by two more moves in March and June that take the Fed fund rate back to 3.3.25." So JP Morgan gave up on their December rate cut forecast. Goldman is saying, "No, we still think that we are going to get that rate cut in uh in December." We're going to get PPI this week, retail sales, the house price index, uh jobless claims, durable goods orders, Chicago PMI, Richmond Fed manufacturing index. There's a lot of pieces of data we'll get this week. So hopefully that will also give the market a little bit more clarity on what is going on throughout the week. Let's pull up a heat map for today. Uh we are relatively green in tech. Everything else is selling off. So this is the opposite of what we saw on Wednesday last week. You had utilities, consumer defensives, healthcare, industrials go green, tech red. Today tech is green. Not all of it, but a decent chunk of it. Obviously Google and Broadcom leading the way and everything else is red. Fear and greed is at 13. Greed is at 13. Uh Hims did not get that much of a move from the Lily and Novo deal last week. Hims right there is is up 5% on the day still below 40 trying to reclaim that 40 level that's at 3656. Uh Bill Aman went on Fox over the weekend and he's eyeing out a new stock that they are doing some due diligence on potentially. I mean after you hear this maybe it's Meta. It it sounds like you're bullish going into the new year. Are you poised to put new money to work in equities going into 26?
>> Yeah, look, I think it's been an interesting market. You've had some enormously successful companies have generated huge returns this year. You've had a lot of stocks that are down a ton. So, I think it's a very good market for stock pickers. You know, we're very concentrated investors and we're seeing some very high quality businesses showing up at very attractive prices. Uh and so I, you know, we'll absolutely be putting money to work. We've actually got um you know approaching 15% cash and we're looking at a number of very interesting things.
>> So what would it take for you to put that 15% cash to work? A big selloff?
>> No. Just uh finishing our due diligence on a company we really have wanted to own for years now available at a bargain price. You know something like that.
>> It it sounds like you're
>> I mean does that not sound like meta? Does that I mean there there's some candidates out there. There's a meta. There's a Salesforce, there's an Adobe, who knows, maybe there's a PayPal. I mean, but now he said now that it's come to an attractive price. So, obviously, he's been waiting for a real dip. By the way, BMR getting a move right there. 7.4. Um, so that's nice for BMR. Is ETH moving. ETH is not really moving, guys. ETH is flat. BMR is expanding a bit of their MNAB right here. ETH is not really moving that heavily. So, it's nice to see BMR making an 8% movement there. But, I mean, it sounds like it could be Meta. I doubt it's Figma. I doubt it's Tesla. Although, Bill Aman read the book on Palunteer by Michael Steinberger. Uh, I interviewed him on the channel a couple of weeks ago. Um, and Bill Aman had some very high praise for carb and the book. I really don't think he's going to be buying Palanteer. I mean, that would that would be exciting if he did, but he's just not that type of investor. He tends to look for those names that really, really, really are seeing a massive decline. And I mean, what I mean, he's talking about a name that he's been wanting to own for years, but now it's finally at an attractive price. I feel like that's a meta. Maybe it's an Oracle, but I I don't think he wants to get caught up in their debt. I doubt it's Grab, although that would be fun. I doubt it's Nebius, although you got Nebas right there back to 90. Dude, the more I research about Nebius, the more I love this stock. or I should say I love this company. The stock hopefully will perform well over the coming years, but I really I mean I know I did a deep dive on them a while ago, but now that I actually bought the stock and like you're forced to even go deeper, I really do think Neb is cheap here at a $22 billion market cap given the diver I mean their click house stake alone in a year or two should be worth 10 billion. It's it it just you know it's just one of those names that obviously gets super uh volatile given the debt load the data center bucket that it's in the algos controlling that part of the market. But I think that's where you get an opportunity if this thing really sells off and now it's not erased the Microsoft deal but it's definitely taken off a good chunk of that Microsoft deal pump. I mean this thing was at 140 at one point. So I am liking Nebas more but I don't think Bill Aman bought Nebas. Bill Aman already has Amazon so it's not Amazon. So So that's the thing. He has Amazon. has Google. He loaded up on Google back in 90. I think he bought Amazon at around 180. So, I think his strategy is just buying discounted Mac7s. And is that a bad strategy? I mean, a lot of people here took a chance on a discounted Mac 7 this year, Google being the most obvious one, and it's done very well. Even Apple, if you bought Apple at 180 at the low, even if you bought it at 220, you're having a great year, you know, if you really loaded the boat. So, I don't think it's crazy for him to go after Meta if he already got Google and uh and Amazon. 27.95 right there on BMR. Um, may I Meta? Yeah, he should have said may I meet you. That would have been funny. Ethereum. It's almost like BMR was front running Ethereum. Ethereum right there. 2,800 now. Ethereum going green. His bid mine's already there. Nvidia still red. Market still holding up. Google still holding 316. Grab still holding 7%. Microsoft just went green. Micron up another 7%. Nvidia still down. Let's get an update right here on inflation. No 10 a.m. slam yet. Yeah, let's wait for 10:30 and see if it happens. Let's get an update right here on inflate and then we'll keep going from there. We will get PPI tomorrow which will also be very important
>> slowly back down and high and and it's not as high of a peak as they projected back in October. Inflation was the hot subject of of debate this weekend. The Treasury Secretary was on NBC's Meet the Press pushing back against this idea that the administration is causing inflation. Listen,
>> inflation h hasn't gone up. And Kristen, the one thing that we're not going to do is do what the Biden administration did and tell the American people they don't know how they feel. Uh they are traumatized and the over the Biden inflation. We have slowed inflation and we are working very hard to bring it down.
>> All right. So what's the latest on inflation? Just look at a CPI chart and and you can see you can see where it peaked during the Biden administration when it went right up after COVID and how it's come down. But how it is also remained sticky which is why the administration is facing questions like this. The last read we got and remember it's been all messed up because of the shutdown is 3%. That was the September number on inflation. It was a little bit elevated. We aren't going to get October inflation now. We'll get some figures that'll go into the November inflation report but that's not until the middle of December. So the best guess, Carl, is that inflation has come certainly way down off the peak. The administration is right about that. There are sticky parts of it. Many of it is in services. It's not necessarily even tied to tariffs as the Treasury Secretary said, but some of it is in the food prices and that's why, you know, they've made moves to roll those back on tariffs.
>> And a lot of those moves to roll back the tariffs. Again, if that has a direct impact on inflation, that makes it easier for the Fed to cut. And if that makes it easier for the Fed to cut, then you know, you've got a lot better of an opportunity for this end ofear run that could be happening. By the way, oil basically flat on the day WTI crude at 58, still below 60. So, that part of gas prices coming down has been relatively strong. This is a tweet that uh Austin just put in the chat. I forgot how much Bill Aman loved UMG. He tried to get these guys to go public back in 2020 through a spa and it didn't work. Here's a tweet from him from a couple of days ago basically saying that there was a court case on UMG that has now been removed. That court decision is very positive for UMG whose share price experienced a 25% decline over the past month. UMG stock is extremely cheap at its current valuation. Maybe they buy UMG. Maybe they officially buy UMG and put it in the fund. I feel like they have some UMG already though. Or did they not acquire any of it after? Because they tried to take it public, but that didn't work out. There was a variety of regulatory issues that didn't make sense. Yeah, UMG is a mafia for music. That would not surprise me if they end up just putting UMG in Persian Square instead. Especially because you got an AMAN tweet basically saying that he thinks it's undervalued after 25% decline. And in that Fox interviews interview, he said that now this servant stock has reached a level that is attractive. Pouncer right there making a move 161 hoodie 111. All right, we are getting some real green candles right here. Wow. Nebas breaking 30. Oracle going green on the day at 203. Hims 37. Tesla almost 414. Meta 609. Google are breaking 317. Wow. Google 318. All right, you're getting the greenest candles we had all morning pop up right here at 10:05. Maybe they can sustain themselves. This is a nice little move because even if we go down from here, we're going down to levels that are still relatively green on the day. Nvidia just flipped green 179. On drone company, they had a great earnings last week. They actually held up during the draw down. That's up 19% on the day. Grab trying to push 530. Look at that. 8% up on the day. Nebus 89.89. Quantum stock should be moving. DW that's up 6% on the day. Verizon is down, which makes sense. You're getting a value rotation. Duolingo, this is the most hated stock in the history of the stock market. So, that one will just always be red forever. Adobe 321, that one is also the second most hated stock in the history of the stock market. ESTs, that's up 2%. Goldman Sachs is up. Taiwan Semi is up. Wow, you're getting a pretty big move right here, dude. across the board. BM goes breaking 318 to hit 31827. AMD, look at that. 212 from 195. Lemonade should be moving too. Lemonade, that's up 9%. That's basically where it was after the earnings. Oscar up 24%, another 4% from this morning. And then Google holding 317. What do we think, guys? Do we Are we uh clear for takeoff? Are we clear for take I hate saying that because like we're probably not because we probably got more choppiness to deal with. But also, all of us have PTSD from last week seeing green candles just get obliterated. Dude, that Thursday, I'm still not over seeing everything pump. Everyone getting ready for Santa Claus, getting ready for Thanksgiving. You start making your travel plans. You're like, "I'm good. My portfolio's taken care of. Jensen saved everybody." And then you look over to to the screen and you're like, "This can't be happening." No, it's happening. Like a complete reversal of almost a trillion dollars in video being half of that at 450 billion just gone. And so we got to see if that continues. Wow. Google 31850. My goodness. Yeah, I don't know if I would chase this today. Not just Google, but the entire market. I don't know if I would chase anything today. Now, granted, if we're if we're making the the Vshape, then, you know, and and a lot of these prices have a lot further to go to reach their even 50-day moving average, then maybe buying here is not crazy, but again, you got to get over the fears of potentially getting a reversal. A core back to 33. Amcore got to 36 on Nvidia earnings, then it fell all the way back to 30. So, a lot of these names just reversed with the whims of the market. Baba right there, that's up 5%. Even Hoodie touching 112, now 111 day. Him's up 7%. Dead reindeer bounce. Dude, do you guys do you guys remember the show uh the movie Grandma Got Run Over by a reindeer? Randomly, it popped up on my feed the other day and I was like, "Dude, this is like one of the greatest Christmas movies ever." And I started getting nostalgia for nostalgic for Christmas now that it's I've I've always loved Christmas. So I started getting a bit nostalgic and then I realized, you know, my portfolio is bleeding to death. So I was like, "Oh, no more time for nostalgia." But if the portfolio can go green, then maybe the nostalgia can come back. Google right here at 318. That's up ciphers of 16%. Look at that. Guess that one continues to make move. Okay. No, I actually have seen the movie, dude. For those that haven't seen it, it is one of the best animated movies around Christmas. It's a good one. I know. I don't I know I don't watch a lot of movies, but that is legit. I almost watched uh A Christmas Carol, the Mickey Mouse, the Disney version of A Christmas Carol. Like, I always get so I I really do love the holidays and uh some of these movies definitely definitely get me in the holidays. Amazon right there. 225 Nebius 90. Oh, I watched another movie over the weekend as well. I don't know why I wanted to watch this again, but I watched it. I watched Catch Me If You Can over the weekend. I don't know what I think a clip popped up or something. I was like, you know what? I want to watch this movie again. So, I watched Catch Me If You I I am convinced Leonardo DiCaprio is like a top five actor of all time. Like legit. That that movie in of itself just reminded me how good he is. Meta 609, Coreweave 7340, and Nvidia going back to red. So, Nvidia wants to break out with the rest of the market. It's not really breaking out yet, but it's trying. Google still holding 317. Big Bear now up 11% as well on the day. Um, uh, thank you for the super chat, Ja. Yes, we played that clip around depreciation, um, in the morning, and I agree with Freedberg. I I think Bur is getting this argument wrong, especially because it's based on utilization and not value creation. So, it doesn't mean that we're easily going to see that type of a decline on the life cycle of a GPU if it's based on utilization. So I I agree. Now Bur did launch his Substack over the weekend for those that were wondering what was his big announcement. So maybe he has a lot more to say about depreciation, but nonetheless, I agree with that argument. Here's an update on Amazon and a new satellite that they have launched this morning.
>> Morning, Carl. Amazon is taking its first real commercial swing at Starlink, launching a new satellite antenna for businesses with fast speeds and tight AWS integration, but is still very much playing catch-up to Elon Musk's satellite network. The new terminal, called LEO Ultra, is built for companies operating in remote areas where traditional broadband doesn't reach. Amazon says that it is the fastest commercial antenna of its kind with speed strong enough to support video calls, cloud computing, and remote operations. It also enables private networking that routes data directly into AWS, bypassing the public internet, which is a big draw for sectors like energy, aviation, and government. But while it marks real progress, the gap between Amazon and SpaceX remains massive. Starlink is the dominant player in low Earth orbit satellite internet with around 8,000 satellites and more than 8 million customers globally. Amazon LEO, recently rebranded from Project Kyper, has just around 150 satellites in orbit. That is well below the 578 required to offer even limited service under FCC rules and far short of the roughly 1,600 needed by July 2026 to keep its license. Now to hit those numbers, Amazon is relying in part on SpaceX rockets to launch the next batch. A log a logistical twist that really highlights how far behind it is. Now full coverage won't come until next year, but Amazon is banking on AWS integration to set it apart over time. guys.
>> I'm not sure what that means in terms of the integration, but I it is funny to have to rely on your competitor to launch your own satellites. What about Blue Origin? I mean, isn't that part is that not at all in play here in terms of a way for them to get satellites up given it's Jeff Bezos Space Company?
>> It is in play. So, they've contracted with them to do 12 launches, but none of those have happened yet. And in terms of its partnership with SpaceX, it signed on to do three launches. The first of those happened in July. I will say that Amazon CEO Andy Jasse, at least on the second quarter earnings call, said that part of the delay in terms of getting satellites into orbit had to do with their launch partners. He also work with United Launch Alliance. And each time they send a rocket up, they're only getting a couple dozen satellites into the air. So
>> bullish Rocket Lab, it looks like you're going to need these launches to continue to advance going into the next decade. Rocket Lab right there, 40 bucks in the pre-market. But again, this is another reason why it's hard to fade Amazon, dude. They are competing at every single level of the economy in the United States whether it's satellites obviously e-commerce cloud computing I mean prime video every single element of competition Amazon finds a way to at least try to compete in Bitline right there 28 Ethereum 2800 and then Nebius right there 8937 so those blowoff the top green candles we saw those are now starting to relax a little bit and if we can even hold these levels till the end of the Hey, I think this would be very very excited. Did I say pre-market? I meant to say in the current market. I guess I've not woken up yet. Um, as also green on some of that Amazon news. AS right there. That's up 3%. This one went from 100 down to 49 back up to 53. Tesla 416. Wow. 6% move. Did I say pre-market a lot today? I don't know. Am I stuck in the pre-market? Dude, the pre-market is where we're always green. Maybe that's why I keep saying premarket. Whenever the market I'm traumatized whenever the market opens, the red leaves or the the red enters and the green leaves. So, I'm just perpetually stuck in the uh the pre-markets. Falling knife, thank you for the $200 super chat. Thank you for being here and thank you for the $200 super chat. We are seeing the markets get a little bit more momentum. Falling knife, if you guys follow him on Twitter, he did buy a million dollars of Bitmine last week. So, he definitely bought the dip on this one. Bit mine right there 20. I think the lowest Bitmine got to was 2540 or something like that. Ory, thanks for becoming a channel member. Google needs 330 to reach 4 trillion. It's not that far off. 316. I mean, by the end of the year, if you get the S&P 7,000, you would imagine Google easily breaks 330, but I guess we got to see if the the broader market cooperates. Speaking of Google, this was Sundar on quantum and how he thinks it's actually not that far away
>> with this extraordinary and fairly difficult to understand technology.
>> Oh, you the progresses. I think we have the state-of-the-art quantum computing efforts in the world. Uh the progress is so exciting. I would say quantum is there where maybe AI was 5 years ago. So I think in five years from now we'll be going through you know a very exciting phase in quantum and we are investing with a view towards that and but you know as as you know nature universe all fundamentally is based on the principles of quantum mechanics and building quantum systems I think will help us better simulate and understand nature and unlock many benefits uh for society
>> and and my sort of final question is
>> I mean look this is where the quantum names I think will continue to have a bid because at the end of the day if you have people like Sundar saying that quantum is going to be a real thing uh people are going to want to get exposure and they might not buy Google for that they might look at a D-Wave or a Q etci and that could be what keeps those stocks continuing their momentum Corey right they're up 1.54% Nvidia still red. Still red on the day 17865. So Nvidia hasn't really broken out. It tried. It got up to 179.90 and then stayed flat into its flat. Micardo Libre that's up 2%. Netflix up a little bit. Then Big Bear up 11% as well. All right, so we got a green Monday to start off. Let's wait until 10:30 to see if we get any type of slam. I mean, put in the chat right now, do you think we hold this green? I know the majority of people said we'll go green for the day, but like does Tesla really end the day at 4? We have not had a day where we open green and hold it in almost two weeks. Like, it's legitimately been two weeks since we've actually held the green. And I' I'd wonder today if this could be the day. Now granted, volumes are probably down because it is Thanksgiving week, but um still being able to hold any of these levels would be impressive. Now, the the the the uh the news on Friday that actually got us to go slightly green towards the end of Friday was still pretty bloody was Trump coming out and saying, well, he didn't say this, but Bloomberg reported that Trump is internally floating selling Nvidia H200s to China. Um by the way, some other quotes from Xi today. He said uh the United States should jointly safeguard victorious outcomes of World War II. So he said China and the US should work together to protect what happened after World War II. He also said uh we should strive for more progress in bilateral ties and Xi also said we should open new spaces for cooperation. So, uh, you do have some level of positive commentary from Xi to the US that could also be naturally good for the markets. And then you have the potential of, uh, Trump selling those Nvidia H200s, which I don't think China wants. I think they want the Blackwell. But still, that was something that got the market excited that he's even open to allowing Nvidia sales back to China. And maybe all of that put together could be a little bit more of a reason for why Nvidia can make a move. Yeah, holding past 11 today would also be very important. The VIX, is the VIX up? The VIX is No, VIX is down 7%. VIX is indeed down 7%. S&P, wow, back to old not all time highs, back to intraday high 665. led likely by Google today. Rocket Lab up 1.27. Again, the euphoric level of prices we saw back in October, that's over. Navius is not 140 anymore. Rock Lab is not 75. Robinet is not 150. Palenter is not 200. Nvidia is not 212. Um, Bitmine is not 60. So, it's not like we haven't taken a haircut. I mean, we've taken a haircut across the board. And yes, could there be more pain? Sure. But like, does there have to be another 10 or 20% downside for the market to eventually say, "All right, it's time to start buying." Like, I don't I don't think that has to be the case, especially because earnings were good. Like, Rocket Lab, Palanteer, and Vidia, they all had great earnings. Maybe not earnings enough to justify the levels they got to, but it's not like they had horrible earnings and they were pushing all-time highs. They had phenomenal earnings. The market just continued to extend the premium. The market took away some of the premium. The market hasn't taken away the multiple. All those stocks I mentioned still have a pretty healthy multiple. It's just like the multiple is not as high. And I think towards the end of the year, you know, Rock Lab doesn't need to go back to 70, but at least holding these levels and not collapsing to like the 20s, which is what it felt like was happening last week. Felt like Robin was going back to 80, Rock Lab was going back to 20. Nvidia was going to 12. Like it just felt like everything was collapsing. And that at least this morning is not necessarily the same type of feeling. Meta right there. High of day 610. 610.4 as that goes green. Will things be that euphoric again? I I don't think they will anytime soon until Donnie T gets these rates down to like 2%. But that's also a good thing. I mean, you probably don't want it to be that euphoric in the in the in the short term, which I think is okay. Um, let's hear from the former Treasury Secretary on what he thinks we should be doing with rates. We had a bunch of these former Fed presidents come out saying that a cut might be reasonable. So maybe we can further get some analysis on that. When you have policy that's driving in an inflationary direction, at a time when the deficit is as large as it is and growing and the tariffs distorting so much that's going on in our economy, it's hard to say I'm comfortable. I'm not of the view that we're about to go over a cliff, but a shock could come and we're not well poised to handle a shock.
>> You you say inflationary policy. What do you mean? Are you talking about tariffs? Because
>> I I think tariffs are inflationary. I think
>> they haven't been that I mean if you look at the bulk of where the inflation has been stubborn it's in the services it's not in the
>> it's actually it it it's coming through in goods now um what we saw was uh wholesalers absorbing for a period of time passing through the cost increases uh over time it's starting to come through um certainly in food even the response to take the tariffs off of coffee
>> everybody knows coffee is expensive I Yes, we we we all drink coffee and we see it every day.
>> Coffee, cocoa, bananas. No, definitely in parts of it, but I think in aggregate actually it's been surprising how tame the overall goods inflation has been.
>> So, I I don't disagree that it's been surprising that it hasn't moved through quickly. I think that there's a a an uncertainty in terms of what the response to price increases will be that's causing uh businesses to delay passing prices through. But anyone who looks at the economic analysis of the how tariffs uh go through the economy, they end up in prices. Now, it doesn't have to be that it raises inflationary expectations. It could be a one-time increase. It's phased in over time, but you put that on top of uh the budget bill that passed over the summer, which is extremely large. It adds trillions of dollars to the deficit. And the only reason you're not seeing it is that the revenue from the tariffs is kind of offsetting it in the aggregate numbers. If the Supreme Court, as I believe it should, finds that those tariffs can't continue, then there's going to be a big hole in the budget that just
>> they'll figure out another way to get the tariffs, don't you?
>> You know, I think they have mechanisms that they will use to try and extend many of them, but they're much more cumbersome. They take more time. They won't be as broad, and I I don't think it will be the equivalent. I I do agree that they
>> So that's the perspective on the street and he's not alone, but there are a variety of people that think that the tariff in I mean this is why Hammock and all those other Fed presidents last week said we still think inflation is an issue because regardless of the tariff decreases by the Trump administration, now you're seeing a little bit more of the red candles come in right here. Um inflation is still going to be a concern. Again, you have the opposite view from Williams, Waller, etc. But it really looks like this market is coming down to that Fed decision on rate cuts and that's what controls everything. And I'm sure the yen carry trade is part of it and a maybe crypto massive Binance glitch is part of it, but comes down to are we going to create more liquidity or not? And again, if we don't and we end out uh the year not in the most exciting of manners, like that's fine because we know eventually 2026 we're getting those cuts. But I think that will be the determining factor of how this year ends out. And quite frankly, if we don't get the cut and we just end up getting a deeper dip, then you know, we know what's happening in 26. So at the end of the day, I I do think that would be a decent buying opportunity. Meta right there at 609. We ride at eight bucks. Coreweave holding a little bit of green. Dow Jones just flipped green as well. It was red on the day. Bit mine at 28. The inflation narrative is over. I I want to believe the inflation narrative is over. I quite frankly I mean you guys know my opinion. I think the labor market matters way more than the inflation narrative. But these high ranking officials that keep bringing it up and discussing it and making it a priority. Like that's the issue. If the Fed keeps thinking it matters, which again it's it's it's just weird because four weeks ago Jalow did not seem like he cared more about inflation and it's almost like I don't know they saw some type of grocery food prices data and then immediately switched their mind. But obviously I think the labor market is going to matter a lot more. Tesla right there 414 as that is up 6% on the day. Let me show you guys a clip I saw over the weekend about Meta as well. So Meta right here 609. Uh we've been having a lot of conversation around private credit and the hyperscalers tapping the debt markets. Here's what one of the head JP Morgan analysts explained about Meta and the deal they had with Blue Owl Capital. It's actually really good for Meta and really not good for the private credit market.
>> The Meta deal was interesting and when I explain how I view it, you'll probably say, "Well, that that's even scarier than if it was Meta." Let's hear it.
>> The Meta partnership with Blue Owl that borrowed 27 billion in the investment grade bond markets was an SPV with a strange French name and the debts not consolidated onto Meta's balance sheet. Initially, I was concerned that that was some kind of slight of hand. It's not. It's worse. They basically have walkway rights every four years and a declining residual value guarantee. Blue Owl's holding the bag. So, Blue Owl is at risk if at any point Meta basically says, you know, this this we're not getting a return on this particular data center.
>> This is why people are having concerns about the private credit market because Blue Owl underwrote the Meta partnership to basically say, we're going to take all the risk. Super bullish for Meta because if they don't see an ROI, they can immediately just default and they can move on. But Blue Owl gets left holding the back. But Blue Owl is trusting the data center infrastructure buildout. are trusting Zuck's vision so much that they're willing to take the risk, which from the people in the private credit market are saying, "What the hell are you doing? What if it doesn't work out?" And that's why sort of the wonky standards and underwriting today in private credit in particular are scaring certain parts of the market.
>> U complex were out and blue and the people that have put up the money for blue owl will be the ones holding the back. So I think S&P was right to kind of withhold consolidation of that obligation. But it says it says a lot about the underwriting discipline that's taking place in in you know in private credit and in other places that are financing these data centers because they're the ones that are taking the risk. It's essentially releasing risk the likes of which you've seen forever in the commercial real estate markets.
>> So it sounds like someone is on the hook. In this case, it's Blue Owl, and we're probably seeing equivalence in these other debt deals. And by the way, we're seeing this kind of reflect in the stock right now. Blue Owl is publicly traded, and it's been it's declining this week. Um, but
>> I I mean, I couldn't believe it when I heard that Zux negotiate. I mean, obviously Zux had more leverage right here because if the deal does work out, it's a lot of money for Blue Owl. But Blue Owl just like straight up said, "All right, we'll hold the bag." And that type of underwriting has been a lot more consistent in the trends that we've seen around, you know, this concern about a private credit bubble. Does it come back to bite everybody in the ass? Maybe. But it is the risk that a lot of these private credit issuers are taking right here. Nvidia still read on the day S&P 665 met a high of day at 611. That was not Nicholas Cage for those that are asking. That would be funny though if Nicholas Cage became the head of JP Morgan's equity analyst team. That would be quite hilarious. Again, dude, after I watched Catch Me If You Can over the weekend, it led me into a rabbit hole around Leo and his career. And then I I watched, not literally watched, but I like watched some clips of Titanic again. I think Leo's a top five actor of all time. I think it's just that simple. I think he's a top, honestly, he's probably a top three actor. I mean, like, name two actors better than Leo DiCaprio. There's not there's not many you could name. Like, I I He's my number one actor of all time. Wolf of Wall Street, Titanic, Catch Me If You Can, like Inception. I mean, he's up there. Departed. Yes, I've watched Departed. It was great in Departed. Rocket Lab right there. 40.90. You've w you've seen too few movies, so you can't make that call again. I I I told this to Steve. I think a lot of you guys that have watched so many movies are actually uh discombobulated in your thinking of analysis of movies because you have so much to it's like when you go to a buffet and there's so many desserts like you don't actually enjoy the desserts because there's too many options but if you go to a restaurant and they only have two things on the dessert menu like you really are going to focus on one of those things that you order or two of them. So, I think my my my my movie pallet is actually way better because I've only seen a few movies. Microsoft right there. 472. He won't date you. You're above 25. Dude, that is a real thing. I don't know why I don't know why he has that rule, but he legit has that rule. But no, um I I DiCaprio's the best ever. like minimum top five, probably top three, most likely number one actor of all time. And I don't think anyone has a real argument for that. Like even if you've watched a million movies, I don't think you can make that argument. Brad Pitt is not a better actor than Leah. Come on, dude. I'd rather take Matthew McConnA if you're going to make an argument over Brad Pitt. Alpuccino. Yeah, that's But he's not Look, Scarface wasn't even that good of a movie. Okay. So, no, he's not above Leo. Amazon 225. AMD still moving 4%. Let's see if we have any other macro headlines. Christian Bale, dude, Christian Bale is amazing, but he's not better than Leo. Like, he doesn't have the the the the lifetime work that Leo has. He has good movies, but he doesn't have the number of bangers that Leo has. Uh oh, take a look at this. Gold. So, again, gold. This is a Bank of America survey on gold continuing to be a major trade. Only 5% of global fund managers believe that gold prices will exceed 5,000 by the end of 2026. 39% of professional investors in Bank of America's latest survey last week do not own any gold in their portfolios. That's almost 40% of institutional fund managers don't own gold. And gold is at 4,91, still above 4,000. I wonder if gold ends up being the the the trade going into uh next year as well. And I wonder what implications that has on Bitcoin. Obviously, it seems like liquidity leaves Bitcoin and goes to commodities or that at least has been happening all year. Tesla 416 high of day. Google once again trying to push 318. S&P officially high of day 66560. That's up 1%. And then Meta high of day at 612. Bro, who the hell is Daniel D. Lewis? I don't even care how much you guys judge me for that. I've never heard of this guy. Gangs of New York. No, I've never heard of this guy. I'm sorry. I'm not even trolling, dude. I've never heard of this guy. I don't know. But this guy's not above Leo. I'm sorry. No, like there Will Be Blood. Phantom Thread. What? What? What good movie is even Lincoln? I remember watching that in high school. No, dude. No. No. This is not Give me a better one than Daniel D. Lewis. This is not the guy. Last of the Mohanss. You guys can spam L all you want. Like at the end of the day, you ask a thousand people on the street who's better, Leo or Daniel D Lewis, I mean he's Leo's gonna win 70 to 80% of the vote. Like it's just Keanu Reeves is not better than Leo either. Like just because he was in the Matrix doesn't like No, every other Matrix after the first one was trash. Are we going to give that to Keanu Ree? No. Like I'm talking about Denzel Washington is great. I don't think he's better than Leo. He's phenomenal. He's probably in there in the top five. He's not better than Leo. Okay, Jack Nicholson is up there. I can't I can't deny that. That one I'm not going to be disrespectful about that. That one I agree. Tom Hanks, I also agree. He was great in Catch Me If You Can, but I don't think he's better than LEO. S&P high of the day, by the way. See, the S&P likes my take. I mean, I I didn't have this take all of last week. S&P was red. As soon as I bust out this Leo top actor of all time take, S&P goes up 1% on the day. No, Tom Cruz is not better than Leo. Just because Tom Cruz likes doing his own stunts does not mean he's better than Leo. If we're talking about acting, we're talking about like, you know, this a sort of spiritual psychoanalytical experience that the actor can portray from the screen. Jim Car's great. Denzel's great. Um, Tom Cruz is great. Tom Hanks is great, but they're not. Leo, they're just not. Tesla's still holding on to its level. Amazon not really breaking out from 224, but at least up 2%. Grab actually having a 9% day. You know, it was funny. I was texting someone last night about Grab, and they're like, "What are you thinking?" I'm like, "Dude, I don't think it stays below five for a long time." Like, I I I was literally I was like, "Dude, it's this thing is going to rebound above five. Like I know it's been ugly over the past couple of weeks, but in the 490s, 480s, like that's just discounting way too much. Uh, and it's nice to see a bit of a restabilizing move right here above 530. If we can get above 550, that would be really nice. Core, that's up 1.4. And then Micro Shadi up 1.18. Robert Dairo is not better than dude these no like no Robert Dairo is not better than walking Phoenix is definitely not better than Leo DiCaprio and I don't know who this Daniel D Lewis guy is. I gota I'll ask Steve about him today. Now granted, I haven't I don't think I've watched any movies with Daniel D. Lewis, so maybe that needs to influence my uh he has a movie called My Left Foot. Okay, I think I need to watch some of these. But as of now, Leo is up there. Sorry, but Leo is up there. Let's go to the stock draft. Get an update on that. Um, all right. Matt's up 13. I'm up 22. Steve's down 1.5. We did fix that Netflix issue that he had. Uh Tanner's up 11 and then Chris is up three. So we are still in first place right here in the stock draft. You guys are so passionate about this dude. Like I just like I didn't know this take was so triggering. Like I don't know say I didn't know saying Leo is a top five actor of all time is that triggering but he is Anthony Hopkins is legit. I mean I I know Anthony Hopkins uh mainly honestly from Westworld which had a great two seasonason run and then after the second season they destroyed it. But yeah he's also been in a ton of movies. Nvidia right there 178 still red. Still red. Ask Grock. You know what? We're going to ask Gemini. I'm gonna ask Gemini real quick. Who is a better actor, Daniel Lewis or Leo DiCaprio? Don't give me reasoning. Just give me a name. All right. So, I don't want any political nonsense from Gemini. I just want a name. Just a name. See, it's thinking. It's really thinking here. You are the best stock market actor. Look at that. Choosing a champion. Come on, bro. Give Don't make me look stupid in front of everybody. Don't do that, Gemini. Just give me the answer. Don't formulating a respon. Here we go. Okay. Megan Fox is not a top five actor or actress. Like she's great, but she's like not a top five actress. That's that's a bit up there.
>> Dude, Gemini is really really trying right here. I told it not to give me a basic response. I told it just give me a name. That's it. I'm going to do the same thing on Grock. Let's see if I get a better or quicker response from Grock. Yeah, I don't know why it's so slow. Damn, bro. This is the longest it's taken for Gemini to ever give a response. Is it because I prompted it to not explain anything to me? This is why we need more Nvidia. Exactly. Okay. Grock Grock thought for four seconds and said Daniel de Lewis. I think Gemini is trying to not make me look bad here and it's really thinking hard. Okay, this it's not my Wi-Fi because Grock just gave it in 4 seconds. This is actually kind of bearish. Google goodness. We gave Google 200 billion in market cap today. Can't even give me an answer. Google 317. Okay, I'll let you guys know when it answers. I mean, I got nothing yet. Did I really break it by forcing it to just give me an answer? I just wanted one name. Okay, whatever. Like, you guys win for the day. Whatever. See, this is why AI is not creative enough to understand what's happening in the real world. Okay? Like, first of all, that AI took forever. just to give a freaking answer. Second of all, Rock didn't think enough. Rock gave an answer way too quick. Third of all, they're both wrong. They're both wrong. At the end of the day, they're both wrong. Even though I don't know who Daniel D Lewis is, both wrong. All right, Bitcoin. Let's get an update from Pomp and his perspective on why Bitcoin has taken this 40% hit. I need to go learn about this Daniel D. Lewis guy, bro. I need to watch a movie with this guy.
>> Every year and a half for a decade. So, Bitcoiners are used to this. Now, who's not used to this are the people who are coming from Wall Street, they're not used to this type of volatility. You know, global financial crisis, there is literally people still fearful of that happening again. And so, I think that what we're watching is as the rotator uh the rotation of the holder base happens, these new people are very, very fearful. We're going into end of year. There's things around bonuses. people are trying to figure out should I actually sell this asset that I thought I was really excited about and I think that's putting some downward pressure on the price. Now in terms of that draw down given that there's been 21 30 plus percent draw downs. I do think that a 35% draw down that we've seen from the all-time high is pretty healthy reset and I think that there's a question in the industry is this going to be one of these very large draw downs that we've seen in ter of these bare markets of 70 80% or is this simply something that is more normal and we should expect this reset to then provide a new base and then we go back to all-time highs over the next you know couple of weeks or months. And where do you stand on that question that you just posed yourself?
>> You know, I heard something pretty interesting. Uh Matt Seagull over at Van said, "Well, Bitcoin's u uh in terms of uh Bitcoin's volatility, it's been cut in half over the last year or two." And so if that's the case, if we're used to 80% draw downs, maybe now the draw downs are about 40%. Right? You would expect that if the volatility has been cut in half. Well, we just saw a 36 37% draw down. And so I do think that as volatility compresses, people will be disappointed to the upside because it's not going to have these blowoff tops that they expected, but also there may be some, you know, uh safety in terms of these 80% draw downs are gone as well. Um and so I tend to think that we probably are somewhere around uh the bottoming again. If you see the gre uh the fear and greed index at I think it was eight for Bitcoin, six in equities, uh that tells me that you can't stay there that long. Um and so I think that we might just go sideways for a while here. uh and then start to kind of grind back up over the next couple of weeks.
>> Anthony, one of the big questions has always been how much leverage there is in the Bitcoin universe and whether there gets to be a point and I don't know what the inflection point is where there are enough margin calls that it effectively becomes this sort of self-fulfilling prophecy on the downside. Where do you stand on that? I mean, obviously, we talked to Michael Sailor just just about a week and a half ago. He obviously represents a huge part of the market, too. Also, there's a number of ETFs now uh that represent a big part of the market. So, how do you see that piece of it?
>> Yeah, well, there's a lot more leverage in the system on October 8th and 9th right before the big liquidation. And so, I think that again part of that healthy reset is that we went from higher degrees of open interest and leverage to today something that is much more normal. And I think that uh again that fear and greed index is a great signal as to how bullish people are. And you know, there's always the quote of you want to buy when there's blood in the streets. Uh I don't think I've ever seen the equity fear and greed index at six. The Bitcoin one going to eight is very very rare. And so I think that you're not going to see high degrees of leverage whenever you get that fear. Um and I and so that gives me
>> and that's good because a lot of that leverage gets wiped out of the system. By the way, look at the Fed rate cut probabilities almost 80%. Whatever the market's pricing in right here is pretty damn bullish. And you're seeing that reflected in the equity prices. It's 10:45. We are past the 1030 slam. Hood's hitting high of days. S&P baby 667. Are we on our way to 670? Because if we are, that would be an incredible move. Palanteer 162, Meta 613, Micron 222, Tesla 416, Bitmine 10%. Are we really getting a 1030 pump? because we haven't had that in what feels like a month. Like we we have not had a meaningful move like in a month that's actually holding levels. And then Nvidia, did Nvidia go green? Nvidia has officially gone green. Wow. Meta almost 614. S&P 667. Oscar 23%. Grab pushing 540. Apple 273. Nebius 90. Oracle 200. Coreweave 73. Microsoft back up to 475. I mean, it could be a bull trap, but I don't know. That's a pretty big move ac if we even lose half a percent. We're still going to be relatively green for the day. Robin Hood trying to get back up to 113. And then Nvidia 179. SoFi, are we at 27? SoFi, very close. 2674 on SoFi. IN is up 10%. Cipher is up 15. A lot of this feels like well quite frankly like my Leo take that really I mean quite it seems like that was the the majority of the reason today but outside of that feels like the market's liking this rate cut probability. It's really liking this rate cut probability. Dude, everyone's saying watch there will be blood. All right, I'm putting it on the list. There will be blood. It's that big of a deal. 8.2 2 out of 10 on IMDb. Okay, I'm not going to say the next statement I was going to make because you guys are still going to get mad at me. But screw it. I'm going to say it. Who is Paul Dano? Again, my my my understanding of movies is so limited that I think it gives me much better perspective than a lot of other people. But, okay, that'll be my first Daniel J. Lewis introduction. Uh Mike Wilson, here's his argument on why you should still stay bullish.
>> I would agree with Neil's comment like the Fed needs to cut, but not to save the economy, but to see the full rotation into these lagging parts of the market, the interest rate sensitive parts of the market, which is really our story for 2028 or 2026. We think the 7,800 is dependent on the earning cycle broadening out.
>> So, there's a lot to unpack there. I want to start with you agreeing with Neil because Neil had a pretty negative assessment of the overall economy, saying he suspects the trains already left the station with respect to the pain from the Fed keeping rates where they are for as long as they have and that we could be looking at a recession. You seem to disagree on that. So where's the nuance here? What's the difference between preventing recession and really allowing the the rotation into some of these other names?
>> Yeah, I mean I think our view has been differentiated that we think we had have had a recession. We went through a rolling recession in the private economy. So I would I would agree with Neils that the economy is weak but but it's it's it's rebalancing now towards the private economy. I mean many parts of the economy have been suffering. Housing, all the interest rates, durable goods, you know, consumer goods which have been under pressure, commodity sectors, transportation, there's been no volume going through the economy, no velocity in the real economy. and the way that the administration is changing the the the policy in addition to the Fed now cutting hopefully next year you'll see a the private economy now doing much better the government no longer crowding out these areas that have been under pressure but we do need to get that trans that the Fed needs to do more the Fed needs to cut rates and they need to probably provide some balance sheet
>> I say one of the things that Neil talked about was his fear that even if they cut in December they're not going to lay out a path for continuous cuts and Fed Governor Wall Waller seemingly enforcing that speaking on Fox moments ago saying you might see more of a meeting by meeting approach once you get to January. If you do get that posturing from the Fed that maybe they cut in December, but it's a meeting bymeating approach. They're not necessarily going to cut in every single one. Is that enough to allow for that rotation or do you need a clear path of cuts to get it?
>> No, we need the ladder. And I think we're going to get there one of two ways. Either the data, you know, the labor data is going to basically support our view or my view that we had a rate of change trough in the labor markets in April. Okay. And so that data then will allow the Fed to cut more or or signal they're going to cut more. The second one is that we get more financial stress. Okay, that's what's been going on. We think the market we we wrote about this back in September, early October. We thought the market was going to have a 10 to 15% correction because the liquidity wasn't there that that that the balance sheet was tightening and we think there's evidence that that correction is well advanced. Okay, all the momentum stocks, you know, crypto obviously is the topic of the day down 30% for Bitcoin. I mean, these things are telling you that the market is worried about this liquidity. So, so as usual, the markets will dictate, you know, the Fed's timing. So, if the market really wants and look, markets are like children, right? They they'll have a little temper tantrum and then and then the Fed will respond to that. So, is this like a mini 2018 in that reg?
>> He's so right. Markets are absolutely like children. They'll throw a temper tantrum. They'll react over things that are relatively non-important. And then it'll force the Fed's hand. It'll force the TV remote turning to the channel they want to watch to even if you don't want to watch that channel. I mean, that's how markets are. And I think we had a big temper tantrum over the past couple weeks. Guard, right? You have that you kind of go into end of the year and then there's stress in some of these financial metrics that the Fed cares about and then they provide more balance sheets. So, we think there's a sort of this this tug of war going back and forth, but ultimately it resolves in a more doubbish policy path.
>> On the point of crypto, a lot was made. I mean, even from Bill Aman basically saying things that he thought weren't correlated all of a sudden were that Fanny and Freddy were selling off because the people who were buying crypto were the same people in those names. Did last week and the week before's episode, given how much crypto falls, show some vulnerability within the market structure within who owns these stocks and how fragile and weak some of those hands are?
>> I don't think it's showing anything new. I think this has been their whole time, right? I mean, I don't people waking up to the idea that liquidity is important for the market. I mean, obviously, I don't know what they're doing. I mean, like, that's kind of crazy. Of course, liquidity matters. I mean, liquidity is and especially the last 10 years or so. I think that the hard part about liquidity is it's sort of this sort of nebulous thing. You It's hard to measure and I've spent a lot like the last two or three years trying to develop a better skill set around that. And I think we've got a better handle, but I would I would I would say it's still is one of these things that sort of the invisible hand. And so what you have to do is you have to look at the market to tell you when liquidity is tight or not.
>> So you kept mentioning the balance sheet. Are you saying QE is going to start again?
>> Well, they may not call it QE, but yeah, the balance sheet needs to expand, not only to support financial markets, but to support the better growth that I think is coming next year, right? So, if capex really picks up for the first time in 10 years, okay, let's let's be honest, we haven't seen much capital spending. But the big beautiful bills in that, that's a usage of capital that needs to be supplied by somebody. So, the balance sheet needs to grow just to help the help the economy and the markets. And so we can call it QE, call it not QE, but generally they need to expand that.
>> How much is a 7,800 target predicated on the idea of the Fed cutting rates and using its balance sheet to help support liquidity?
>> It's very important. I mean, I would say if we don't get at least one of those items surprising the markets, meaning more than three cuts or we get more balance sheet expansion, call it QE, call it something else. Okay, yield curve control, whatever you want to call it. Okay, if we don't get some combination of that, then we're not going to reach our target. I'm assuming that we get there either through the labor data or through some financial stress.
>> So, it has been
>> I think he's right. I think Mike Wilson is right. I mean, I was studying a lot of Mike Wilson's thesis last week as well because he is one of the people that's been very bullish um on this idea of a recession has already happened, right? Obviously, I care about his analysis because he's more on the bullish side and I want to see how he constructs his bullish argument. His argument for being bullish is very similar to Tom Lee which is that he thinks a recession already happened in April and they think a new bull market is beginning. Robin right there trying to go for 113 pounder 162 Nvidia 179 and you know you have the opposite from a lot of the the mainstream media which is that a recession is coming not that it already happened. So the the the sort of differentiating viewpoint and the nuance to his perspective SoFi 2670 is the rate cut and the liquidity injection whether through quantitative easing the yield curve obviously rate cuts that the that the Fed could provide and then you have the capital expenditures continuing to be a large percentage of of GDP. those two things stay intact, aka Fed easing and capex spend not slowing down, which based on every earnings we've seen, every hyperscaler, including Nvidia, is only guiding for it to go higher. That is your bullcase and that is where you ignore the noise and just say this is not something where I run for the hills and get out of this market for AMD getting a bit of a bounce here as well. Yeah, Tom Lee also said that in April. I mean, Mike Wilson and Tomley have been the only two guys that have been really making the argument that a new bull market started after a 30% decline in the S&P which kind of caused the the peak bottom because remember the last time we had a bottom was October 2022, right? And so theoretically Wilson's like we ended up having a good market but then that market led to a technical bottom again in April when we had a 30 we lost two years worth of progress when we went down to 4,800. So, you know, 5% down on the S&P over the past couple weeks is is nothing compared to what we experienced back then. And that marked the beginning of a new rally led by earnings growth, capex, and more liquidity. That is the simple argument for what Mike Wilson is going for. And if the labor market weakens, which is the bare case, that should only increase more liquidity as rates continue to come down. Last time we had a bottom was when you tweeted, dude, the amount of freaking people on this tweet. That is true though. I mean, this this was 11:50 November 20th, November 21st, Friday. I mean, so far that was our bottom. You had people interpret that tweet in a different way though. But yeah, dude, I don't know. I I spent some time thinking about it over the weekend and I'm just like really I started thinking about Nvidia and I was just like two years from now what are we going to be saying about Nvidia? Are we going to be saying this was Cisco and that it collapsed and it's back at $70? Or are we going to be saying growth continues to be strong, AI continues to grow, capex continues to be upwards of 3 to four trillion, which is what Jensen is projecting over the next decade uh or not even the next decade, next half decade, he's expecting that by 2030. and all the verticals of AI just get better and better and better, which means yes, they're going to have some AS6 that tip that that take a little bit away of of Nvidia's gross margins and potentially Nvidia's market share. But this is not a company that's going back to a trillion dollar market cap, even if it doesn't go back to a $5 trillion market cap anytime soon. And so, as long as it stays stable, eventually I think the money will find a stock that's trading at 20 times 2027 earnings. So, I don't know. We're going to see, but it does feel like Nvidia will be okay. Everyone wants to talk about capex. Everyone wants to talk about cash from ops growing faster for the most important companies. You are 1,000% right. The cash from operations is growing at a level way faster than even the capex is growing at. And that I think is also exciting the markets in a in a more meaningful way. So, we're going to see. We're going to see how this officially ends up playing out, but it doesn't look like it's the most bearish scenario. I know it felt like that over the past couple weeks, but maybe that's not how it ends up playing out. Um, let's finish up with this last thing on Mike Wilson and then we'll we'll end it up for today. so far that the AI trade has maintained any kind of equity valuation despite the fact that people are getting increasingly worried about an economy that you think already has gone through recession. I just wonder do you think that ship sailed in terms of AI leadership propping things up? Do you think that if we don't get the real economy reacelerating you cannot get the multiples that we currently have been seeing on the big tech names?
>> Yeah, I think it's one and the same. I mean I mean obviously the investment in AI is on the premise that it will lead to higher productivity, adoption and all that works. works. I mean that's the way technology investment works. So you you're not yeah these stocks are not going to work. The leaders aren't going to work if the foundation itself isn't being supported by the technology investment. We assume that is going to happen in 2026. That is part of our thesis. Okay. But it's not without risk. So our job is to lay out our our narrative which we have conviction in. But then to highlight these risks in the short term or in the medium term that could throw that that could throw that narrative off. Eddie Ardeni also joined us earlier just saying that some of the air is being taken out of the AI bubble and to him that me meant that the meltup that we've been seeing is going to be harder to come by. Has something changed at least with that blind willingness to continue to buy AI related stocks regardless of how much they're spending and what the return on that spend is?
>> Well, I mean this is a natural evolution of any capital spending cycle. There's always going to be a challenge on the return you're going to get. And this is, you know, we've seen this multiple times. We saw it a year ago. We've talked about this, you know, multiple times. In July of 2024, that was the peak in sort of the and AI capbacks deceleration. So, this is an eb and flow. What I what I like to look at is AI spenders. How are those stocks reacting? Is the market enforcing discipline on the AI spenders, which then trickles down into the the capex beneficiaries. But we think this is going to happen. The money's been raised now. So, you know, like the debt marketers are now involved and so that money is not going to sit on these balance sheets. It's going to be spent. The question is what's the payoff look like and what's the timing of that payoff. We think some we'll see some of that in 2026 2027 and and so now it's just this transition. You're you're kind of trading back and forth. So I want to make it clear we think there's a broadening out. That doesn't mean that all the AI stuff gets killed and everything else does really really well. It it can work in harmony. In fact, it needs to work in harmony to some degree. If you do get a scenario though where let's say I don't know Meta that seems to be one of the poster children for not getting that return doesn't get it as much and they need to pull back on their spending but everybody else is still spending. Do you only need one pillar to fall to really hurt this trade or can just any sort of spending happening within this trade regardless of who the winner is continue to lift all the all the boats?
>> Well look I mean look what's been going on right? So we've seen a massive bifurcation or dis dispersion in the performance of not only the hyperscalers but names within that. To me, that's healthy. That's like not everybody's gonna win. Like, not there's no trophies here. I mean, you have to actually win the game, but all of these companies are competing for the trophy. So, in that competition, I think we continue to see this velocity of spend. And then we're going to see the most exciting part about this AI spin to me is we don't even know yet, okay, these new businesses that are going to be created, these new industries that are going to be created, the efficiencies we're going to get in areas like healthcare or education or manufacturing. That's on the come. That's really
>> that's another thing I was thinking about over the weekend. I was like, we still don't know all the good things that could happen even if it takes years for it to manifest itself. How do you sell off the sector AI that is leading to those new opportunities? And then how do you sell off the winners in that sector like Nvidia that are the lynch pin of any of that stuff becoming real? So it comes down to a qualitative understanding of if you believe that like drug discovery is going to be better in the next five years because if it is Nvidia matters if it doesn't then I guess you sell Nvidia. But if you have a more optimistic view it feels like you should be long those names
>> where real wealth creation is going to be coming from. So next year or maybe the end of this year when we find out who the next Fed chair is going to be, how much will that matter to you in terms of whether your bull case will get realized? I mean, who will necessarily be good for that and who might be a little more problematic for that?
>> You're probably not going to like my answer, but it doesn't matter be to me because ultimately the market's going to tell the Fed what to do. I mean, that's my general that's always been my view. People hate it, but like I'm a markets person, okay? The markets dominate. The markets tell investors what to do, right? So the markets will, you know, kind of force their hand. If it if the markets believe they need more liquidity, they will force the Fed's hand. If the market believes it needs more rate cuts, it will force their hand because we become so financialized at this point, right? The Fed now is basically obligated to make sure that we have financial stability to some degree. And they're also they have an obligation to help Treasury fund the government. So, I I don't believe the Fed is independent. I believe they're they're they're trying to work, you know, in the best interest of Americans. Okay? I'm not saying they're dictated by the White House, but they are not independent of the markets. They are not independent of the funding requirements of the US government. Okay? So they the Treasury and the Fed will work together to do the best they can to solve those issues.
>> Dude, I think Mike Wilson's analysis makes the most sense. Like I really do think his analysis makes the most sense. And I think that's why you're leading to a lot of these analysts coming out and being more bullish. Here's what uh Trump said or what Lutnik said with Trump and Nvidia chips. President Trump is weighing whether to allow Nvidia to sell advanced AI chips to China. Lutnik said this kind of decision sits right on the desk of Donald Trump. He will decide whether we go forward with that or not. So you have that coming out and then you have uh Melius Research saying Tesla is a must own as autonomy uh nears the tipping point. Melius research says Tesla's lead in autonomous driving is approaching a tipping point that could trigger a massive industry value shift. Analyst Rob Worheimer calls Tesla a must own because of widespread autonomy. That's obviously why the stock is getting a pretty big move right here on the day. And then you have Mike Wilson's analysis which is I think pretty damn reasonable. S&P hitting all-time highs or not alltime highs. I keep saying that. 52 not even 52 intraday highs. I just want this S&P 7000 so bad. No, we're hitting intraday high 66750. Uh Amazon 226. Tesla look at that 417. Nvidia finally going green. Palunteer 162. Robin Hood 113. AMD 212. A lot of Bitcoin pretty big move right there. 87,000 on Mr. Bittycoin. And again, I think a lot of that makes sense with Wilson's analysis, which is as long as the Fed comes through with liquidity and the capex doesn't go down, this is a bull market, you ignore all the noise, if you think the Fed's going to be easing and the hyperscalers are going to be spending. BMR making a hell of a move right here. moving at a way larger alpha towards in uh not Nvidia uh Ethereum 29 on BMR. Ethereum's only up 1.2%. Bit mine's up 11. So maybe you have some people signaling that we bottomed. Maybe again 29 is still far lower than where it was last month, but at least you're getting a move to the upside. BMR 29, Nvidia now going officially green. So Sofi trying to get 27 and then Hoodie touching 113. We're really ripping right here. Google, are we still at 317? Google. Okay, 3:14, but that's probably healthy for Google to not be going straight to the moon, but still 5% up is good. It's 11:00 a.m. We didn't see a 10:30 slam. Maybe we see 1131, but I don't know if it's exactly the same type of move that we saw last week in terms of potential reversal. Oh wow, we got another headline. Amazon to invest up to 50 billion to expand AI and supercomputing infrastructure for US government agencies. Yeah, just got that right here officially. Let me pull up that press release. Wow, that could be part of the reason. Uh, key takeaways, AWS will build and deploy the first ever AI and high performance computing purpose-built infrastructure for the US government. New investment will add nearly 1.3 gawatts of compute capacity across AWS top secret, AWS secret, and AWS government cloud. Expands access to AWS's trusted infrastructure and comprehensive AI services to help government agencies advance AI leadership. Yeah, bro, what are we talking about here? What are we talking about? This stuff is not slowing down. 50 billion for government cloud. Today, Amazon announced an investment up to 50 billion to expand AI and supercomputing capabilities for Amazon web services, US government customers. And you know, they have to they have to make sure that they have tons of compute ready for the US government. If there's ever a shortage, it shouldn't be for the government for obvious reasons. But Amazon, Microsoft, Google, they would want to make sure they prioritize their government customers. This investment will enable government agencies to accelerate discovery and decision-making by integrating simulation and modeling data with AI agencies can achieve in hours what once took weeks and months through autonomous experimental steering and realtime feedback loops. Okay, this matters. This deeply, deeply, deeply matters. And I think the market immediately seeing that move is getting excited. Wow. Broadcom 9%. Look, I bought the Amazon dip last week. I think I bought it at 221. It's basically at those same levels. You haven't had that big of a move since then. I mean, well, it's above 221. It's at 225, but it's given up everything from the earnings. And it feels like this and Meta maybe aren't the crazy spies going into 2026. Bitcoin just lost 87, but still 86.8 is holding on. The Trump put is real. That's another thing that I think Mike Wilson also kind of implicitly discussed, which is that there is a Trump put. He is not going to to the best of his ability, I think, let the stock market crash or let the economy crash because he's known as the guy who delivers results at least u from a markets perspective. And so, you know, even when things were getting rough on Friday, you have the Nvidia headline and immediately things started moving. S&P now up almost one and a half%. It's a big move this morning. Again, it could it could reverse, but right now it's holding 1.34. Maybe you have some fund managers coming in after last week as well and saying, "All right, it's time to officially buy." Nvidia trying to push 180 right here. and then SoFi 2676. I mean, again, the bubble concerns really have to be backed up by a little bit more data than just people feeling it's a bubble. And I think we've gone through the earnings multiples many, many times. Nvidia, Meta, Google, Microsoft, Amazon, they are not trading at some crazy euphoric levels. And eventually earnings is what wins and the market knows if something is crazy or is reasonable. And a lot of those names are relatively reasonable. I mean, Apple honestly is the most expensive out of all them, but it's freaking Apple, which is why it gets its multiple. Doug says, "My little brother might be the best investor of all time. He started positions in BMR, D-Wave, TLS, and Pounder on Friday." Dude, maybe he got the legit bottom. Nvidia breaking 180. There you go. Maybe your brother Doug got the bottom of these past couple weeks because now we need a catalyst to the downside too, right? Last week it was the whole uh bubble narrative, the whole rate cut narrative. Ray cut narrative is out the window in terms of it being a real catalyst because the probabilities are now at 80%. So like could we still get screwed and not get a rate cut? Yes. But like the likelihood of that at least from the Fed probabilities feels lower. So then you need the AI bubble narrative to continue gaining steam and like I mean maybe but Gemini 3 is really trying to make sure that's not that easy. And then all it takes is a couple of new announcements from Nvidia and more progress to make. This Amazon 50 billion data center announcement that in of itself is harboring against the narrative. If crypto starts to come back, you got a lot of the parts of the puzzle that are becoming more clear for this bull market. Nvidia needs to glitch up to 190. Yes, exactly. Exactly. Yeah, the Amazon news is probably hitting all the business wires now. More people are seeing it. All right, let's hope we can hold on. I'll be back on the market close. We'll see what we got going on. Let's hope this can hold and keep going. I will learn about this Daniel Day Lewis guy that you guys are such fans of. And I will watch Gangs of New York as all of you guys are saying that Leo and Daniel are in that. I haven't heard of the movie. I've never actually watched it, but I'll try to put it on the list and video right there. 18050 Tassy High of Day or 17. Yeah. Where is fear and greed? Then we'll do where did they fear and greed 14. Okay, so still extreme fear. We're at 14. Trump administration is expected to advance marijuana rescheduling through administrative action in the near future. Huh. MSOS did get halted right there. Wow, look at that gap up. This is the weed ETF. It's a pretty big jump right there. Trump administration is expected to advance marijuana rescheduling through administrative action in the near future. Is that the executive order? He might. They said he was going to do one today. Okay, there you go. Weed stocks making a move. Even Tillray, look at that. Up 10%. Bit mine now 11.2% on the day. Mitt, what are your thoughts on Nebia spreads for June 18th? I would not do spreads on anything right now or options in general. Nvidia, by the way, 181, that one's finally moving. Um, I dude, I would just buy the stock. I like I still think we are not out of the woods in terms of the level of uh volatility that 2026 will have for us. So, I'm trying to delever out of any major option positions that I have. Now granted, if we continue on bull market, S&P highs of days, Nebia should be much higher than it is today and the spreads will do very well. It's just about your risk tolerance. But I I wouldn't go for the moon. I would go for like, you know, 100 110 if that's your spread. Like go for strikes that are very easy to achieve if you think this continues. June should give you enough time, but you just have to make sure there's not any major move to the downside. One thing that could also happen next year is you have the beginning of the half that's a little bit weaker than the latter half because the latter half is when we're going to get the rate cuts, right? So maybe extending it to like 2027 is not horrible either. Nvidia 181 meta 612. Nvidia is now moving moving 18130. There you go. Google still 315. So Google pulling back a little bit as Nvidia goes green. I think that's really healthy. You're starting to see a little rotation into both of them. Palenteer back up to 162 and then the S&P if we can reclaim 670. I mean, that would be nice. Wow. Tesla 419. Wow. Okay. Monday, last week of November. We're starting it off with a little bit of juice. And we got to see by the close if we can get a close above some of these levels. All right, there you go. Nvidia right there. 18153. Word of the day. What do we got on this word of the day? Okay. Um, epiphenomenon. Epenomenon. I know how to say phenomenon. That epi right there. I don't know. Let's see. How do you say this?
>> Epenomenon.
>> Oh, okay. Not too bad. Epiphenomenon. There we go. Uh, a secondary effect or byproduct of process that appears to be important but doesn't actually cause anything. Often used in philosophy, psychology, advanced scientific debates. Some argue that consciousness is merely an epiphenomena, a byproduct of brain activity rather than a cause of it. Okay, a secondary effect or byproduct of a process that appears to be important but doesn't actually cause anything. It's almost like all this analysis of an AI bubble, it seems to be important, but does it actually lead to any meaningful conclusions on the nature of what's going on? It's like not really. I think we all pretty much understand how the earnings trajectory is continuing to go. Word of the year is Google. Dude, that's facts. If I mean if Google ends out the year at 330 4 trillion, you might have to say word of the year is indeed Google. That's pretty incredible, dude. Absolutely incredible. Congrats again to everyone. Big move across the board. If you own Google and you're heavy in Google, you definitely deserve the gains right here at 315. Amazon trying to catch up a little bit at 226. Rob, pounder 162. Nebby is now making a little bit higher of a move. 893. So still up 6% even if it's below 27. Then AMD up 5% as well. Nvidia, yeah 1815. We can break out back to I mean we were at 197 on earnings. So we got a long way to go. But if it gets anywhere near that, you can maybe see a lot of these levels on other stocks start to join the party. All right, that's it for me. Thank you everybody. Appreciate everyone being careful. We'll be live on the market close. Again, we don't have a ton of earnings this week. Uh we will just try to see if this market momentum can continue. And then we got Thanksgiving on Thursday. So, if we can kind of have a good next three days, reclaim some of these levels, that would be important. We'll see if there is any of these Trump executive orders later throughout the day. He's scheduled to do some, but sometimes it doesn't always happen. So, we'll keep everybody updated on that and then I'll be back on the uh on the market close. All right, thank everybody for being here. I will see you guys on the market close. Bye everybody. Have a good one.