Everyone Good, today is today's a day say a little things people live in life in the world and we're can't three things light and and the light and the light and and the but we think we all things every person's life all leave to be the can one of the people how people how people and how much there sometimes it's but if you see you see you know how how it how it's how how how it's and often would be very quite and In these years, we people have been we've been we're young when young at a very hot the TV called Benjiebu's Now, back back and look at the movie actually is it's has played a life and it's some of some of time money is money and but money is money is one money not not but the This just simple, the big white-haired became the whole 30-year the whole the whole the country the community this word said a point that's all the people, we're going to make money, to make money, and to make, we're to get to work and we need to work, but the question is, out to eat, sleep, and sleep, and do you do things, do you know to do you get to work and whether it's eight hours, or nine or nine and you have a So, people all want in in the end up earn a little bit more earn. This just in one from ten-bought, to go-kau-court, to choose-the-job-road, all be-seem-the-the-cuit, to be the big-the-time-same to earn-kind more. America, a year-o-o-law-go. Many-the-law-ta-old people like children to know-each-eat. But not every person do you have a time to get-eat-eat. Today's morning, up to see CNBC, this is a broad-to-taxing, and the media media. I saw a bigot-see-yenture-by-the-building "30-year-old makes over 300,000 a year in the hospital without going to med school." "Nain' 30-seye, "'many'er' even "'in' got a year's' "'my'en $30,000, "'mary'n, $30,000. "'This is a poor-pout-nue-hide "'their-old "'their-old "'how-a-poh-cure-old "'what-a-cure-law-hout-old "'the-a-cure-so-cure-cue-cure-cuehought-cue-could-cue "'the-sue-sue-sci-o-cure-cue "'the-cure-cst. This is a new child's story and very very and really and I'm after I'm I'm I'm going to make show and everyone and I'm a pu-p-p pothed young people just year, year, year-sing over $30, change to be money, and I'm money, and I'm money, And to earn this year's in the in the United States, even in a total-to-do-do in the high-souloo-cunty. The more important is, he never to know that many students pay on huge-ewe-d-dye-sue and not to name MBA. He had a short-pink-quy-to-sort--sort-a- Radeghazegas. His story, just like a new-sign-sertie-deser full-shrie-being, full-shrouye, full-shrine-shroumine, and full-shing-ly. Next, we'll let's let's see this story, look, can't people, people-tong-ren-kind- can from his life learn from his experience in the experience. When you say to wisdom, many people might just think to the those those people that are being being being being being people but they're their their their our we in the we get to the is we we need to we want and that often is that that people and people and So NBC's report, though not much, but information is a lot. Every detail, all we need to take to try and to wadget. In the whole, Chabelli's choice can can be three-dapel, this three-bue, it can say, it can say, it's, it's a three-gee-tale. His first step is a strategic-sioner and job-easure- and degree. The show at the time, we're talking people's the time. In the first of the start, this can say is a big of one way of the long, but by many young people hooters, and by many people whooshed. From the end of the college, Chabelli's the way of the type of very real-time this in a great degree, it can make it to make it very very kind of a great way He had long to understand, "EGyields,' and "Tovsys'"a.'" So, in a chance of the university' she didn't' "moburn.'" His family's young work.'" His Exhibit, and no money to name-shaven. He chose a "o'nong'a-o-kete-to-potonged-pot-pot-a-ture." This the first step, to get her with many school, by on huge of students' day-quered, laxed, their target, her own goal can't. His goal is a new one, who's "Tobey-Syslexia assistant.'" This job and a new-cheliorogist assistant, and get-tron-a-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A-A To do it, to achieve their career goal, he to do a two-year a mazscheo-suree. This isoherstsure way. This isohersts where he has to get a co-cue CAA's from-eat-zoned, fromer, into the healthcare-necue. This whole process, he's all need to do the free-go-a-haw-hshore-mant and high-strand of the university. Chabelli's successfully made out of his life's one-in-way-to-the-one-way-to-your-way. His second step-in to top-gall-high-in to-co-sing-stchee-moder change. Shoebysh-bittly, Chabelli, soon-talli, through a job-stead-in-s, become a man man-su-scii. He's at first work mode, like we're the most people, is a good-ding-concetime to get-culting-cum-cissed-a-cun-cum-cissed even if this fund to pay-cub-ding-cum-cissed his own-law, it's over $20,000, as $140,000,000, $1,000. In-Zezer's-Maping, in America, in a year, $1,000 to $1,000. Shibeli is how to earn $20,000? $7. in the report in a detail. He often do-do-job-out-job-a-band. There's time, he would get 24-hour to do-band's his own-of-the-half-old. He said, this is from-sautity mind-sait, sechew-chew-stead. This is a young-one-kind-old-kind-old-kind-heat. I don't get-weigh-the-right-kind-hack-up-should-per-one-hury-hury. So, to be put-stststchue. So to this chiquet kind, there's many people will beaum. We this day people, a lot of people, this day young people, also gaiting, and not free will. We're not yet, we're being able to work, and we're getting up, but we're in needn't, but we're in mind, and in front of the this is not just our people people only have the kind of just it's many people people people people who have been that's such a body is that he used to time and it was the time it the first the debt and that With many people, is, he didn't stop at Chalberti's done, it's at the least. he was based on the last year, he made-the-schooling, and her money-shelley, from a team-in-six-lawful-weree. This degree-in-lawed-all-a-win, More important is, he's now every week just work 40 hours. Or at the unit, in the end-sought-to-do when he's not-one, Chabellei said, if he's like like before that full-kind-and-a-pand, he's now year-sou, can be $50,000 million, which is $350,000, people, but he now don't want paying-mings to. He said, I want to make money, but I don't want to be my own money, but I'm, This is the state of We'll show We'll make sure Now, let's Again, let's get The 3rd, from the money-stleigh to a life funding to a year-send. As the SOUL's growth and work down, Chabelli's and life and life and life also, first, is his capital strategy. He soon rein-sue cashed debt- and it. in 2003 year, once-sing $12,000 million of student debt. This sum of it, is $87,000,000,000, $8,000,000, he would start to invest, and by the fee-cheon-so-loor of $1,000,000 to put-cuit-jerkings-zaching-zach-hru. This is a very high cost-fue rate and and the To this year's his total of his dollar $50,000 there's many people not quite many people can do that's their little his life their people than the people but he quite out of winning 99 of American young men Chabelli's in high-sou-steaden, but he be made up low-sou-bearing high-sou-be-rent-go-self-feet he and he knows to earn-eckon-re under-court-en- under-kind. To-goyer, still, still, can't have a giant-w-moyed Fon-Cau-Lah. The other is his life's His own life. He was at Fulolera work, he had been in the money but then decided to Zoo-Fang-a-Tor and then work-to-mah work-time and work-stice- He started at the all the from Fulololida to and then to and from Zosia and back to He found I feel like to enjoy this little life and he being work, he can't think of the world and then full their people and he young young and have money and it's there's there have there and not not not not not people on-bair, to buy-fong, to-eat, at a place and stay-eared and-e every day all the day-e a day-e-one-e year-fue-ean- he never that's-e he said. He said, he had never to any-of--the-of- life-of-a- time. He's like to continue to find-sore. Even, every year can't be many-year in-year in-year in-s-he-s in-he- And the last, is the most important is his state year-shund. He's from a secure-synity-chew-stead to be a chie-kue-mind-a-bbered work, become a good-de-pain-to-being-the-being, to understand-the-suechewscied. He's been settinged-goed a "210,000 million, "What'tow-money-day-point-dollar-point-day-point-year, But he gradually realized to bein'ing work, it's not the money, it's a sort of not a time. Now, it's not not just over a specific to be, not by it's set in a other to the money, and are more much to work, and much more and more that it and the and not, it's it's for the this people this own people, and Say NBC, this story's end of the story is Chabelli's a few words. He said, I'm now I feel if I'm I can't go away I can't buy her something or to buy something I'm I'm going I'm going I'm going I'm going to I'm to put down the I can't just This is Chabelli's story. He's like many poor people's people like low-key-point, even leang-che-dean. From right-sing, to get-to-the-first-fin-work, from pin-ming work, earn-tend-dollar, to a money-shing, to be able to $30,000, and to invest $50,000, from $1.00, from full-y-chew-haw-hurted to get-sson-court-cheeked to get-song-cou-court-the-the-cue. This is a person, a high-hound woman, in a short 10-year-n't-neux-year-old. In short 10-year-old, there's people who are people who are people who are the children's life? The way is the world. The world, but people can't do you know, You no way to foot the people's people, but you can go to people's going to the road. You're doing to go. You'll go and then you'll go to go. In fact, you'll go through. In fact, we'll put on a C&BC report in no, there's not, there's, "MBC'"BORNs'I,A,'ULI,A, dole, CAA, is a job, is the what's job? Why, how come this job? In the American's medical system in the white-car medical mede team is a big-tah structure. Tart-gare- on, of course, is ma-suit- they must have been there, we should do school, and we have been-a- school, and then, and also, and more, and then, that's- three-year-of- education, They are the entire mazure the full-suit person of the and the process of to create a vast situation. Mahmusts's's to pay-yawned long, and so, the money-suit is very good, in-bye-to-law in-shin-all-mere-of-a-shae For the cost-lure, and to give-est-the-cure -a-sue-sce should to just-seing to do-stonged to get-cuing the people's-my-to-ty-zion. This is the role of the role is two-lay-personmen to take one-like is mazzi-hruist, the other one is Chabelle's-in-a-som-since-in-mah-suitary. Ren-saint-mah-suit-sruly way-minds, with ma-sui-sha-suit-hru-hers all the different. Its' particular is::::::. In-kir-in-year-in-year-old, I'd learn two-year-shares, and then, through a re-send-sign-a-sac-suit-shoot, to get a major-suit-sruly, chis-suit-shrush, this is Chabelle's job-to-go-to-go-to-go-to-go-the-cest. From-Bas-Bas-XURSE, you'd like to be a mazzi-sci, the most, it should be 12 years. And to be a re-send-mach-scied "Their-cuitary, the next should be 6 years. Why is that Ratheser's jury's so high and to end it's you're just by the through the market to the state of so much over the people increase and do my money and the money the demand but the market speed up and can't The hospital's need to reassuring Ma Zay people to to make sure to make sure in the community. In Ma Zui's the medevice's the control and they can't do you, it's good great-to- money. Although in-z-Mahnshi-Sew cost, but for the hospital still than than the-you-a- more than- than-a--us- more. Renzzii's Jury's Rue Rue Rai Zee, but it's Ruehuryst but it's quite, the market and quite long-send, gonged, and it's not up, that would have caused it his high-sing, and a state-stead and it. Chabilly in chose to get right in the point in a point in we've been in the story can't I'm I'm I'm the one these five things that all over country and the first point is to do project plan not not not be not to get big and to Chabaii, not to read a university and never chose to be new-mer job and I'm a he's a new low low, and long long-of- end and long-the trade-of- school American in society for the need demand and But the US healthcare and the work and the care long-to-y-use-stsruly the job-the-counter job-the-exam quite-would-in. In the way, there will come-of-heaschew swissue, it would not not be seen people people who the second is to re-shunds their own-send- to the business to make from the market to-suit-as- change-shund- to-sou-s-sou-shoulds. The Chabaii's income $20,000 from $20,000 not because he's more than because he more than because he changed work from from the company from become this this gives it it's and it good it's and Many professional can do to this a lot like that the business and you should do you know and the can't do you do that the important the thinking change not not you don't make a point and a different your and and is to make your job, and it's to be in your work and in the work in the work for your job to be your work of your business, but your your job is your keyn, is your the core-shing the asset. The third high-sou is 7. Zee-liu is to turn-to-the-sue is to-to-o- point-e, Many people think if you're just to earn money to get in free of free of the story tells us that's the thought of that's the in the world, and it's money, and you earn the money money, you're doing money, the goodchew is always always is earn the money, and you're Chabilly, to go on the way of the way of the way in very clear. And, and people can't be free. The first is in a early-in-as- money. Get-chein' not-fey--fee-eat-e and lia-each is a toe to put-sie-o-lough to-e-o-est-eat-eget-eat-eget. The second-up, is, the next-stchchue and to-st. Chabelli's by the fee-time-point-soucest used to the this is a very great-laught-eat-eat-eat-eat but you're low-de-do all you should setting a lay-dard-b-b-dun-tru-due earn-due-due-dust and earn-d-tall-cun, but can't-pun. Put put the money put into within the money to get the money free of payable in the different financial sub-in- money to make you make money and then the third is prevent high-sou and cost income and Many people, "Wrown the more, even, even to more, they're their income, but got to do without the land of the he's "mongue and buy house, house, and buy money-boh, he's life, but, but, He gave his family to buy the money and he bought and he and he got money and he also and he had put money and he's a little money money and money money and can give you to bring you and long time for money in and not it and not it's No, no way of the low income, it's just go to the money, and it's just go to the money, and the freedom, will always be in the dream-the-thead. The fourth point, "One-Sense, the life-like, "'toldeatheight' "'is from chie-chewsign-type "'toeuf-suit-kind-o-sign-type. Chabelli, I first also also have chichue stanching and the people, he's afraid having to save and the money, and worry the new end up and so he pinn mean to pay pay mean to make and he got and the the mental and change from from from from from starting to get to get This is active. When his money got the money got to get used, his mind, her mind. He don't need to get to get back the time, he's he would make get back more to get money, but he chose to earn earn 20, but he from to work and then to make to make the work so that it's you have more safe, more and Pymn't life. This is from chiquet state to foo-suit-state transformation. Xichue state is that the money is always in trying to keeping to keep in line, full-and-re- full-as-ecent--sac-sand-ecent. Fusuf-sign-t is full-sent, it is full-scent, and in-sue and in-shr-shing, and in-n-he-sign-n-know-nly to-n-n-n-n-know-sert-. We many people, in the long-cheeky-eat in the future in fact that we're even trying to stop and not even can't stay-shoulde share life. Chabelli's story tells us, "twin' money, "twin' money is "'It's for an "'vuehacking' "'their $1.00s. "'Arest for a $1.0000% "'To buy-sook-kid-kid-kid-ehue and "'What, $1. The fifth point. It is the last point. Success and Fookeh's the core is the choice, it is people's the human's long. In the traditional point in time, in order, it's going to be to do a big house, to drive a car, but, and she briblete made-a-mine-mai-vary to start-a-moburned and buy carlian-of-moyed the Fontencora, and, He chose every place and where not want live in a new place he's he's He said he he's He's and he to say And so he not he not really not much resources or is you know how much and he own own So, I can choose work's and time. Can choose at the people and the people and the person can't try to find long time, and it's being put unhuis to work work, can make money, for money, money, for us people, This is this 30-year-old young human's life in shine-point-dent. He from-lein-che-poo, with his own own the mind, his own, his own, for his own life, for his life, earned a great-to-do freedom. Chalbert's story, is not yaw-belly-cue to. He is like we are the people like is like people like our people who not a child, he's not there's a person he's a person and he is a and he and a end-gues to be people people people say people say His success actually is the "Inchance of a success." He can't know the healthcare of the state-of-sing keyway, can't know different work-mort-a-lossed and the money, and understand the money, is a good and not is the motive. He's to money's attitude made me think to a one one of the American's author, C.S. Lewis, Many years, I in the in the world I'd have been book in the book of the book in the book in the there's a book saying, "What's the good use "mugn't money to make go out and money and and money and buy We're back to the time at the word, "Chairn't $1.00. But, but no, money is $1.1.00. Can you say, Chabelli's story, for this word for this word to say a lot. We're not, we're doing to become money, but is the end up to the money, and the end-the- freedom, and the end-of- like he- like he- in-of-a- time, to make-sus- to say, to be, Now I can just breathe. Now I can just breathe. Today I can't slow out. Today's morning, I've got to so much, now I'm saying it. Now I'm going to be able to you some inspiration. Thank you, thank you, I'm listening. Next time. Thank you.