I use AI to get me off my computer, not on my computer. And so the fact that you were at the gym, got asked to do something, and your disability be like, "Yep, go for it, get it done, and finish your workout." It's like a much nicer way to work.
>> I was able to just screenshot in Figma these two separate artboards of work that was already in progress. And doing so, I just pointed to those, had the bot do his work. I didn't even read most of this stuff. It produced three outputs, copy pasted what Ben [music] had sent me on Slack and said, "Think we got all these covered." While I'm on this call, work is getting done, which I really love. I think the fact that I don't have to do this stuff myself is a godsend.
>> Now, when I go somewhere, I can basically just send Grockbot a photo, a screenshot, or literally just the name of the place, and it'll figure out what the place is. It'll look it up through Google Play API and I get the right location and coordinates. It'll fix the perspective and remove [music] people and turn it into like a 3D miniature visual style that I use on the site.
>> AI can feel like a threat to the creative arts. Like look, your highest calling was never to design gradient fills in Figma. And what I tell people is welcome back to how I AI. I'm Claire Vo, product leader and AI obsessive here on a mission to help you build better with these new tools. Today I have John and Pong from the Grob Bot design team and they're going to show us two really awesome AI design use cases. One, how to build a beautiful custom and easy to update personal site that meets the bar of a designer. And two, how Grubbot was used to design Grubbot, including where Figma Pro can make your life at the gym and work a lot easier. Let's get to it. This episode is brought to you by WorkOS. [music] AI has already changed how we work. Tools are helping teams write better code, analyze customer data, and even handle support tickets automatically. But there's a catch. [music] These tools only work well when they have deep access to company systems. Your co-pilot needs to see your entire codebase. [music] Your chatbot needs to search across internal docs. And for enterprise buyers, that raises serious security concerns. That's why these apps face intense IT scrutiny from day one. To pass, they need secure authentication, access controls, [music] audit logs, the whole suite of enterprise features. Building all that from scratch, it's a massive lift. That's where work OS comes in. Work OS gives [music] you drop-in APIs for enterprise features so your app can become enterprise ready and scale [music] up market faster. Think of it like Stripe for enterprise features. OpenAI, Perplexity, and Cursor are already using work OS to move faster and [music] meet enterprise demands. Join them and hundreds of other industry leaders at workos.com. Start building today. Pong John, thank you for joining How I AI today.
>> Glad to be here. Happy to share.
>> Thanks for having us.
>> So, I am a big bot girl. Actually, we were just talking before the show last night. We did a ladies who Grockbot night at Andre and Horwitz. There were 900 registrants a line around the block. Grockbot is having its moment. And one of the things I love is so many people inside SpaceX AAI actually sharing really practical and unique use cases of how they themselves have found new ways to get work done, build software, do awesome things with Grockbot. Um, so how has it been, you know, the past couple weeks just been being in the middle of this sort of explosion in Grabbot interest? How does that feel, um, shipping a product like that?
>> It's really exciting. I mean, I feel like it's rare to have this amount of attention and this amount of engagement on something that a designer gets to work on. And I think um, we're learning day by day also from our users. I think there's a lot of questions being asked about us as though we're experts on the product just because we're designing it. But I think like we're learning just as much from the users, from uh people sharing their own workflows, um their tips and tricks, especially on X recently uh and from you as well, Claire. It's been really fun.
>> People don't know this, but before we started recording, we were actually scrolling through and prepping screen shares. And as we were going, all of us were like, "Oh, we need that feature. We need this feature. We need to make this a little bit easier." So, it's fun to be able to see the process of this product evolve as it has tremendous product market fit right out the gate. Well, Pong, I I know that you have a workflow that you want to show us. And one of the things I love about Grogbot and AI agents in general is it's just really opening up new ways to do old things and and easier ways to do things that we all used to do before. So, walk us through what you're going to show us and why you think Grockbot is the right way to take on this task.
>> Yeah. So, I have this pretty personal story. Um, I eat a lot of Chinese food and then sometimes when you get a takeout, you know, the rice comes with this white paper box. So, it's a right red Chinese temple on it. And then last weekend, I was looking at it and I had this random thought like where is this temple? Like, is it a real place? Uh, where is it? So, I searched online and I found it might be somewhere in San Francisco, Chinatown. And I was like, "Okay, let's let's find it out." Like, I went to Chinatown. I worked around for a while and I did not actually find the temple. But I took a bunch of photos along the way and there was this little produce shop uh setting fruits and other stuff. And I took a photo of it and later I was waiting for bus and then I used AI to turn it into a 3D clay miniature and I thought it looked pretty cool and then later that day when I went back home uh I plan to redo my personal website. I have procrastinated for that for a while and then I took that 3D grocery store and then I put it drop it onto the homepage. So it's a little bit of whimsical. It's fun. Uh the page is super minimal. Basically, it was just this tiny store and then some texts about me. At the end, I wrote something like uh last scene at JBC Market in Chinatown. And I was like, "Oh, this was actually kind of interesting because I've always had this problem with personal website that especially as a designer, you spend all this time making one and then you launch it and people look at it for like 30 seconds and then they leave." And honestly, even myself don't really go back to see it that much. So, I didn't want to make it just another personal website uh sitting there. I want it to be a little bit more alive and actually be more useful to me because I'm also kind of person that I try to like check in to places and then I like this idea of having a record of where I've been, who I was with, and like what I was doing. And there have been like so many apps on the market to do this. Like every couple years there's one new check-in app and then people use it for a while and eventually disappears. So I was like, "Oh, why don't I make it just my personal website? Why don't I create it myself?" And immediately I thought, um, if I'm going to do it, I don't want to manually do it every single time. Um, why can't it can't it just update itself when I when I go somewhere? So that's when I started talk to Grogbot. Um because normally even for this like simple small ideas I I'm not sure like what I need. Maybe I need a CMS. I need some kind of admin portal. I need to upload an image somewhere. I need to host a website. Um deploy it, store the code. And I'm like I don't want to build all of that. I don't even know like where to get it started. So uh I just want to test it how it works with Grabbot. I basically told Grabbot, here is the idea. Uh, what's the simplest way to do it? How can we make this work? And we just started building it. Um, there's no Figma file. There's no spec. Honestly, I didn't really know where it was going. Uh, I was just trying to build one thing and then look at it and then think about, oh, what if it can do this? What if it can do that? And then it implement it and then we get another idea. Um, so it was very fun just to go in with the flow and like trust the vibe. And eventually this idea turned into a check-in pipeline. So now when I go somewhere, I can basically just send Grockbot a photo, a screenshot, or literally just the name of the place and it'll figure out what the place is. It will look it up through Google Places API and I get the right location coordinates. It will process the image. it would generate a light version and a dark version. It'll fix the perspective and then remove people um isolate the facade of that building uh and turn it into like a 3D miniature um visual style that I use on the site. And then I was like, okay, location is one thing, but a lot of time more interesting part is the people like who am I with? So I added that too.
>> I was going to say that looks like Twin Peaks. I was like, is it is it Twin Peaks? Did I get it right? [laughter] It looks great.
>> Yeah, that was three days ago. So now when I hang out with a friend, I can literally send a screenshot of the place and a screenshot on my friend's social profile and the grabbot will take over the rest. So I have this check-in bot that specifi uh I specifically build for this workflow. It figures everything out. It turns it into a data structure that my website expect. Maybe we can try it now. Like if three of us
>> meet in a physical place, maybe a famous land landmark or something, you can name a place.
>> Oh, I'll I'll name because I live in Bernal Heights. So, why don't you say we're at Bernal Heights? Um uh I guess just called Bernal Heights Peak.
>> Yeah, there like a specific building or like a landmark.
>> Yeah, that's that's it's kind of like Twin Peaks. It's just a different it's another hill in San Francisco. Okay, since we are not there, but we can
>> Oh, at the swing. There is a uh there's a clandestine swing. You see it right here? Yep, that's it. Um that somebody keeps putting up and the city keeps pulling down. Very It's like a real point of contention.
>> Okay, let's see if it works. And I'll put your social handle and John's social handle there.
>> I love this pipeline. I have to take a step back while you're getting this to load. So I I think the hardest thing for AI to do is build a personal site that a designer will like about themselves. So just the fact that you were able to get to that point. I mean I've been a designer in a past life. I just avoid my personal site because I hate the idea of deciding something represents me and shipping it. So the fact that even you could get to something you like I'm very impressed with. And then the second thing that I think is so fun is you've made it really easy and low friction for you to keep the site updated in a really unique high quality visual way. Um, so I think that is really interesting. you know, if you had to like go home and download your photo and copy and paste in the X profiles and do all this stuff, you probably wouldn't keep the site updated. It just it takes it's too much mental load. And so, I love this idea that you've compressed all these steps that you would have had to do, you know, historically probably through some sort of CMS or pushing directly to the site to just a bot that has a very specific use case. um and and does this for you? I I'm curious while this is running, how did you get it to generate these 3D images so well and so high quality?
>> Yeah, so the pipeline behind it is like figured out by Grogbot. It would generate two images when light went dark because when I like when a theme turns to dark, I want the lights to turn on. I wanted two versions of the of the image
>> and then they have to be consistent. And then this was baked in the prompt. And I think it's interesting part for me is none of this is actually fancy. It's just a bunch of like pretty simple building blocks. Uh there's Google plays or Google maps and then there's image generation and there's some like structured data and then there's the website just render everything. And then Grogbot is basically the thing that connect all the dots together. And I think that felt a little bit of different to me because before I would have probably had this idea. I thought about all the stuff I need to do and then I think maybe do it later and I'll never do it. But here I didn't really have to know like what the final system was going to be. Um I just started with this like random photo from a produce store and then like one thing just led to another and Grabbot helped me along the way. um at the end of the day somehow I had this like check-in system running.
>> I really love this what um I'll give you kind of a really chaos reigns idea which is we had this woman Maddie Reese on um our um podcast recently and she opened up a personal API so that people could pull information about her and also post to to her site. You could give very select use of you very select friends some programmatic access to update on your behalf in case you forget. You know, you can make this a little bit of a social experience. You can see, you know, decide who you trust to do it, but this pipeline's so nice. It seems like very fun to to kind of make a social experience as well.
>> You're going to come full circle and make the next check-in app.
>> You are. We are. I I have a very funny my my husband and I have been together for a long time. We've started a lot of businesses and probably 20 years ago he was trying to do a social check-in app and he would liter I would literally he I would be at bars. We'd be friends. He would be at bars. He's like, "Can you please can you please check in check in on my app at this bar?" It's like true true bootstrap uh gorilla marketing back in the day. And now you can just tell your AI bot to check in on on your behalf.
>> Well, Pong, if you can get this connected to Swarm, I'm definitely going to plug into this as well.
>> I'm still I'm still an OG user of Swarm.
>> Yeah, I've been using it for a long time. I I do see it as a trend that people become more expressive and become more autonomous and they can set up their unique way to doing things to check in to record their life to like bring this memory in the in a format that only adapts to like their own preferences. You know, another thing that I want to call out for designers because again in a previous life I was a designer is I have considered myself very creative for a very long time and have a good sense of you know this um thing that everybody's calling taste but what what does good look like and uh what is high quality but I lacked some hard skills and really struggled with a spec a specific set of hard design skills I felt were very inaccessible. to me. So look, I can like round a corner radius to the pixel like the per I can like I can get kerning right like I I am a UI UX designer that I can do all day and all night. I cannot illustrate to save my life. I know what a good illustration looks like. I cannot do it. It is just not in my skill set. And so one of the things that I really love about AI as somebody who has a basis of skills um maybe strategic experience but not hard skills in specific practices is it makes my ability to be a more well-rounded designer um a lot more possible because it gives me these generation tools and these computer use tools and these deep like spikes in specific skill sets that let me pair it with the things that I'm actually good at and get a better outcome in general. Do you all ever feel that where you're like, "Oh man, in the past life, I would have never been able to do this like 3D clay render. I would have always wanted to, but I've had to ask my awesome 3D rendering friend to do this." Like, do you all experience that? Is that just me?
>> I think many people are discovering that it unlocks a lot of the skill sets that you once thought were inaccessible. I think both of us from my experience is a lot of motion work where I can describe it and and kind of even use my hands to point out what's supposed to take place but then
>> with prompting it becomes possible. P I'm not sure about you if if there's anything beyond
>> what you're showing. I I think the opportunity is like the cost of making things become so low that we can imagine something that cost a lot more in the past. Now it's so easy to do and then this opens new opportunities and combination of the things we can create. Yeah, I would say the things that I'm seeing a lot and I tell designers this. You know, I do think there is let's like call a spade a spade. AI can feel like a threat to the creative arts. Like it just can. People talk about it all the time. And what I tell people is like look, your highest calling was never to like design gradient fills in Figma. Like that was not what you were put on this earth to do. And so as a designer, being able to really go up the stack in terms of leverage, specialization, the edges of quality, the edges of design, delight, think about things like sound, think about things like video, think about things like illustrations and images. I just think lets people like operate at the highest level of their craft. Um, as opposed to getting stuck in the kind of junk at the at the bottom. um that you know is important in the foundation of building something really great but not the highest use of someone's like time or talent. As AI adoption grows, so do your company's security risks and requirements. New [music] frameworks, audits, and vendors keep piling on, but your team isn't getting any bigger. Most compliance tools promise automation, but you're really stuck doing all the work by hand, chasing screenshots, validating controls, and playing catch-up when audit season comes around [music] again. Vanta works differently. Their Agentic Trust platform is built to scale with you, not slow you down. [music] With over 1,400 automated tests across 400 plus integrations, Vanta collects evidence and monitors your controls year round, cutting your audit prep by 82%. [music] Plus, you can access the Vant agent everywhere you work. Whether your team is in Vanta everyday or living in tools like Claude or Curser, want proof? Over 16,000 fast growing companies like Ramp, Writer, [music] and Harvey. Save time and resources while scaling fast with Vanta. My listeners can get $1,000 off by going to vanta.com/howi ai. That's van [music] ta.com/howi ai for $1,000 off. Oh, look. It looks like it finished.
>> Yeah, it's done. And I think it's published to the website now.
>> Very cute.
>> We have this also capture the swing.
>> I love it. If you want a real Easter egg at night, you know, we have the secret guy putting up the swing and during the day the swing is the swing is gone because that's what's happening with the very controversial swing at the Bernal Heights Park. But I love this. How fun. and just something that I would have never imagined you could do before. This is so cool. You know, this is a personal use case and I think a really lovely one. But let's switch over to work stuff because John, you've been using Grockbot to design Grockbot and have some really interesting workflows you're going to show us.
>> Yeah, happy to talk about that. I think for me, uh, some folks have already read an article that I wrote that was how I design using No, no, no. how I designed Grockbot using Grockbot and I go over a couple of different ideas uh of how it's unlocked productivity for me. Um how it's really made some of the tasks that used to be really inaccessible or really boring more accessible and a little less boring. One of the ones I wanted to talk through today was on Figma Bro, which I also shared out as a uh bot template, so other designers out there who want to try it can use it. Hopefully you can help improve it and share it back with me and I can update it in my own rockbot. Um, I just want to talk through two quick use cases and that's the first one being on the screen right here. Uh, this is an actual prompt that I gave it using voice recording. Uh, so I'll just read it. Okay, here's the situation. I have a link in Figma as an example. On the left, I have a screenshot of a couple of icons. That's this over here that need to be essentially placed next to each of the bots in the exact same placement. I have the second screenshot which shows ones that don't have an icon next to them. So, take the icon, scale it up, put it in the same position as the rest of the bots that I've screenshotted, and ensure that they're in the same position, scaled up icon, so that I have a whole set of these. If anything is unclear, tell me. And the reason we needed this was because Ben was doing some community assets and asked me to put together something really quickly. It was uh 8:52, so I was wrapping up at the gym, and I was able to just screenshot in Figma these two uh separate artboards of work that was already in progress. one being from the icon library and the other being from the brand book and doing so I just pointed to those had the bot do its work I didn't even read most of this stuff but it produced three outputs and I was like great copy pasted what Ben had uh sent me on Slack and said think we got all these covered and then it made this little table uh I was still at the gym at the time so this is more voice messaging um but then it kept iterating uh maybe making it a little bit bigger rounding it so it looks good and I can check that it looks good in a rounded state. Um, and then eventually getting feedback that maybe we could play with the color and so applying that as well. And this is the type of thing that maybe, you know, wouldn't take super long in Figma, but now I'm just doing while I'm not even at my computer.
>> Can you just walk us through exactly how this is hooked up to Figma for folks that kind of just don't even know how this magic happens? Yeah. So, there's a Figma MCP which we use and is pretty effective uh especially if you just give the once you've made the connection uh give your bot the link to it and give it some very specific set of controls. In my bot itself, it has the skills and some specifics that I request of it. I like to have my artboards laid out, you know, side by side horizontally uh in uh maybe 50 pixels apart or 100 depending on the size of them. Uh, and I tell it all these things up front so that it doesn't give me like a messy file when I come back to it. It works really smartly with a template I found. And so from before I kind of had to direct it a few more times, but I have a second example that I can show you which is a little bit more precise with how I set it up.
>> Awesome.
>> And this was just earlier today. Right now it's around two. Uh, this was an hour ago where I was asked to uh create some marketing material for our uh, latest bot marketplace which is launching today. Um, and we want to highlight some of the primary use cases. Uh, we have the bots that are being provided to us by people, yourself included, Claire. Um, and we're highlighting some of these things in marketing material. Um, and so what I did was, uh, I'll show you what I did in Figma. It was up here. I made one quick template, and I labeled it for shove because he asked me for it. Uh, and I told the bot using that, which I linked right here. Uh, here's the message. Here's the template. um use our brandbook backgrounds and wallpapers and match the styling that I have, but apply it to every other one. And you'll notice that some of them don't have the the photo fully updated. Some of them do. Uh which means I need to go back and prod it. But um this just saved me the time of needing to go manually onto each site, pull down each photo, update each one, change the instance, change the background, change the copy. It's all done for me here. So while I'm on this call, uh work is getting done, which I really love. I think the fact that I don't have to do this stuff myself is a godsend.
>> And I have to say, look, Trad spotted right there. Claire's personal bot. Um, very, very popular one that has really changed my life. I love this because, you know, again, this stuff is so beautiful. And as as designers, what you want to spend time on is making these assets really great. you don't necessarily need to be doing production design, which is, you know, carrying it across different assets and and polishing in different versions. And so your ability to spend more time, I'm presuming, on the like foundations that make this system really extensible and then letting Figma Bro, love the name, um, let Figma Bro, Figma Bro and Tadbot would be friends, by the way. Um, let Figma Bro kind of like do the production work, I think is really amazing. And then for folks that missed it, you know what I tell people is I use AI to get me off my computer, not on my computer. And so the fact that you were at the gym, got asked to do something, you know, especially something like Figma that really does require like your human fingers on a on a on a touchpad or whatever to do it. And your just ability to be like, "Yep, go for it. Get it done." Um, and finish your workout, I think, is is so nice. It's just like a much nicer way to work.
>> Yeah. And speaking of on the- go, um the other bot that I want to highlight is uh Devbot or experiments. Both of them I kind of use interchangeably, but um the highle idea behind these is a lot of times you get an idea, an interaction or a layout, a specific type of design that you want to explore. Um but once again, you might not be at your computer. Uh classic shower thoughts moment where you want to capture something and maybe even get it to a certain level of fidelity, but you don't have the time and energy just then and there to do so. Um, which brings me to Devbot, uh, who works really closely with experiments, also over here. So, I mean, you're starting to see a pattern in the way that I work. Uh, this was also on the go. I took a screenshot of our actual mobile app experience, um, a screenshot of my bot called Slack search and gave a voice memo to the bot saying I wanted to make a specific type of prototype. So I described it all using voice kind of rambling a little bit but in essence it was when I share an agent we've been using this term of a snapshot a template. It's not the agent itself but it's a copy of it to give to another co-orker or friend or whatever. And so the idea was what if it would actually do a screenshot effect. If I click the share button it takes a screenshot shrinks down zooms back to the preview template. And I just had that idea wanted to test it. Gave it to the bot to run with. Um, and it talked to Motion God because there's a lot of things that I described that were things elements on the screen that were transitioning. Um, it had its own conversations. I barely even checked it once again until I came back to its work. And I'll just jump to the uh end state which is right here. Um, we had to recreate some of the components within uh the the test repo that we have. Um, but it came up with two options of what I asked for. The first being if I click share agent here, does a little screenshot effect, then zooms into it and shows some of the details. I could see the the routines of the bot and it moves when I switch tabs, shows the plugins, and then you can copy a link and and send it. And I asked for a little bit more of a subtle approach as well. And it basically took that and turned it into a version that just goes directly into the share modal. And so clever idea in the end decided not to go in this direction. it felt a little bit too derivative of kind of the iOS screenshot idea uh that originated this whole exploration. But I do love how easy it is to take just the concept that normally you would have to either prototype with the noodles in Figma, take the time to actually consider how it gets built if you're prototyping in code. Um describe it in plain words and say run with it, do with my description of it how you will interpret it and turn it into something that I can interact with. So ideas bot maybe should be the combination of what I'm using today as experiments and devbot. Uh but yeah the random shower thoughts can now become uh a real working prototype.
>> One one thing that you know again I've been in tech a million years and so in the past I am telling you some delightful amazing designer would have been like I had this great idea. We're going to like screen it's when we do share you're the screenshot effect. It's going to like feel so good. that it's going to like give people a spike of dopamine. They're going to love it. We're going to share more things. And what would have happened is you would have hit a product manager that says, "Not a priority. Show me the ROI. What's the OKR?" And an engineer being like, "I'm not going to build that stupid thing. I have tech debt to do." Or like a bunch of stuff. And even if you get through the gauntlet of both of those and you get it built and you're like, "Ah, never mind. Don't love it. Don't love it." People are angry. They're like, "We dedicated time. We prioritized this. It's like you don't deprecate any of these things. And so the thing that I call this like the trash trash can method of software development which is like building things with the presumption that it is totally inexpensive to throw them in the trash whether those are prototypes or things that you get to your customers.
>> And I think it allows you to be a lot more expansive about what the process of product development software development looks like because you're not always stopping yourself saying is this enough to justify getting it into the app? is this enough to bother somebody um to get it you know higher priority than this or that. And so for somebody who has built a lot of software in a lot of environments for a very long time that is the piece of products like this that really make me excited because you can iterate so quickly. You don't have to shut off that like creative part of your brain that says well what if this what if that. Um and you don't have to be stressed that you're quote unquote wasting resources. um when when you come up with an idea that you're not 100% sure of but want to see what it looks like.
>> Totally agree. And I think that makes it more fun to be a designer. Again, honestly, um a lot of the previous constraints, the parts of the design process and working crossunctionally that were a headache before um are a little less of a problem these days, like you said.
>> Amazing. Well, I love it. Just to recap for folks, uh, Figma bro your, um, design spotter while you're at the gym getting getting the reps in on your art boards and then experiment in Devbot. Basically, like take your shower thoughts, take your walk thoughts, and the implementation is none of your business. Let them let them cook. You come back to an idea, and then it's up to you whether or not you want to ship it or not. Okay, so this has been so fun. And to recap for folks, we've shown sort of like the personal workflows and how you can do kind of amazing things um that you wouldn't have been able to do before with very minimal toil using Grockbot as sort of like a development design pipeline. John showed us um you know how to experiment, design, do production more efficiently with Grockbot. Let's just take a step back. Let's go to lightning round questions. My first one just very quick between you two other than the bots you showed kind of like how do you think about your bots? Who are your favorites? How do you how do you organize them?
>> A lot of my digital life has been delegated to all different types of Grog bots. In general, I organize them in two buckets, life and work. So, I have a couple of bots that dedicated for each part of my life. For example, my chief of staff. Um, I manage all the bots, but I sometimes do talk to other bots. Um, but I delegate the things I don't know who to delegate it to to the to the COS bot. So I think last night I was asking it to buy some 3D printing filament for me. Um, so that's the plastic material that 3D printer used to making things. And what's interesting is
>> [clears throat]
>> um not only it can help you search, find and buy the item, you can actually train different task together like I actually once you are done update the inventory list because I keep this 3D printing filament inventory in notion and I wanted to automatically add this record. it purchased it for me and um I think that's truly the power of it is to like train different tasks in our daily life together and it give it like a higher task and let it figure out uh what the steps what needs to do maybe can learn it and then the next time you do it just tell it do the thing that we did last month and then even have have it automatically do it. I have an email manager which will surface all my action items. This was last night. I was checking any action items from my input uh inbox and then like there's some USPS delivery issued and I ask it to to help me contact them. Um I have the calendar manager who is become in fact to become my calendar now. So I'm scheduling someone for uh for the coffee chat next week and then most of my time today now I just take a screenshot of the conversation. It can be on any IM tool. Um, this one's on LinkedIn and I just send it and it ask you to put a placeholder on my calendar. Um, almost never open the calendar app anymore. Um, you can also put bots into a group. So, let's say in this example, let's I had this idea design a app that translate class meow to English. So I threw this idea into the group chat and then in the group chat we have a PM we have designer we have a engineer and then they start to talk about idea from their own perspective and it's so interesting to see like how this simple seed planted in the group chat and then now like derive new ideas around it. I even use it to prepare the podcast that we're doing right now. Um, I don't have a microphone and I I asked my IT bot who's like taking care of all my IT questions. Uh, what type of microphone I need and I only have this one. Does it work? And, uh, for personal life, it's replacing my news app. So, every morning 7 a.m., I'll receive um u a newsletter and it's personalized. I tell it I want to AI information. I want a news about AI that relevant to me. Um, I wanted to like have it do fact check um and then source the official um links as much as possible. And then this one is a legal advisor. So it's taking care of a lot of repetitive task. For example, I'm in this weight list for I'm applying green card. I'm in weight list for this uh visa bulleting and checking manually every month in a par. So I just dedicated this task to and then I give the link and it would go check it every month and then let me know okay where's the where are you are in the queue what's the waiting list um what's the data
>> I love it so it seems like you have just kind of like all the admin all the life admin you need to do whether it's shopping whether it's you know checking in on different status regular check-ins and then I love the idea of like I don't want an email anymore and I don't want a calendar anymore more. I want a bot to show me where tell me where to show up and that's it.
>> And so, you know, just just for folks watching this, again, it's like make it as easy as possible to take the task you're doing to the finish line, right? Like, you knew you needed to buy 3D printing filament, but you just don't want to open up the app, click the buttons, pick the right one, get sucked into the reviews, get distracted by the, you know, associated products. just like buy buy the thing or you know even calendar events you like pull it up and you look and you're like I have a conflict what do I do and you get distracted by Slack like all these things I think just allow you to kick off a task and pull it all the way through without distraction and just make sure that you get a lot of stuff done and I think the the breadth of of use cases here is is pretty incredible. John, do you have any that are different than this? like one or two that you think folks aren't thinking of or that uh are are a little different different than the average, you know, admin shopping one.
>> I do have some that are a little bit particular and one is just I just started a few days ago. Um I've been learning Japanese and the thing about Japanese as a language is there's there's hiragana, there's katakana and there's kanji and so there's different ways of reading one language. Um and recently I had the thought to just maybe communicate with um this bot which is just a Japanese practice bot um both in a way to uplevel my reading of kanji as much as possible but then have the pronunciation underneath it when I need it as well as finally an English response. So I just basically told it give me all three forms so that I can learn as I go in just regular communication with you. Um I was having it look for a specific book as you could tell up above. Um I was going to have it translate it but then it came out so I ended up buying it. Um the other use case is uh one maybe this very particular I think we're we're all aware of how um the American insurance system is set up. Um and for me it's not even that big of a deal. It's just knowing that it's possible for me to set up the bot to know my my insurance plan,
>> take any photo of a receipt or you know any sort of um doctor statement uh and just ensure that I'm getting the most bang for my buck. Um, and this one I, you know, half the time it doesn't even uh there there's nothing additional that I can get out of it, but it just gives me peace of mind knowing that I can send anything to it and and um know that I'm getting my money's worth.
>> Yeah. I want to give people I'm guessing kind of how this is set up, which is you're like, "This is my plan. Here's my coverage. Um, anytime I'm going to get a prescription or look for a provider or go to a specialist, like reference my plan and make sure that I'm making the best decisions." Is that kind of the high level what it does? And in addition, anytime there's an invoice or a receipt, I say, "Do I need to do another followup or um you know, am I getting the maximum savings?"
>> I love this so much. As a self-employed person who finances her own healthcare, um this is going to be one that I go set up right out the gate. Okay, last writing question. We're almost at the end of our time. I must ask because you have so many bots and they all have these personalities and names. You have Figma Bro, I have Tadbot. Um, when the bots are being silly, when they're when they're not doing what you want, how do you prompt? Are you all yellers? Is there some trick to getting your bots back on track?
>> Here's the thing about working at SpaceX AI is often times when you need to troubleshoot, they ask for your session ID. [laughter] And I don't want my co-workers seeing how I talk to my bot. And so, I've gotten nicer over time. I'll say
>> I reply with a lot of emotion sometimes but I think a useful tips is every time um you can ask the bot to memorize this so in the future if this happen again then just follow the script you learned last last time um so kind of distill and then iterate it itself um and then the longer you use it the better it become and more adapts to your needs
>> I love that great great tips both one remember who's reading your transcripts and two Just ask your bot to remember how to avoid the problem in the first place. You all, you've been so generous with showing this. You've given me so many ideas. I'm going to go back. You're going to get a brand new clairvo.com by the end of the afternoon. I am so psyched about this. You just gave me the best ideas. Um, where can we find you? Other than all over the timeline where bot is going wild, where can we find you and how can we be helpful?
>> I'm chronically online. Uh, you can find me at johnby, which is just my name.
>> Yeah, the same for me. I'm on X. Um, and it's lovely to being able to um post and talk about design of the grap out there.
>> Awesome. Well, and y'all go out and try it. Um, love truly it's been really awesome and regretfully has replaced my beloved Open Claus. So, I think it's it's worth a spin. Both of you, thank you so much for joining How I AI.
>> Thank you. Thank you for having us.
>> Thanks so much for watching. If you enjoyed this show, please like and subscribe here on YouTube, or even better, leave us a comment with your thoughts. You can also find this podcast on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Please consider leaving us a rating and review, which will help others find the show. You can see all our episodes and learn more about the show at howiipod.com. See you next time.