Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
today
Let's continue to talk about "The Courage to Be Disliked"
And the ideas behind it
In the previous video
We discussed the "teleology" proposed in this book.
How to transform people's real predicament
Reduced to a subjective choice
And happiness and unhappiness
It all depends on whether the individual has the courage to take off the sunglasses.
This seemingly profound concept
In fact, it ignores psychological trauma, social structure,
The deeper impact of external conditions such as economic restrictions
It also leads to a form of "self-PUA":
A person is not only responsible for his own misfortune
Even responsible for your own inability to change
This philosophy of attributing everything to internal causes
On the surface, it is motivating
In fact, it often makes people more divided and isolated
Especially important is
I think this kind of thinking
Actually
The underlying logic of many popular psychology theories in China
No matter what rhetoric they adopt
The Courage to Be Disliked
It seems to be promoting Adler's psychology
But in fact
This is quite different from Adler's own ideas.
Its spiritual core comes not so much from Western philosophy
It is better to say
More introspection from East Asian culture
Especially Song and Ming Neo-Confucianism and Lu and Wang's School of Mind
This can explain to some extent
Why is it so popular in China and Japan?
Today's video
Let's discuss this further.
Limitations and Problems of This Book
And how it is in the name of freedom
Another form of oppression of the individual
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
We say, "The Courage to Be Disliked"
Both are based on the opposition between teleology and causation.
That is, if you find reasons for yourself
It will be in a state of being determined.
As the section on “The Psychology of Courage” states:
“We humans
It is not affected by the theory of cause.
A fragile existence manipulated by psychological trauma
From the perspective of teleology
We use our own hands
Choose your own life and lifestyle
We have that power.”
According to this view
If a person gives himself misfortune
Look for external reasons
That is a lack of courage and a shirking of responsibility.
But as the book "Learned Helplessness" argues
If a person encounters an uncontrollable negative event
Take an internal attribution approach
That is, attributing failure to oneself.
This can lead to a loss of self-esteem.
Falling into depression or learned helplessness
on the contrary
If he can realize the limitations of the external environment,
Harm to others, constraints of conditions
This reasonable external attribution
It can protect his mental health.
Pull him out of the abyss of self-blame and guilt
But leaving that aside
The more important issue is
Why does a person look for external reasons?
Just not free
Is it just evading responsibility?
Let's take a simple example
In primitive society
People generally have subjective and objective
Interpenetrating ways of thinking
Just think
One's own subjective will, mental state, behavior
Things that can influence and change the natural world
For example, the Confucian concept of the correspondence between heaven and man, sacrifices to pray for rain, etc.
This is a very crude and primitive teleology.
Later, with the progress of rationality
People realize
This is not something that can be changed by human will.
Nature has its own laws
So, have humans become freer?
Or even less free?
In fact, it is more free.
Because necessity does not constitute an oppression of freedom
Quite the opposite
Necessity
It was created by humans to achieve freedom.
Why do humans create natural laws?
Because people want to gain control
Want to live more freely——
No longer dominated by wind, rain, thunder and lightning
No longer living in the unknown and fear
This gave rise to the recognition of the inevitability of the world.
The law of necessity comes down to the end
It is the externalization of human free will
Or objectification
To a certain extent, it is not subject to human will.
But in the ultimate sense
It is established by human free will.
Therefore, we say that teleology and mechanism
In other words, causality is not contradictory.
A truly advanced teleology must include causality
Rather than simply rejecting
Acknowledging the limitations of our will
This does not lead to incompetence and weakness.
It is the beginning of greater freedom.
Because only you realize your limitations
Only then can we transcend this limitation
Ignoring the real reasons
Freedom that only exists in fantasy
In fact, it is a deeper lack of freedom.
The same is true for psychological trauma
Trauma impairs the function of the prefrontal cortex
Make people react more instinctively and avoidantly
Only by understanding, organizing, and naming trauma
To restore a sense of control
for example
A person because of trauma
There are often some somatic symptoms
One day
As she recalled the key traumatic events
She would
The fear and anxiety that could only stay in the body
Symbolize
She used to have stomachaches when she was nervous.
But now she understands: "Every time someone wants to leave me
I will shrink my body
Because I’m afraid of being abandoned.”
This moment, the trauma of the past
No longer just an unspeakable
Inexplicable trouble
It becomes an experience that you can talk to.
Once we start modeling these experiences
Finding “reasons” for these reactions
We are using consciousness
Re-take over the unconscious activities in the body
Our body and mind begin to integrate
Here
We realize
The side of me that is bound by the environment
This did not make us more powerless.
On the contrary, it is stronger and more mature.
The book "The Courage to Be Disliked"
In fact, the emphasis
It is a rather crude teleology.
You can also say
It is a low-cost means of psychological comfort
The reason why we say low cost
Because it doesn't require you to consider the real politics,
Constraints of history, economy and social structure
You don't need to trace your personal history and analyze the reasons.
Just need to point out
Your misfortune is your own fault.
But you can rewrite your experience from the present moment
To achieve inner transcendence
This is indeed a low-cost, fast-growing theory
But this theory can easily become a tyranny against oneself
When it is used on others
This often constitutes a very severe criticism
for example
A few years ago, I attended a book club.
Participants have read the book "The Courage to Be Disliked"
There was a girl at that time
I was talking about the unhappiness in my marriage.
She said
She felt that her husband could no longer depend on her.
She had received help from her husband in many ways.
now
She felt her husband was no longer reliable.
She always adopts the method of growth, practice
Or words like inner independence
But she burst into tears as she spoke
Very sad
As a result, a psychologist said
Why do you put your hopes on your husband?
Always reliable?
You needed to rely on him.
And now you feel that your husband is no longer reliable
It means you have grown.
So now you choose
I saw his unreliable side.
You should be happy about your growth.
You become more independent and brave
No longer needing the protection of her husband
But I felt
This girl's sadness is beyond belief.
In her stories about growing up,
Behind the rational discourse of independence and dependence
There seems to be something unspeakable
then
I interrupted the consultant.
I asked this girl
What makes you feel that your husband is unreliable?
As a result, this girl
Later, a terrible thing was gradually revealed.
Her husband and mother-in-law
Determined to have a child
This eventually led to her unexpected pregnancy and miscarriage
This is actually very serious domestic violence.
And it is likely to be accompanied by other physiological,
Emotional and financial abuse
and the dilemma of being isolated in interpersonal relationships
This is nothing at all
The question of whether to grow and surpass
It's not just a simple relationship between her and her husband.
There are cognitive differences and inconsistencies in values.
This girl needs external help and intervention.
But in that kind of structural oppression and isolation
She may not realize that this is a serious injury.
As if I still have a choice
Just a common marriage problem
The consultant didn't realize this.
perhaps
Another reason is that
In such a discussion "The Courage to Be Disliked"
In the reading club
Courage, growth, independence, becoming strong
It has become the default narrative paradigm in this field.
Any emotions and thoughts
It seems that we must use this set of words to express
Expressing vulnerability and tracing trauma have become taboos
A lack of courage
So, this girl
They can only suppress and distort their own traumatic experiences.
Dilute it
Or rationalize it as "My husband and I have different ideas."
Such a problem
As if admitting helplessness and pain
Is avoiding one's own responsibility
So we say
When this statement is applied to others
In fact, it is easy to cause a
A more severe and repressive state
This is also clearly reflected in
In another passage in this book
In Chapter 4, "Have the Courage to Be Disliked"
The philosopher said, from the perspective of Adlerian psychology
Build horizontal relationships with everyone
That is an equal relationship
The young man said: How is this possible?
For example, in the company
How can the president and the new employees establish an equal relationship?
If I make arrogant comments to my boss
You will definitely be criticized for lacking common sense.
The philosopher said: "Observe your boss's words and expressions.
This is to evade your responsibility.
Irresponsible behavior
If you follow your boss's instructions
The work failed.
Whose responsibility is this?”
The young man said: "Of course it is the boss's responsibility.
I was just following orders."
The philosopher asked:
"Then you have no responsibility?
You have room to say no and come up with a better approach
You want to avoid interpersonal conflicts
Also to avoid responsibility
Only then do we selectively think that there is no room for rejection
You put yourself in an unequal relationship."
The young man said: "In theory, this is true.
But it’s actually impossible.”
The philosopher said: "But
You have established an equal relationship with me now.
Speak your mind without hesitation
You have to learn not to look ahead or behind
You can start here.”
The young man was convinced by the philosopher
This conversation is a typical confusion scene
The relationship between superiors and subordinates in the workplace
There is a clear power differential
The dialogue between youth and philosophers
It was originally designed as a situation of equal communication.
Of course, I think the dialogue between young people and philosophers
It's not really equal.
But philosophers use the latter to deduce the former
The ideal of "equal communication"
Promoted as a “realistic and feasible standard”
This is a serious confusion
In reality, most people in the workplace
It's not mainly because of cowardice or avoidance that we read people's expressions.
And often it's because they are in the power structure
There are real risks, such as:
Being isolated, suppressed, unemployed, reduced income, etc.
In most organizational structures
The responsibilities and powers of subordinates are not equal
You may have the right to express
But no power to decide
There is no guarantee of protection after failure.
Under this structure
“I was just following orders.”
It's actually a painful but necessary survival strategy
Some people may think that this is not brave enough or heroic enough.
However, my boss did not give me the corresponding rights protection
But I have to bear unlimited responsibility
If something happens, I have to PUA myself
Is this really a manifestation of taking responsibility for yourself?
The Courage to Be Disliked
It seems to be about Western individualism and free will
Its internal logic
It is better to say that it is in Eastern culture.
Variants of “responsibility first” and “duty first”
That’s why this book is so popular in China and Japan.
There is a reason for this.
Chinese traditional culture has always emphasized
Responsibilities take precedence over rights
The collective does not protect your rights.
But you have to do it for the collective
Assume unlimited responsibilities and obligations
Patience, self-blame, hard work, no complaints, no trouble
Seen as a virtue
But this morality
It could actually be another form of unreflective obedience.
Although "The Courage to Be Disliked" emphasizes the separation of issues
Advocate for individual freedom
Don't live to please others
However
When it sidesteps systemic injustice
When everything comes down to personal courage
It is actually consistent with what Mencius said: "Look within yourself"
It is completely connected
That is to say, look for the reasons in yourself.
It just uses the new language of "psychological growth"
It is worth mentioning that
Although Adler's psychology does mention courage
But Adler never advocated
Treating patients in such a harsh way
I would not even think
The trauma of the past is insignificant.
In his book "Inferiority and Transcendence"
There is a very similar case
There is a 35-year-old man
I feel anxious when I leave the house.
As soon as I sit in the office, I will cry and scream
Only when I get home at night
Staying with my mother is the only way to be quiet
So
Adler discussed with him his memories of when he was 4 years old.
And try to explore a
A job that can be combined with his main interests
Finally, the man was successfully cured
Have your own business
In "Inferiority and Transcendence"
What we see is
Adler explored early memory,
School, Parents, Adolescence
How does it affect the human mind?
He analyzed a lot of
Real problems beyond individual psychology
Arguing that society should be for individuals
Creating healthier growth conditions
For example, in terms of educational philosophy
He criticized the Austrian schools at that time
They are established according to the needs of the government.
Just educate students to be well-educated and obedient citizens
Protecting the interests of the upper class
He criticized the authoritarian education system in schools at that time.
Make many children
Trapped in anxiety and panic caused by excessive competition
Adler also mentioned
There is a teacher
Helped a child who was hostile to others
His approach is to make other students become friends with him
The child's behavior subsequently improved.
Therefore, Adler believed
Children should learn self-governance earlier
The teacher is just an assistant, an observer.
This will stimulate children's interest in cooperating with others.
That's it.
We can also find that
Although Ichiro Kishimi said that he had
I can't put down Adler's ideas
Can't stop
But his ideas are actually very different from Adler's
This is also the case for many Eastern intellectuals.
When studying Western culture
Very common misunderstanding
That is, they
The part about responsibility and enlightenment
More interested
But the humane and tolerant spirit in Western philosophy
But I ignored it intentionally or unintentionally.
As a result, no matter what kind of clothes their philosophy is covered with
It sounds very harsh.
Full of saintly colors
Let’s talk about this for today
We will continue to discuss this topic in the next episode.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!