Hi everyone, I'm Nicolola Tangan the CEO of the Norwegian so wealth fund and today I'm here to with somebody who is absolutely vital to AI namely the remarkable Jri Ul CEO of Arista Networks. Jri has more than 40 years background in networking so nobody is better able to talk about this than her. So Jri super to have you on there.
>> Great to be here Nicole. I I have a bit of a cold, so apologize if I sound nasal.
>> No problem. No, let's start with the beginning.
>> I don't have to sing on this podcast, right? So, we should be fine.
>> No singing. Let's start with Let's start with the beginning. Um, what does Arista do?
>> Yeah, that's a loaded question. So um Arista is building the world's most demanding mission critical networks which is high performance, high scale, low latency, high reliability, high availability, high automation, high telemetry. So it's a a lot of demands on across a lot of spectrums and Arista has emerged especially over the last decade to be both the pioneer and the leader in this.
>> I've heard that if you think um that kind of chips is the engine then the networking is the highway between them. Right.
>> Yeah, that's a good way to look at it. Um I think the chips fuel a lot of uh especially in this world of AI processing with GPUs, APUs, XPUs, whatever you call them. But as you process this, you you have to get worried about are you processing it to full utilization. And so, you know, if a car is rated at 100 miles an hour but can only go 30 m an hour because the the infrastructure cannot support going farther, then you're grossly underutilizing the car or in this case the GPU. So, yeah, we are the information highway to all accelerators, users, mission critical workloads, you name it. So let's say now I sit in my office I uh do a prompt on chat how do I touch your products just how what happens with with the sing
>> yeah so um we are very much behind the scenes this is something my parents always used to say what do you do because you can't see what we do and uh when you type in a prompt of arista basically what at that point we're doing is connecting everything to everything this conversation on this podcast is not possible without it so the traffic patterns of high intensity whether it comes from a user, a device, a workload, a machine, a server, a storage or now more and more the AI killer applications we connect and we do that through a set of switches and routing platforms. We call them leaf spine architecture where you can have multiple leaves that connect into an aggregate spine and these days you can also have an AI spine. So these are some of the world's largest high-scale platforms but we can all but they need to be powered platforms need and chips need to be powered with the right software and that's where Arista's hallmark has been its extensible operating system EOS where we fuel these platforms and networking connectivity with more and more types of data. We can deal with structured data, unstructured data, flow data and and make that all work through our purpose-built software.
>> And how is networking from AI different from what came before?
>> Yeah, very different. So just to step back a little you know the if you go back even 20 years in networking the internet was born through a lot of you know in fact the old days it came the TCP IP and all those algorithms came from the research community the arponet but then there were multiple protocols things like XNS Apple talk OSI IP TCPIP became the worldwide language of internet communication in in the 2000 era in the 2015 15 2020 era that wasn't enough. What people were starting to build some of the world's largest clouds whether you think of AWS or Azure or GCP, Google or so many more and they needed the kind of unprecedented scale to touch so many more companies and users. It had to be multi-tenant because they were not supporting one company, they're supporting thousands of companies. So a typical CIO of a mid-size company stopped building their own things. they started relying on the cloud for their mission critical assets whether it was e-commerce applications or their databases or whatever. Now in comes AI the last couple of years and that's adding another twist because cloud traffic is very different than AI traffic. AI traffic, you know, and we all saw this with the onset of chat GPT and all the other language models uh is conducting a class of complexity and search that is thousand or million times deeper and greater broader and so this required even more intensity uh of the traffic patterns. So typically we were doing with before AI what we would call front-end networks connecting standard CPUs storage general purpose query indexing searching that kind of things with the advent of AI we were suddenly connecting hundreds if not thousands or even hundreds of thousands of accelerators and this GPU traffic as I said required you to very different traffic you know it's it's much more intensive in the fidelity of the traffic, the intensity of the traffic, the durability of the traffic, the peak bursts. So we had this is often called a backend network or a scale up and scale out network. We had to build almost a different set of parameters and metrics and until we came along, I would say majority of this was little islands of things. There was an Infiniban network, an PCI network, a CX network, and Arista was able to bring Ethernet and IP and standardsbased capabilities like we had in the cloud into the back end for AI.
>> What's the biggest constraint now in terms of building out these networks?
>> You know, it's um I would say the biggest constraint for the industry at large is power.
>> Mhm. Because the power consumption of these GPUs and the network and the cables and the optics and everything is just unprecedented. In the old days, we used to talk about megawws. Now we talk about tens of gigawatts in a data center. To put this in perspective, right? This is larger than a football field and you're powering that with gigawatts of capability. So our our AI providers or cloud providers are unable to find this level of power. If today you're searching for that kind of power, it could take you 3 to 5 years to find it. The space and the power are probably the biggest problem right now.
>> But once you do find it, you have to outfit it correctly. And that's where we come in.
>> Absolutely. So if you find it, you have to you have to call you guys. But um um now enormous amounts of money flowing into AI infrastructure right now. Just how do you how do you how do you view this? Is it is it uh is it a bubble? Is it too fast?
>> It has happened very fast. Um when I look at the cycle of how networking progressed from you know 100 megbit to 1 GB to 10 Gbits to 100 Gbits that process happened every 5 years maybe but the migration from 100 Gbit to 200 400 1.60 and eventually 3.2 terabs is literally all happening within 12 months each. So what used to be 5ear cycles has become 12 to 18 month cycles. So when we think okay we're just done with 400 gig last year we're already thinking of 800 gig and 1.6 terra this year.
>> So the insatiable demand for speed for scale because you got to aggregate all of these throughputs and for predictable latencies all hitting us at once.
>> You were at Cisco during the internet boom. So how does this compare?
>> Yes.
>> How does this compare with what you saw at that stage?
>> Much greater. The internet boom happened in a very steady fashion. There was a period of time where there was a peak in 99200 due to the uh.com boom and bust I would add uh and then Y2K as well. But for most part that internet took 15 years to develop. I was there from the very first acquisition in 1993 of Crescendo um when the company was less than a billion dollars to when I left in 2008. it was a 40 or close to $50 billion company where the catalyst switches which I think are still um Cisco's most successful product line were contributing at least a third. The point though was it happened slowly and steadily but there was a peak there was a bubble for 2 years. This one feels very different for a number of reasons. First of all that 15 years that I was talking about is collapsing literally into 5 to seven years. The time aspect of this is shrinking. Secondly, the scale aspect of it is just exploding in magnitude. It's it's it's a thousandx more. And the third perhaps the most important one because people like to make this you know parallel to are we in a bubble. I think it's a lot of responsible companies and therefore we're not in a bubble or if we are in a bubble we're in a prolonged bubble. It's not selex that sort of came in were funded and then they collapsed. These are responsible companies like Microsoft, Google, Meta, Oracle that are taking responsibility of building all of these. Not to mention the neoclouds uh as well such as OpenAI and Anthropic. So, you know, I would say more than a bubble, it feels like an explosive mega trend that is here to stay for some time.
>> We did have overbuilding at the time of the com boom. H how can we be confident that it doesn't happen again? because it's not available. The power and the capacity is not. So, nobody can really overbuild. It's going to take time to build it. The desires are greater than our ability to execute on it. So, I think it'll still be a three-year execution rather than what happened in 1999 where everybody just hurried up, built these companies, and said build it and it will come. Here, there isn't a build it and they come. It is please build it. We need it now. That's the biggest change. But again, that's not to say that I I wouldn't I wouldn't correct myself and say it isn't a bubble, meaning it is happening in a furious sudden state, but I you know, so far greater than the steady state we've all been used to, but I don't think it's being done in a for a one-year factor. It's a 3 to 5 years and it's being done by responsible companies who are voting with their money and because they see demand. That's the biggest difference that the demand is there
>> talking about uh responsible people. So your biggest clients are the hyperscalers, right? The
>> correct cloud companies, the Microsoft
>> Titans. Yeah.
>> How how how concentrated is the customer base?
>> Well, you know, uh they've always been concentrated. Microsoft and Meta, as an example, have been more than 10% of our revenue each since we went public in 2014, you know, and I'm not going to apologize for that concentration. I'm going to be pleased and grateful for that partnership. So they continue to be 10% of our revenue but of course as the denominator gets larger and larger. Um we are diversifying to a a lot of specialty cloud providers to the enterprise to the campus but I would be kidding if I didn't tell you they're they're very very integral to Arista strategy and the partnership has never been stronger.
>> Which country are you the most impressed by when it comes to building the AI capabilities?
>> Which country? Mhm.
>> Um, undoubtedly the United States, I think we're leading. Uh, there are pockets of things happening in other countries, but in terms of scale, uh, and the companies we're working with, majority of that is in the US today.
>> Any other countries which are, uh, which you think are doing the right things?
>> Definitely. Um I think we're seeing pockets of this in the Nordics, in the Middle East, um some of it in UK as well. Um some of it in Korea and India. So no question it's coming to many of the other international locations as well.
>> When you look at where investments are taking place, are you worried that it's going to split the world even more than before?
>> No. Majority of the investments I'm seeing are not splitting the world but connecting the world more. So thankfully they're not government sponsored. So they're all about AI and technology and how to increase the communication. I was just in the Middle East a month ago and I'm just so impressed with the rate of progress there. Um where they are investing a lot of their oil currency into important AI
>> investments and capabilities. So I don't look at it as a divide. I look at it as a unity. Talking about impressed, you have now 21% of the market for AI data center networking which is incredible. Just how did you get there?
>> Is that all we have? I was hoping it was higher but we got work to do then. Uh we've climbed our way beautifully from 0 to 21. I think if you look at the high-speed market we're more at like 41. But if you look at the general speeds of all switching then we're probably more like the number you mentioned. Look, it's been a labor of love. The company was founded uh and started shipping products in 2008. So we have not done it you know in in a bolt of lightning. We have done it steadily but surely and really I think to epitomize the culture of this company that Andy Bethshine and Kendura started I would have to say built the right foundation for our software for our hardware infrastructure and keep improving it. So our market share really comes from the fact that our customers appreciate our innovation. We're built by engineers for engineers. We put a maniacal focus on quality
>> architecture and doing the right thing for our customers and supporting them because we're sitting there in the, you know, the heart of a mission critical environment where if we go down, everybody gets to find out. If we don't go down, we're the world's well-kept secret. And that's fine with me. So I think we have acted in a in a very methodical fashion and not just rushed a product to market before it was ready.
>> Now you spent 15 years at um at Cisco building up their data center business. Just um what was it like being at Cisco during kind of the peak levels, right?
>> It was more than the data center business. I I loved my time at Cisco. When I joined Cisco, Cisco was approximately 650 million in revenue and 6 billion in market cap. So you know wasn't a startup but it was certainly a very young company and so I got a chance and the company was largely building routers. So I got a chance to contribute in creating and building the catalyst brand of switches. First it was catalyst 1200 then 5,000 then 6500 4,000 3,000. So this switching brand went from being zero when I first came in there to I still remember the first year was 40 million then 365 million the second year and then a billion the third year and those kind of things you know don't happen without the worldwide web and the internet taking off no matter how great your products are. So I felt I felt privileged to be part of a rocket ship. It was a great company and you know but at some point I felt like wait I didn't intend to be in such a large corporation. I wanted to do something smaller, but I fondly and nostalgically remember my Cisco days and those 15 years.
>> What was the most important thing you learned from being on that rocket ship?
>> I think the same thing we have here, which is that focus on customers.
>> Cisco has a culture of customer focus. You know, I think Arista doubles down on that as well as innovation and engineering and quality. But I I I've taken calls on behalf of Cisco at 2:00 a.m. as an executive sponsor. If if something was serious, I'd pick that phone up, you know, even though I value my beauty sleep, that was more important at that point in time. So, I would say the culture of customers is super important.
>> Now, you could probably have been the, you know, the next CEO of um Cisco. So, why did you want to jump uh jump spaceship? Oh, you know, I don't know if I would have been an I would have been the right CEO for Cisco because I was an accidental executive at Cisco. I didn't plan to even be the executive I was. I love products. I love
>> But don't you think most people are accidental executives? I mean, it's all like it's not like you it's not like you are 5 years old and you sit in India and think, hey, I'm going to be a superstar in, you know, Cisco. I mean,
>> oh, heck no. that you know you could ask my parents how little of a superstar I was when I was 5 years old but leaving that for the moment I guess what I'd say is I loved product I loved working with the engineers to enable products to customers and I was too steeped in the technology interests to think I had broader capabilities or um um desire to be a CEO at Cisco. So actually when I left Cisco the fact of the matter was I thought I would do something entirely different like clean tech or energy or solar or battery and I really wanted to get back being in Silicon Valley to the roots of uh what I love which was being an entrepreneur and so I joined Arista when it was zero revenue and with 30 engineers and the most important thing I loved about that which uh is working with the people I enjoyed. So let's say now I I have a startup. I got zero revenue, 30 people hanging out in an office. How do I recruit a superstar like you were at the time?
>> Well,
>> into the total uncertainty.
>> Yeah. No, I think Andy Andy and I go back to what was it? We knew each other.
>> So this is Andy
>> Andy Shine, the German co-founder of the company. So you know we had bought his company Granite when I was at Cisco. So we had worked with each other. We worked also when he was at founded Sun Micros Systemystems and I was in AMD building chips. So basically we've known each other for you know since 1987 35 years or more. So I think you know when he saw that I was leaving and I didn't I truly did not know where I was going. I did not want to make a decision on where I was going. I wanted to clear my head. You know he said hey I got this startup and I said oh my first reaction was oh no Andy I don't want to do networking and switching again. But as I got to understand what the founders were trying to do and what the engineers were building, I was intrigued because it was networking and switching with a twist. It was not the internet and catalyst switching like I knew it. It was a completely different ballgame.
>> And what what exactly was that? What was that twist that made you interested?
>> The software the software architecture was so unique. You know, when you look at what uh all the other networking companies have done, they usually have five operating systems for five use cases times 50 images. is you're managing 250. Here we had one operating system, one binary image with a lot of class foundation that we call the state-driven publish subscribe model where if something fails, it doesn't just fail, it automatically recovers that agent. And you know, it's the opposite of a Christmas tree light where the Christmas tree light fails, everything goes down. Here we built something where one light failed, we could actually replace that LED and keep everything up and the customer would never know it. So that software has what has earned the right for us to be in all these mission critical high-profile customers you named and then of course we've taken it to a variety of use cases. So I was drawn to that technology. I was drawn to the people but I would be kidding if I didn't tell you there were moments of anxiety because the year I joined was 2008. It was in the middle of the financial collapse. One of our earliest customers that I won was Leven Brothers and you know what happened to them after that?
>> I do. So I had an ominous start to my entrepreneurial uh career at Arista which is now 17 years and going strong. So it's not like we didn't go through ups and downs. We absolutely did. The financial collapse was one. Um our our largest competitor Cisco suing us was another. COVID and the whole supply chain crisis was another. So we have fought a lot of adversity to be where we are and it's good to be good to be in this position. What does it take to take on a giant like Cisco? You know, be a startup and it's just like, hey, we're going to beat them. Just what does it take?
>> I don't I you most of my colleagues would tell you I don't think I ever felt I was taking on Cisco because initially we were so focused on very specific and unique use cases that Cisco didn't even want to be in or pay attention to like high high frequency trading and low latency. that was a use case they just didn't deal with and our first 100 million came largely from that. uh second use case was the cloud and again Cisco used to call it you know uh MSDC you know multi- massively scale data centers but they didn't really pay attention to that sector as a sector of customers and try to understand why they did what they did in fact the early days of AWS Amazon and Google they didn't use Cisco they didn't use Arista because they built their own because they were so dissatisfied with their requirements and what was commercially available So once again I felt like we was fulfilling a white space that the large corporate corporations and in particular Cisco were not doing at that time.
>> What is an example of uh outstanding customer service?
>> There are many examples and many stories I could tell you but let me actually ask you that question back. If today you picked up the phone and called Arista support, what do you think and you you had a network problem and you had a what do you think the response or expectation from you would be?
>> Well, that you came and sorted out my problem.
>> Well, typically how it works is we'll say, "Okay, who are you? Have you paid your bills?" If you're just a random asker of questions, they're like, "Wait a minute, we don't have an account on you." We don't do any of that. Um, we immediately say, "What's the problem?" And our average resolution time, we don't, you know, it's like treating a patient in an emergency or ICU. You don't ask them 20 questions. You get to their symptoms and treat them. So our average resolution time is 25 minutes. It's an unheard of record. Why? Because we're filled with experts and our quality and support go hand in hand. You build high-quality products, if somebody misconfigures them or there is a support problem, you got to be right there. So we don't outsource this to anybody. It's a follow of the sun model. It's worldwide coverage any day, any time, any zone and we respond and solve the problem. Some problems are solved in 5 minutes, some may take hours, but the average time is very short and it's a very high quality experience.
>> How do you make sure you stay ahead?
>> It takes um it takes some personal time. So, I will block out think times in my calendar where I just don't do meetings because everybody wants me to do a meeting. I make a point of staying current on events and technologies. Um AI as an example, I made a personal point in in 2022 and 2023 to come up to speed. I wasn't paying full-time attention to it. And when the chat GPT moment hit in November of 2022, I think it was a massive, you know, sort of um milestone for the tech industry. And I remember I had to give a talk uh at the optical conference OFC in January of 2023 and I could have talked to talked about optics and long haul and short hall and DWDM and co-ackaged optics and DSPs and all of that but instead I used that optical conference to actually talk about AI as a driver. And so to do that, I had to learn and study myself because you're talking to an audience of PhDs who probably know much more theoretically. And so I take great pride in always learning um or always continuing to push the envelope both as an individual and you know from my peers in the industry and in inside of Arista. We have a very rich organization of top technical experts.
>> What's the furthest you can see into the future? Not that well I'd be wrong. I can see far far enough to say some things might happen but I would say my accuracy is best in the 1 to three year after that it's a little more blue sky.
>> And what is going to change over the next 3 years
>> I think the way we think of AI right now is going to change dramatically. So today we are building the mainframe version of AI. We're talking about how bad are the clusters, how many millions and billions and trillions of parameters and tokens can you put in there. What does that manifest in terms of teraflops or terowatts or terabits of capacity but in my view the next 3 years while that is important I'm not underestimating that. I think what's going to happen is this is going to become much more of a distributed problem. We're not going to be able to fit it all into one size. And just as the mainframe moved to client server and eventually, you know, distributed PCs and clients and phones, I think AI is going to take many shapes and sizes and, you know, including this one, right? So,
>> and what are the and what are the implications of that?
>> Significant because miniaturization is a lot harder than saying, "Let me just build build the biggest baddest to everything." That means I've got to be able to translate my training models into reasoning and inference and do more with less in a lot of those use cases. M
>> so um because if you can just throw bandwidth at the problem and throw capacity and and compute capability then yeah you can process the world's largest training workloads but if you can apply that and to reasoning and extend that in a more distributed fashion all the way into your you know general purpose compute and storage I think that'll be AI to every desktop
>> not just AI for the biggest baddest. Are you worried that the technology world is splitting in two here between the US and China?
>> Um there there there is a political aspect to how we are polarized today. Uh I wish I wish innovation and technology could be playing an even field. But I understand we're all countries governed by different. So I am worried that that for the United States to stay ahead and a step ahead, we have to be constantly innovating and constantly partnering with the best talent. You know, I'm an example of an immigrant who came here who wasn't born and raised here.
>> So whether that talent is in China or India or London or wherever, we need access and we need to be collaborating with the best of the binds.
>> Let's move on to culture. Um how would you describe Barista's culture? in one word, do the right thing. Uh because it's too easy to be, especially when we're a public company, focused on the quarter, focused on something. And no doubt every company has a business model that we have to focus on and all that. But if you look past that and do the right thing, then all the intermittent things take care of itself. One of the best examples I can give you is, you know, early in our career, we had a a huge quality problem with one of our chip meners with the hardware. We worked with them, they worked with us, and I had a choice of just doing a minor patch on the software, but I went all out to explain this to our customers and say, "Look, you're not seeing the problem right now, but this could be a slow DK, and we want to volunteer to replace all your gear at our cost." You know, that could have nearly made us bankrupt at that time, but we chose to do the right thing. So, more people remember that we did that, even though it was bad news at that time, than all the good news, right? So I think that focus on doing the right thing as a company for our employees as a culture for our customers is what I would describe as the oneliner.
>> How do you make sure that this attitude is shared across the organization?
>> That's not easy especially as you get bigger. But what's what's what's beautiful is as a management team, you know, we have pretty much been the same management team for the last 15 years. you know, we we lose people occasionally uh due to alternate goals or um financial success, but I think when you have the same management team and leaders and obviously now we're bringing in next generation leaders and you reinforce that culture, then that permeates throughout. And the other big thing I would say is while we of course have middle management, we make sure that the middle management plays an important role in this culture and isn't just a professional manager but a coach player that they're contributing with their own, you know, two days of coding. My my president and CTO Ken Duda who's a founder of this company, he still codes. So that tells our employees that we're leading by example. We're not saying one thing and doing another.
>> How do you keep learning?
>> I probably don't learn enough. Um, but as I said, one of the important I I my sources of learning are many. Uh, when I go to see customers, they teach me a lot cuz they, you know, they look at it through a different lens. So, that's one aspect. I spend a lot of time with our engineers to understand what they're up to and what some of their pain points are. So, they're always teaching me. uh of course today through you know you can go to claude and become a software developer with great efficiency or gemini or chat GPT those tools are certainly making it easy to understand complex topics um I try not to rely on them except in my points of weakness but that's certainly a source of learning and my most favorite part of learning is actually reading um which I do less and less of and but I that that's my go-to
>> so uh Jri what do you look for when you hire.
>> Yeah. So obviously when you hire somebody it's very clear they need to be competent.
>> So there's an element of aptitude and you know quizzing them on their capabilities. But I look for competence, character, moral values, culture um and what kind of a human being are you a good person? because you know I want to make sure that this hire is not only capable of producing results but can also be with us in the long run and embrace and permeate our culture right again back to doing the right thing. So we definitely en you know enforce the look at the long road and so we look for like-minded people. In fact, it's it's many people say, "Oh, you know, if you hire somebody who's related to you, is it nepotism?" I think there's a good chance you're going to get some some really good people that way because, you know, the relative is good, so they must be too. So, I'm always willing to give internships to the Arista employees, extended family if we if we have openings, of course.
>> What proportion of your employees have Indian background? Uh I would say because we have a large India uh facility it's probably around 15 to 20%.
>> Could we go back to your upbringing in uh in India? You grew up in New Delhi. So what were you dreaming about when you were 5 years old?
>> Yeah. Well, yeah. I was born in London, raised in Delhi and then have spent majority of my life in the United States. Uh my dad was an educator. So he was dreaming about my education and making sure I do well. He started the first five IT in India which as you probably know are very wellknown and high reputation famous. So um I think education was a huge part of being a middle class family um and institutions. So doing well in school you know excelling not just doing well excelling in school going to the best schools. My parents made sure they could afford the best education. So I I didn't dream what what I'm doing now. I dreamt more one step at a time about how do I do well in school? How do I go to the best colleges? And there was no long-term plans per se. Um but I I could tell that my parents had high expectations of me. Probably me myself didn't have as many high expectations of myself.
>> What does it do to a person to have all these expectations on you? Sometimes it it forces you to perform better than you would because it's a very interesting uh thing that anytime my dad or mom went to meet my teachers at a parent teacher association they'd always say Jri has a lot of potential but she's not using it all she's not fulfilling to her highest potential and so they come back obviously demanding more expecting more but I think what taught me was you know one of my best friends in in India you rank all the students so she always came first and I didn't come first and I noticed that she would work you know about 8 hours a day in terms of studying and to do well in these exams I would work more like 3 to four hours a day and to me that you know rich ROI if you want to call it that to get a rank that was not as good as hers but Still I did well. I was in the top 10%. You know, I tried to convince my parents I was playing the long game. And today it may look like I was, but at that time it was more an excuse to not study 8 hours a day.
>> You studied electrical engineering which was not very common for women at that time.
>> No, not at all.
>> So h how come you ended up there?
>> Yeah, I ended up there through elimination. Um I loved physics, I loved chemistry, I loved math. I did not like biology. I was not as good in the arts departments and I thought what is it that can give me this intersection of problem solving and computer science was still a pretty rare field uh in my era. Probably if that had been there I would have done more of it. I I had to take my computer science classes in the math department for forran and C++ and assembly. So it was I took a few classes but electrical engineering was the hardcore engineering and it's coming back. I wish more people will do it now in this modern world of more and more silicon and chip and hardware design.
>> Um so I think and and I had been influenced by my father starting the IIT that applying science to real world problems which are what which is what I think engineering really is was something that excited me.
>> Now you are considered one of the hardest working people in technology. Just how much do you work? You know, I I think when you love what you do, it doesn't feel like you're working hard or working long. You're enjoying it.
>> Also, as a CEO, you the buck stops with you. And I have a responsibility. So, I would say my mom says the same thing. You work too hard. You work too hard. And I say, "Mom, I love what I'm doing." So I haven't kept track of the hours because you know u it has always been important to me to balance my work with my health and my family but frankly I clearly need a few more hobbies. Maybe then I'll work a little little less hard.
>> What are your hobbies? Do you have any hobbies?
>> I you know I uh used to run a lot but I've hurt my knees so I walk. I do a lot of hikes. Um our dog is a big part of that. Um, my family, we're all into music of some form or shape. So, while I don't plan to do any public singing, it's still a lot of fun. The the acoustics in a shower, it sound really good. You can, anybody can sound good. And these days, you can use enough um synthesizers to sound good, too. So, I love that. I love to read.
>> What do you read?
>> You know, I read I read a lot of bio. I haven't read as much recently but when I do read it's usually on longd distance flights and either I will print and publish a spec and read a technical document or I will read a completely you know brainless novel like a John Gisham or a uh something where I don't have to think about things because that's my downtime but I'd rather read than watch a movie.
>> When you look at your life what are you the most proud of?
>> I'm most proud of my family. I would say my daughters, my husband, my extended family, they give me a lot of joy because it's at that point it's not just about me. It's about you know they I recently I got a honorary doctorate degree from my alma mater Santa Clara University but my daughters really did a PhD and a doctorate in veterinarian science. So I'm I'm happy for their values. I'm happy they're compassionate people and they're happy that they've pursued their path of excellence.
>> What kind of advice do you give to young people including your daughters?
>> This is a lot of the advice I give because they all they they seem anxious to get to a certain point in a certain time in their career. And I say look pursue your path of excellence. You know, every one of us has a gift, which also means we're good at some things. We're very bad at some things. But if you can find the things you're good at and improve that and build upon that and become excellent at it and keep working on it, I think everybody defines their path to excellence. And it isn't always measured by money alone. It should be measured by reaching that destination of what you deem to be success. Dish, it seems like uh your teachers back in India were totally wrong. Uh it seems to be that you have absolutely use your potential to the fool. Big thanks to you for keeping uh keeping the world connected and all the best of luck.
>> Thank you, Nikolai. My pleasure. Thank you for all the thoughtful questions.
>> Thank you.