Hey everyone, I'm Jan Jagenolin. At TVO, we are really lucky to be home to some incredible documentaries. And today, in a special bonus episode of The Rundown, I want to introduce you to one of those films and take you behind the scenes of how it was made. It's a new TVO original documentary called Nikai Walks. And it follows the story of Nikai Foster, a teenager who was shot at random while walking home in Toronto's Jane and Finch neighborhood. The movie chronicles his recovery and the impact of gun violence. Rico, great to have you back. How are you doing?
>> Doing great.
>> All right. Uh, before we begin our conversation, I just want to let people know that this conversation is for people who have seen the dock. So, if you haven't, hit pause on this video, go watch the film, and then come back and watch this. All right, Rico, how did Walk me through the process? How did you go from the idea learning about Nikai's story, meeting him at uh essentially Sunny Brook to actually making this documentary?
>> Well, my idea like I've been filming um the impact gun violence has on our community from Baltimore to Houston and I thought it would be great to have Toronto on the list. So, uh the first thing I did, you know, I didn't expect to ever have a broadcaster on board, so I just shot it myself, you know. Um, I selfunded a feature doc and uh, you know, um, the f kind folks at TVO watched it and they asked me for a character-driven doc and I, you know, went to community and, um, was searching for the story, but the story found me. We we never really intended to have Nikai. I don't think the original treatment really had Nikai Foster in there, but uh in just doing my community work and being a big brother to to uh young boys that who need a big brother, uh we went to the hospital and uh again as we spoke earlier, you know, just just to be there for him and make sure, you know, his mind is in the right places. And um I developed a friendship and one day he asked me to shoot it in 4K. Uh I spoke I think I you know relate the message back to TV like I think I you know this is going to be a great story because it is you know this the guy is great like I I was in the hospital with a kid who couldn't move but he was smiling
>> you know trying to shake my hand very respectful you know and and I wanted people to see you know Jane Jayen Finch yes it has troubles but it has uh kids like him respectful uh loving and you know kids that love life you know and I felt like it's a great representation for that
>> as you talk about you know you were there through some very difficult times and I am curious when do you know when to turn the camera on when to turn off the camera
>> in the editing lab. Yeah. You don't you don't turn off the camera ever. Um I knew to be respectful of everybody at the hospital. like not everybody wants to be on camera, you know, and these are people's worst days, you know, uh at the hospitals, at these ICUs and ERS. So, you know, you have to be sensitive to that. But Nikai wanted his story to be seen. And the only way we can make a change is if you know how serious it is, how big of a problem it is. And I don't think a 15 second or one minute news clip does justice to these stories. These are human beings and people. There's I'm imagining hours because you you spent several months filming with him and his family. Uh were there things that you had to take out um that uh you know you were like I really wish that that was in there.
>> Oh man, tons of it.
>> Oh my god. Like like cuz we we filmed every day down there uh for a whole year.
>> Um like conversations with Nai and his sister that are really funny to me. Uh we went to the beach together. There's a scene at the beach. There is. Yes.
>> Yeah. But there's like behind the scene where we're just having a lot of fun. I felt like it should have made the documentary, but we got to like squeeze everything in
>> in 86 minutes, 90 minutes. Yeah.
>> Uh, one thing people will know, yes, it's called Nikai Walks, but it's not just about Nikai. Uh, there are several victims as well as as well as perpetrators of violence featured in the dog, which is an interesting one. Speak to uh Emo Lewis. uh you see him in the beginning uh at at some point and then five years uh later um serving uh life in prison for murder. First access on that. You're this is in Saskatchewan uh from what I understand. How did that connection come about?
>> Well, you know, they transfer them a lot.
>> Um
>> I met I am watching in Kingston. Okay. Uh for the first interview,
>> you know, uh he's been in there for a really long time. um serve this time, you know, for he, you know, as you see in the documentary, he's not hiding shying away from the fact that he did wrong,
>> but he wants to make a difference, you know, and I feel like sometimes it's the energy like I don't know how to like properly answer these questions sometimes cuz it's just the energy like he sees me, I see him, and we know our intentions are good and we want to make a difference and we want to make sure the world becomes a better place. And
>> is there ever in spending so much time with Nikai, seeing someone um you know who has been his life changed because of gun violence and then sitting across from someone who has essentially done the same to another family? How do you find that balance? Is there is there anger in there? Is there were you trying to seek justice even though the justice system had already done what it needed to do? Right.
>> Were was how are you having these difficult conversations looking at someone across across the the aisle there? Well, believe it or not, like Nikai said in the end of the documentary, like people are victims before they're suspects.
>> You know, you know, growing up in these communities, you're victimized so many times, right? And I'm not saying that's an excuse,
>> but that's how I look at it. You know, I look at him as the child self. That's why I put his picture of him as a child. He's an innocent child. He wanted to be a fireman.
>> You know what I mean? And it's society and that that corrupts these young minds sometimes. And it's hard, very hard to raise yourself out of these circumstances sometimes. And it's a quick decision that's the wrong thing and affects you for the rest of your life. And you can't judge somebody for the five minute decision they made. You know, I know I mean
>> it's horrible that people have to grow out grow up without their loved ones. But we cut this problem from the root, we won't have to have ever have to deal with it.
>> You also filmed funerals, visuals for other victims of gun violence. We see the mother of Jordan Manners. Uh that's a name a lot of uh people will remember. He was a young boy who was murdered in his school uh back in 2007. And this is her just going about her day, taking transit, going to see him his uh his grave. Um how did you persuade them to to let you in uh on their lives? again like we're all tired of the gun violence. So, so I didn't have to persuade them. They wanted to show, hey, like Emit Till uh in 1955,
>> you know, his mama wanted to show an open casket to see what they did to his her kid and that's a big moment for the civil rights movement, right? So,
>> um a lot of the families like want to show um what what happened to them, their their loved ones, and hey, you know, it's a cry for help almost. You know what I mean? And for me personally, I also want to make sure they me memorialize a lot of u our community people who died before their time. They could have had a an amazing life, but it was cut short, you know, and I want to make sure that, you know, they're remembered, you know, cuz I've lost a lot of people myself, and I and I hate the fact that they're gone, but
>> what can I do about it? But make sure the world knows that, hey, they were here,
>> you know. Was there anyone that uh you wanted to speak to uh but they weren't ready uh or willing to talk? They they saw you know the the reason and the purpose and they thought it was important but uh you know as you as you mentioned you're meeting people in the worst days of their lives um but just weren't ready.
>> Yeah. I had a kid that was shot 11 times and survived.
>> Um he felt he didn't know how to feel about his situation and I did interview him. I did follow him for three or four days,
>> but I felt like I felt like he wasn't ready either.
>> And we're not going to force anybody to be part of a project. You know, we these are these are real life situations. You know, Nikai at the birthday scene, there's a kid in there's a one of his friends from that scene was murdered,
>> you know what I mean? Like not too long after,
>> you know? So this is if ever it's happening continuously in his real life you know and I have to be sensitive to that and um you know uh Yace took the kid in and he works there now and uh hopefully you know he'll he'll find his way but not every story has to be told you know we try to get as many as possible but you have to be ready too you know and we have to make sure it's safe to say the story and sometimes it's not. After doing a film as heavy as this one, what's next? What do you do next?
>> Another heavy film.
>> Can you give us a little sneak peek here?
>> Sneak peek. Yeah. So, like, uh, we're we're in development right now for a documentary to cover Imo's story. I feel like I didn't cover his story enough, you know, cuz he went through so much and I want, you know, uh, us to see how the, you know, to be able to fix these systems, man. You know, you go through one institution to another institution to another institution from from a child from your childhood, right? from foster care or whatever. And so many kids are like being ignored so many times like it's like a cocaine and you shake it, shake it, shake it, shake it.
>> What else is it going to do?
>> You know, like it's going to explode in the worst way possible. So I want um we're covering his story. You know, hopefully I think it's going to be a great story, a great documentary, and you know, we're ready for it. And he's already been moved to Manitoba, so they're always moving him around and stuff like that, right? So I think it's going to be great. and uh was with TVO. So,
>> we'll look forward to it. Rico, I appreciate it. Thank you so much for the work you do. Uh an official Torononian now. Uh you were part of the the community here at TVO as well. So, appreciate it so much.
>> Thank you so much for having me.
>> All right.