[Music] All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market close. We are live. It is Monday, November 10th. And folks, we went green. We went green. Oh boy, did we go green. S&P 500o 68195. We were barely pushing 677 uh this morning and we were bouncing around 655 to 677. Now we are well above 680 at least at you know pushing 682 and every dollar on the S&P really does matter. So seeing that hit above 680 is really nice to see. That's one of the core levels I talked about this morning. If we can get above 680 and then close above 680, we're up 10 bucks on the day up 1.62%. And that's causing everything to have some fun. SoFi, what a day. It was up 10% at one point. Right now 8.84. I think if you are a SoFi shareholder, you will take it. You got SoFi right there. Looks like it's going to get that close above 3050. Grab right there up 6%. Google up 4%. 290 4% on a $3.2 trillion company is a big deal. Nvidia pushing 200 up 11 bucks. That's up 6%. Palunteer 9% on the day at 193. That's a $16 rebound. Robin Hood right here at 137 again. S&P at 681. Meta's up 2%. Amazon's up 2%. Salesforce up half percent. Even Reddit's up 6%. Apple's up a third of a percent. SMCI is up too. Bitcoin and Ethereum relatively flat. Ethereum right there at 3500. Bitcoin at 106. Bitcoin at least above that 104 level it was at in the morning. And that's why BMR right here is at 4172 up 3%. But it is very very very nice to see that we are getting a green rebound. And now the number one question I think people are having are why are we getting that green rebound? And obviously there's two main answers. Number one is the shutdown has not officially come to an end, but in the next three days it should likely come to an end. We got that Senate procedural vote yesterday. That's what the market really cared about. And then number two, you've got potentially a little bit of less fear around the nature of this AI trade. And there are some headlines we'll talk about for why that fear is potentially going down. There's also some headlines for why that fear could be going up. One of those headlines being from Michael Bur who actually tweeted and called out some companies for the first time in a couple years specifically Meta, Oracle, and Nvidia saying that they have overstated their or sorry underststated their depreciation which has allowed them to overstate their earnings. And then he's saying uh stay tuned for November 25th because things get worse. Don't know what that means. Is he launching a book? Is he putting out more analysis? But nonetheless, you have that headline there. Even that headline has not stopped the two big positions that he has a massive bearish bet against pound and Nvidia from going down. Pound right there up 9% on the day and then Nvidia up 6.2%. Again, he does have close to a billion dollar notional put position on these two companies. You're not seeing that type of pain. Now, it's not happening to the entirety of the market because you are getting some pain in a variety of areas. First of all, the earnings that we have today, Big Bear AI, Regetti, Rocket Lab, AS, Terow, Wolf, Plug, and Oxy. The only one that I own out of these names are Rocket Lab. So, we're going to get all those earnings after the bell, and I'll put a poll right here in the chat on which one people think uh will outperform. But the data center plays haven't really done that well today. Honestly, I'm not sure exactly why. The only argument you can make is around the overall debt that these data centers or that the hyperscalers are taking on, which could be affecting all the Neoclouds. Cory right there basically of 1% of a Nebius ended up going basically flat. It was at 118 came down to 108 now it's at 111.
>> Mic mic issue. Okay, hold on. Why does the mic messing up this quickly? Um, okay. Better better. Yes. Better better with my mic, bro. better. Yes. No. Good. Good. Okay, we'll switch back to the other mic in a second, but um No. Okay, give me one sec. Literally, give me one sec and we're going to fix it right here. We're going to do this. Okay, let's see. Okay, let me know if this one should be better. Nebia is right there. 111. If it's not good, let me know. That one should be better. I was saying I don't know why the D plays are getting hit today because of the depth the hyperscalers are taking. See I ren here down 3% of the day 60.2 uh terrible all of them getting hit. Not exactly sure why Neb basically flat on the pay as well. Cypher down 4% maybe it has to do with AI hyperscaler debt. Maybe there's something else going on but we will get one of the big neocloud earnings today after develop with core. Again you can see pounder and video going green. Cororee not really holding up that same type of green. The market is being a bit selective here in terms of what playing out. Getting bad again. Okay. Well, let's go to Tom Lee anyway because I was about to switch them. Let me figure out the mic issue. Here was Tom Lee this morning and uh or this afternoon like 10 minutes ago. Here's what he had to say about the markets. Let me pull this up. Why is the mic being weird right at the end of the day? Yes, Corwe. Mic is fine. Oh, don't don't tell me you guys were tr Okay. Well, we'll go to Tom Lee anyway and then we'll be back. Trump is live right now as well and so we'll probably get some quotes from Trump in a second as we get into earnings.
>> NBC contributor trade says today. Am I right? Uh yeah, I think there's a certain measure of relief because the shutdown robbed us of visibility on the macro data and of course there's economic hit and they're suffering cuz you know air traffic is selling. So I think for many reasons I think this shutdown was a problem for investors.
>> So what about now between you know now and the end of the year? It's it's the AI trade that really seems to be debated. How how do you feel about it heading into this final stretch? Uh I I think it's still in really good shape fundamentally. We know there's a lot of visibility for for AI spending and we know there's still innovation and gain of function taking place with the models. So it to me it makes sense that there's still a payoff coming. I think one of the issues that investors are going to grapple with is even though they may say AI uh stocks are expensive, Nvidia still only trades at 29 times Ford earnings. I mean it's still cheaper than Costco. So it's it's hardly a bubble valuation. No, but I don't think when they talk about the valuation of AI stocks, they're necessarily talking about Nvidia. I think you would agree with me on that. They're more so talking about names like Palunteer and some others where you could easily say, "Yes, the the earnings have been great and the the story is incredible, but at some point you're only willing to pay X for a stock and maybe that one's gotten a little bit too rich." Using that as an example of the kind of names they're talking about.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think Palunteer is an example of what they call like an N equals one company. You know, you've got a founderland business developing products that really seem like magic for the companies that adopt it. So, you know, should this just be getting a software multiple? I don't think so. And, you know, Palanteer's opening up so many markets and if and if it was a venture capital firm, they'd be getting, you know, potential carry for how they transform businesses. So, to me, I I think that this is still a market discovering, you know, how to define the valuation model for Palanteer. To me, that's that doesn't mean it's a bubble. You know, people would have said that about Tesla in 2018 because it looked incredibly expensive and the stock in Tesla has been a huge performer since then. But what was last week about then do you think at its heart?
>> Well, I think at the at the heart is we the market wobbles and so when the market wobbles people two things, you know, one is they start to take shots at the leaders, right? Because they try to take down the leaders thinking that's what leads us down. But the second it it really highlights the grim reality that we're about to have a third year of double digit gains. The S&P is up 80% over the past three years. And funds are measured on three-year performance. Only 21% of fund managers are beating 80% over that three-year period. It is one of the worst ever periods for fund managers. And so they'd rather see the market fall so that it falls to their performance level. I think what's more likely of course is the market follows a seasonal pattern which means there's going to be a lot of chasing into year end.
>> Don't you?
>> Okay. So, we'll finish up with Tom Lee after the bell and we get through earnings. But kind of a couple core arguments he made. Number one, market wobbles. It is what it is. It's I mean, basically, he said, "Hey, stocks go up, stocks go down, and this is just one thing that everyone has to get used to." And and quite frankly, there wasn't a lot of reasons for why the market took as bad of a downturn as it did last week. All of us were trying to figure out exactly what the reason was and none of us really had that sort of core headline until the shutdown potentially being reversed caused the Vshape on Friday which then made it very clear that the market cares so much about the shutdown and that's what Tomley talked about as well as one of the bigger issues in terms of pounder. I thought what he said was also really important. Uh essentially saying that pounder is a one of and of one company and that their products are like magic for the companies that use them. basically saying you could have said the same argument about Tesla when it was worth 50 billion back in 2018 that was egregiously overvalued and expensive and it was expensive just like pounder is expensive right now but that doesn't mean it's a bubble and at its core he's basically highlighting pounder as a core winner in the AI space which you know the bulls believe that it will continue to put up the growth to be able to get the valuation it deserves and the bears think that the valuation is egregious one of them is going to be right right now obviously the market is siding on pounder also this $16 8% rebound don't tell me that's all retail today on Pounder and Nvidia. I mean, this is obviously bigger money that's stepping in after the shutdown that's happy to uh start reallocating to equities, which goes to Tom Lee's third point, which is that only 23% of fund managers are meeting their benchmarks, which means they'd rather see the market go down so they can catch up to their performance. If the market doesn't go down, they have to chase. As a institutional money manager, you have a fiduciary duty to be able to beat the S&P 500. And if you're not at this point, then there might be some chasing that's going on right here. So, if the shutdown reversing was the catalyst to get big money to be excited again, maybe everything we're seeing today is all retail. Maybe SoFi up 8% is pure retail. But if it's not, which I would think it's not, then you have a lot more money coming into the system. Uh Trump is talking right now. I'm getting a bunch of headlines from Trump. Again, we got a lot of earnings. I put the core pump or dump. Most of you guys are thinking Rock Lab's going to outperform every other company that's reporting today. 62% of you say Cororeweave is going to be a pump. Let me know if anyone owns any of these names. Big Bear AI Street's expecting a loss of 7 cents and 31 million in revenue. Regetti Street's expecting a loss of 6 cents and 2.1 million in revenue. Corre Street's expecting 51 cents of a loss and 1.28 billion in revenue. I don't think Corre is going to be profitable. If they end up being profitable, I think that would be really good for the stock. Maybe this is not the quarter for it, but that's what the streets expecting. Then Rocket Lab Street's expecting 10 cents of a loss, 151 million of revenue. ESTs streets expecting 27 cents of a loss and 22 million in revenue. Uh and then for plug streets expecting 13 cents and 176 million of revenue. Oxy streets expecting 49 cents 6.74 billion in revenue. I think Rocket Lab ass are the main names that most people here own and so we're going to get those earnings in the next couple minutes. In terms of Trump, okay, so a couple things. Number one, he said we're making a deal with India. It's different to the one that we had in the past and we are getting close to that deal. And then on Nvidia, he just said something about Nvidia as well. Again, he's taking questions. I'm not sure why he's live, but he's at the Q&A portion of being live. And so, you're getting a lot of different quotes. On the shutdown, he says, "The deal is very good. We want healthcare where we pay money to people and not healthcare companies. We will be bringing tariffs down for India. Uh, we will issue a dividend to middle and lower income people of 2,000 thanks to tariffs." He keeps using the word dividend. I'm not sure if that means a STEMI check or if that's like this bakedin tax credit or something, but uh we'll we'll get the clip in a second and see exactly what he says. Uh and then he said national security would be in a disaster if the court rules against the tariffs. I don't have the exact quote on Nvidia yet, if there is a quote, but those are the quotes so far that I have from Trump. There you go. That's what we got on Trump and we're going to get earnings in about five minutes and see what we got. See a lot of people here owning Big Bear, Rocket Lab, Coreweave, and AS. A little bit of Wolf. Uh I own Rocket Lab. I have 2500 shares, $26 average. I I kind of I don't care if it goes down. It'll it'll get me a chance to buy more. If it goes up, that's great. So, really not that nervous. I know a lot of people are heavier in some of those names than myself, but I mean, for a company like Rock Lab, I think they're just so early in their journey. Neutron is going to be such an important thing next year. So, I mean, if we do get a dip, I would not hesitate to to buy more if it would get to a good price. So, that's what we got and we're going to get these numbers pretty soon in the next 20 seconds as we get into earnings. We got real Matt money. Matt, are you streaming the Rocklab call or not? Because I think I'm going to stream core. So, if you're streaming it, I'll send people to your channel for Rocklab and we'll get those earnings as we get into the close. All right. Thank you everybody for being here. Monday, November 10th, 4 p.m. The stock market is now closed. All right, markets are closed and we got a green day to end out the markets. Uh, not so dumb. Jack, thank you for the $50 super chat. Admit, thanks for keeping us calm in the storm brother. Deeply appreciate you, man. Thank you for being here and thank you for the $50 super chat. Matt says he's doing the call 15 minutes after the close. Okay. So, I'm going to put Matt's link in the chat whenever he goes live. And for those that care about Rocket Lab, you can head over to Matt's stream and uh he will be listening into the call. I think we get them. Do we get the numbers at 4:15 or 4 Rocket Lab? Because if we get them at 4, we can go through the numbers here. If not, then we'll see at 4:15. But I think most of these companies by 4 to 405, we should be getting their numbers. All right. So, how do we close? We got a 1% day on the S&P. We got a 1% day on the S&P. I'm just going to go to Weeble, guys, because Robin does not show those afterhour moves and it's really hard to see the price action. So, we're just going to go to Weeble right here and then we'll get into earnings. Uh S&P 500 68140 on the day. Not too bad. That's up 1.5%. Palanteer up eight and a half% on the day. Oaklo was actually red. Rock Lab was up about half a percent. Papa John's got halted for a $65 buyout out offer. No one knows if that's officially happening, but it did get halted. Nvidia 1990, not bad. And then you got Oracle that was actually up63%. Tesla as well 3.6% up on the day. Coreweave, are we getting a move? It was up 1.54%. Not seeing too much of a move yet. It is green up about 1%. Uh Open Door, by the way, great day. Open door almost $8. Uh up from 477 at the lows on Friday. So open door massive day. JP Morgan did upgrade them to an $8 price. That's why the street got excited for them. Celsius was up 7% on the day. D-wave was down about half a percent. Dualingo continued to go down by about 4%. Zeta was up about 2% on the day. EOSC energy was up 5%. The NASDAQ was up 2%. Weeble was up 73%. Then AMD up four and a half% as well, which was not too bad. Corave right here, we are getting a little bit of a move. Nothing too crazy. AS 2.3% down. 2.3% down. Let's see if we can get these numbers. Obviously, Street doesn't like it on the first glance. We have Plug Power real quick. Let me take a look at that. Plug is down by half a percent. Don't have their numbers. I thought I did. Let me see if I can get it again. ESTs down by 1.23. Terowolf's dumping as well. Terowolf. Let's see again. Google invested in these guys. AI Hyper or AI HPC play that got an investment from a hyperscaler. They were a Bitcoin miner. Terowolf. Terolf's not dumping. And now it's flat. It was down half a percent, but nothing too crazy. Um, Big Bear AI, don't have their numbers yet either. Okay, let me make the watch list right here on Weeble. Earnings 1110. So, we have Big Bear, we have Rocket Lab, as Regetti, Oxy, Plug, Coreweave, and Wolf. So, these are the main ones we're looking at. Not really seeing any pre any after hours action besides Rocket Lab getting about a 1% move either. Plug um 177 million that's up 13% year-over-year. Adjusted EPS of a loss of 12 cents. I think that's a beat on the top and the bottom. Let me confirm, but I think that is a beat. Rocket Lab, do we have a move? We do not have a move. That's 1.2%. I mean, that's that is a move. It's not the craziest move. Yeah, Plug beat by 8% on EPS, 1% on revenue. So, you got a double beat for Plug, which is good to see. The rest I don't have any other numbers. That's it. So, all we have is Plug. All right. So, we're going to have to wait a little bit to see what else comes out. Oxy, that's flat. Regetti, that's up a little bit. ESTs, it was down two. Now, it's flat. So, I don't think there were numbers there, even though there was a reaction. And then same with Big Bear. Next is reporting today. Okay, I'll put them on the list. next decade, right? Oh, this is this is Matt Money. Okay, so we'll put them there. They're pre-revenue, though, right? So, we're gonna have to see what numbers they put up. Uh, but we should be getting the rest of them soon. Is Beyond Meat today? I think Beyond Meat is today. So, let's put that on the list as well. Beyond Meat is up 2% after hours. Was down 3% on the day. I don't have those numbers yet. You guys are saying AS is out and I don't see any numbers. Let me check again if we have this. Um, don't have Rocket Lab, that's for sure. No, I don't see as I don't see it. No, it's not out, guys. It's not I don't know where you're looking, but from all my sources, I'm not seeing any of those numbers yet. Not yet. Beyond is at 5:00 p.m. Okay. So, we're going to listen to coreweave at 5 pm. I think it's an important call to listen to just because of all the stuff going on, data centers, neoclouds, etc. And then for those that want to do rocket lab, you can go over to map money as up about 1.88 after hours. Again, a lot of these moves not really showing any reaction to the to the earnings because the earnings aren't out, but they are getting some green. Regetti's out. Okay, let me see. Oh, Regetti, I got it. Oh, boy. That's Hold on. This is either good or bad based on how I'm reading it. Oh, this is looks bad. Okay, so they're they missed EPS by uh 933%. Uh 62 cents of a loss versus 6 cents. And then revenue 1.94 versus 2.1. Uh a little bit of a miss on the bottom line and uh definitely a miss on the top line right there. EPS is down 675% year-over-year. Revenue is down 18% year-over-year. I mean, the stock has been pretty resilient, though. So, let's see where the stock is. Stock is down 2%. Which, to be honest, you can't be that upset if it's down 2% after missing EPS by 900%. I would imagine this could affect all the quantum names. D-Wave, flat after hours, IQ, IQ for some reason was down worse than the rest of them. That one also flat after hours. I mean, you got you might get some people that just sell Regetti and go into other quantum names, which actually could be a tailwind for them. Regetti right there, 2.8% down after hours. Terowolf, we got Terolf. Oh boy. Well, Regetti's earnings make Terowolf look like uh look like some of the best earnings or sorry, I should say Terolf looks like Regetti's EPS miss look uh rather inconsequential. So, Terowolf missed EPS by 2,000%. Not 933%. 2,160% A13 they lost versus five cents a share. How did the street get it that wrong? Either Terolf really messed up or the street doesn't understand this business for there to be a 2,000% miss on EPS and then revenue they miss by like a couple hundred thousand. That's not a big deal. Revenue is up 87% year-over-year. EPS is down 1700% year-over-year. Like it's got to be the street or either Terwolf had some horrible like accounting stuff and that messed up their earnings or they genuinely like their margins are so bad and they made so much investment and that's leading to a a lack of bottom line growth. But a dollar versus five cents to what the street expected that's kind of ridiculous. Regetti right here down 3%. Terowolf is also down 3%. Not too crazy for Terolf or Regetti considering the size of the miss but both of those down 3%. Yeah, three 933% looks way better than a 2,000% miss. Doug says it's like the market thinks Wolfe was going to move Bitcoin to an entirely new successful business in three months. Look, that's fair. It's just with the IN cipher momentum. That's why I think a lot of people kind of expected the same thing would happen with Terolf. Where's Bit Farms? Bit farms right here back below $4 and 358. But, you know, Terolf hasn't had one of those crazy deals yet outside of the Google investment, right? They don't have now it's dumping down 8%. It didn't have like a Microsoft $10 billion deal. So, you do have to give this one time. But that stock right here down 6.2%. ESTs goes red. There's no numbers. Terowolf down six. We're Getty down two. We should be getting Rocket Lab and AS pretty soon, but those are your first two earnings of the day. Um, yes. Throw at Rock. Yeah. Next. Are we pumping on next? Next is not pumping. Next is flat. Literally nothing on Next. Beyond Meat is up a little bit. Is Beyond Meat today or is it tomorrow? I think it might be tomorrow to be honest. Beyond Meat earnings is November 10th. No, it's today. It should be today. The conference call will be tomorrow. The earnings will be today. Okay. So, we'll find out soon. Corweave, are we moving? Are we moving? We got a 2% move. 3% 3.1. Can the green continue? 3.5. Corre again was at 140 a couple weeks ago. Now down to 105. So it definitely got a hit. I don't know how healthy that green candle is. It's not an immediate immediate move up, but it's trying. Core Reeve right here. Uh you guys, 62% of you said pump, 38% said dump. Coreweave numbers, let me see what we've got. Coreweave up 2.7. Third quarter revenue 1.36 billion versus 1.29. That's a beat on revenue. Uh a beat on EPS. Street thought they would lose 57 cents. They only lost 22 cents. That's actually really good. That's a hell of a beat. That's a beat by freaking 25% on EPS. Big Bear is up 3% after hours. Big Bear don't have the numbers yet, but that is moving. Coreweave not getting a crazy move, but they did have a pretty I mean they dude they're 20 cents away from profitability which has been one of the biggest concerns with this company. Corey right they're up 4.5. Big Bear up 3% EPS of 25%. That is a very strong beat on a capital D. Yeah, Corey's capital intensive. So for them to inch out that margin, I'd be very curious to see what they did. But it's definitely something that I think the street will be happy about. Uh Corey again beat by 57% and then beat by 7% on EPS, which is what we're looking at right here. Negative 22 cents versus 51 cents expected. Nex is report Nex is reporting on October 30th. Okay, I'mma blame June for that. June, you told me Nex was reporting today. You told me Nex was reporting today, June. And now you made me look stupid in front of Matt Money because that's his stock. But if NEX's already reported, then we don't need to focus on Nex. Rocket Lab right there, that's flat. ESTs, that's flat. Big Bear, I don't have their numbers yet. I don't have their numbers yet. Ah, Cora Reeve, she's not holding it. She's not holding it. She's trying. Went down from 4%. Almost went red. You can see that red candle right there. Rumble acquires Northern Data, a big data center player in the EU. Are you kidding me? Is Rumble about to get into the data center space? Oh my goodness. Rumble stock after hours flat. It was up 11% on the day though. I guess someone knew that they were going to announce something. Dude, a Rumble legit becomes a data center play. Is every company just realizing their business models suck and they're transitioning to data centers? Is that what they're doing? Is that what's going on? Corewave up 2%. Big Bear still don't have the numbers yet on Big Bear should be getting it soon. Uh if not, then this 2% move. I don't know what the street's reacting to if we don't have numbers on Big Bear. Yeah, Terara Wolf again missed by 2,000% on EPS. Regetti missed by 933% on EPS. Cory beat by 57% on EPS. Cory holding on to a 2% move. They tried crypto, now it's data center. Yeah, dude. I mean, the Bitcoin mining business has obviously never worked out, but you need Bitcoin miners. It's just, you know, the public companies themselves. It's hard for them to produce a profit. Data centers, it's a lot of demand for data centers. So, I mean, I think the pivot makes sense. The question is just the quality of these companies getting into the pivot. CleanSpark got smashed today. CleanSpark. Wow. Why is Clean Spark down 5% after hours? And why was it down? Well, it was down 4% in the day because IN was down and all the other guys were down. I after hours is flat. Cipher after hours is flat. Clean Spark still getting hit. Did they dilute or something? That's weird for CleanSpark to be down 4%. They did an offering. Okay. Of course they did. Of course they did. What's the offering? How much did they dilute by? Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. 1 billion. 1 billion in convertible notes. 1 billion in convert. That's what it looks like. Yeah. Just now, literally at 4:02 p.m., they put out this uh press release. Due 2032, 1 billion of convertible notes. Oh my. I remember when they were a Bitcoin miner, they were doing up to 350 million. So, they definitely have a lot of a lot of convertible notes on the balance sheet. Clean Spar right there down 5.3%. This one got to like 22 a week ago, but this one's still getting hit. Rocket Lab, the call is at five. I think the actual earnings should be at like now, 4:15. So, we should be getting those numbers any second now. Um, Big Bears up three, don't have their numbers yet. Rock club again, we should get a reaction very soon. And Clean Spark with a billion dollar offering. That's why that stock's down. plug did a beat on the top and the bottom. Plug is up 6.3%. After hours, oh, I didn't do a Rocket Lab pump or dump. Oh, let me get that in real quick. Okay, so everyone said pump on coreweave. You're kind of getting a flat reaction. Rocket Lab is not next Tuesday. It is today. Rocket Lab pumper dump. Still don't have Big Bear numbers. Well, let me just go to their website, dude. Let me just go to their website. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Big Bear. Nope. Not on the website. I don't know what the street's reacting to. Not on the website. Wait, is this the No. Do I got it? Yes, I got it. Okay, I think I have it. I think I have it. Um, oh boy, these. Okay, so all right. So, uh, let me know if you see a Rocket Lab move, but let me get into Big Bear. Don't have the Rocket Lab stuff yet. All right, Big Bear. There's a lot of stuff to read. However, revenues down 20% year-over-year to 33 million. Gross margin was 22%. That's down 3% from 25.9. Net income was 2.5 million compared to a net loss last year. So, they are profitable. Non-GAAP adjusted IBIDA of negative 9.4 compared to positive 900,000 last year. So, they're down year-over-year on adjusted IBIDA. And then SGNA of 25.3. That's up 8 million year-over-year, backlog of 376 million. So, the company is growing negative 20% with negative or with uh declining margins, not negative margins, but declining margins and negative non-GAAP adjusted EVA. We'll go back into the numbers, but I don't know if that's a beat or a miss. I'll look at the expectations, but those are the results from their website for Big Bear. Big Bear now is down 1.2. was just up three. Just went red. Rocklab, we got a move 2%. That's a candle. The candle is green. 2.9. Okay, we should be seeing more soon. 5391. Let me see if I can get the numbers real quick. We should get it. Rocket Lab. Oh, we got a double beat. Wow. Rocket Lab. Oh my goodness. They beat EPS by 70%. Street thought they will lose 10 cents a share. They only lost three cents. I think they're getting ready for profitability. I think Rocket Lab is getting ready for gap profitability in the very near future. Revenue they beat by 2%. 151 was what the street expected. They came in at 155. Revenue is up 48% year-over-year. EPS is up 70% year-over-year. My goodness, you're getting a welldeserved 5% move. move. Now, Rockab did hit 70 uh a month ago, so I know we're not at those levels, but definitely deserves a positive earnings reaction, right? They're up 6% 7% after hours on Rock Lab. AS going the opposite direction, down 5%. Uh as numbers, okay, so the street expected 22 million in revenue. They came in at 14 million. I thought AS doesn't even do revenue. What I'm looking at says they they they they had 14 million in revenue, which technically that's good, right? There's still some revenue, but they did miss by 33% on revenue. EPS, they missed by 67%. Street thought they would only lose 27 cents a share. They ended up losing 45 cents a share. ESTs now recovering a little bit. It was down seven, now it's down two. So maybe you got people coming in to buy. Rocket Lab, look at that 9% move, baby, on RocketLab after hours as they are very close to profitability. Big Bear just went up 7%. Looks like the street likes those numbers even with the negative growth year-over-year. Uh, I'll check the expectations. I would imagine it'd have to be better than expectations for the street to be excited about. They also mentioned they're acquiring a company. That could also be why the street is happy about Big Bear. Uh, yeah, Big Bear the Street thought they would lose seven cents. They ended up losing three. That's a 7 57% beat. And then revenue 33 versus 31. So even though revenue is down 20% year-over-year, EPS is up 50% year-over-year. And they beat on the top of the bottom. That's why you've got Big Bear making an 8% move after hours. It's at 621. It was at 850 last week. Came all the way down to five bucks. So, you're seeing that rebound, which is nice to see if you bought in today. That's up 9% right here after hours. Rockab up 7%. ESTs down 3%. Okay. I mean, look, Rock Lab and Big Bear beat on the top and the bottom. That's the bullish part. Plug Power also beat on the top and the bottom. Uh, we'll get into more of Rocket Lab's earnings in a second. ESTs missed on the top and the bottom, but then again, I don't think the street tends to care that much about that. Otherwise, they wouldn't even have the valuation that they have right now. 6650 after hours, that's down three. Regetti had an ugly miss, only down two. Not that crazy. Terrible. If had a really ugly miss, only down four. It goes to show how different how much difference uh a week makes, right? If all these companies reported on like Thursday last week, you know, they might not have been able to only be down a couple percentage points, but you know, with the S&P up 1.5% on the day, market could also be a bit more rewarding to some of these names. Terolf down 4%, Big Bear up seven, and Rocket Lab up 7.5. Oxy, I don't have their numbers yet. We know Birkshshire is a major shareholder in Oxy. Oh, we do. Oxy they beat on EPS by 33% 65 cents versus 49 cents expected and then revenue uh they missed inconsequentially 6.7 versus 6.74. Revenue is down 6% year-over-year. Uh EPS is down 35% year-over-year. Oxy's down 1% after hours. Coreweave goes red even though I thought they had a I think Cororee and Rocket Lab crushed it, dude. I think Corey even Rocket Lab crushed it just on a earnings per share basis eventually these companies have to be profitable and that really fights back against all the arguments around you know these companies are frothy they're not profitable well if they're getting I mean even big bear is only three cents away from profitability it's not like big bear is that far away I know revenue is declining year-over-year but they are very I mean you would imagine in the next at least two quarters so call it Q226 or Q126 Rocket Lab and Big Bear would be profitable core does guidance on the call or at least they do some of their spending guidance on the call. So that's why the call will be very important. I remember last time the stock was up like 10% during the call because of some good guidance they gave. But uh when they get to the call, we'll see what they have to say. We'll see if we can get some coverage on these names. Then we'll get to some of the Trump quotes and then we'll go deeper into Rocket Lab. But my goodness, what an earnings from Rocket three cents away from profitability is very very exciting right here. Uh, we also have Paramount. Let me pull up Corey first and then we'll get into Paramount and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Posting 22 cents, but we're not going to compare because Cororey, which is a GPU as a service company, provided a gap number. But for their revenues, they came in stronger at $1.36 billion for the quarter. Another key metric for this company is their revenue backlog. The RPOS similar to what Oracle calls it. They are saying that they posted $55 billion in the quarter. That is up from 30 uh billion just last quarter. So you can see a significant increase there. In terms of guidance, we'll get that on the earnings call. And I just want to end with the non-GAAP operating margin that came in at 16%. So higher than the street anticipated at almost 14%. This is the third quarter for this company as a publicly traded firm.
>> Wow. Revenue doubled in the backlog. My goodness, there is a lot of freaking demand for these GPUs. Cory have already had a very very healthy backlog. The fact that they said that doubled this quarter, that's pretty crazy. So, let's go through Rock Lab and then we'll read what happened on the core call and then we'll keep going from there. Rock Lab, what do we got? Uh Peter Beck, this past quarter we once again delivered record revenue at 155 million at record gap gross margins at 37%. And a new annual launch record is just days away with progress across major space systems and programs, record backlog of our contracts for launch services business and welltimed strategic M&A in growth areas that are well aligned with next generation defense programs like Golden Dome and the space development ay's future constellations. Our momentum is strong and we're poised to deliver long-term exciting growth. Fourth quarter they're guiding for 180 million gap gross margins of 37 to 39. That's pretty incredible for a hardware intensive business like Rocket Lab. To get those margins is not not bad at all. Non-GAAP gross margins of 45% opex of 122 to 128 um EBIT a loss of 29 million non-GAAP operating expense of 113. They're saying we expect interest income of net 3.5 million. I wonder if that gets them to at least 1 cent a share of profitability potentially, but again, three cents away, it looks like that can happen. And they talked about all the things that they've been able to do over the past quarter, including acquisitions and getting a lot more of those deals. Neutron likely is on the way. Updating our Neutron schedule that has a rocket arriving at Rocket Lab launch complex 3 in Q1 2026. Wow. With the first launch thereafter pending the successful completion of the vehicle's qualification testing and acceptance program. I don't know if that means Neutron is officially ready in Q1 2026, but I think that means that it's getting set up definitely by the end of 2026 for Neutron to be good to go. Not bad. Not bad. I guess on the call they're going to talk a lot more about Neutron, but that's what you got from Rocket Lab. Incredible. Incredible quarter right here. Rocket Lab right here. 9% folks. 5678 after hours. Amazing. Amazing stuff for RocketLab. Okay. Cororeweave CEO. We've delivered an exceptional third quarter, setting new records for revenue and almost doubling our revenue backlog to more than 55 billion. Holy crap, dude. Our performance reflects disciplined execution across every part of our business from scaling infrastructure to expanding capacity to deepening customer relationships and advancing our software and services. Core's position as the essential cloud for AI has never been stronger as we drive growth through focus and innovation to power the next generation of AI. This is super bullish Nvidia, super bullish AMD, super bullish Nebus, Irene, Cipher. I know all those companies are different, but if a company like Corey, which at the end of the day is a neocloud, is able to double revenue backlog the way they are doing it means demand should be high. It means demand should be high. They entered into a 14.2 billion agreement with Meta. That one we talked about a while ago. They secured a ton of different NVL72 GB300 systems. In terms of the actual numbers, revenue, yeah, basically a double. Uh, opex has also doubled. Operating income margins at 4%. Now, again, that one, they're 20 cents away from profitability. That's going to get there. You would imagine net loss is negative 8%. Again, that looks like in a couple quarters that's going to turn into net income that's positive on a gap basis. And then net interest, they have 310 million. Their debt to equity ratio is the biggest thing on Coreweave that gets people to be afraid. In fact, one of the reasons people like Nebus when I was doing the Nebus deep dive, the the biggest thing I saw the difference between Nebius and Cororeweave is the amount of debt that one was taking on versus the other. Now, Coreweave is also, you know, when you have 55, you know, Nebius does not have 55 billion in backlog, but uh and that's why and it's because they're taking on all that debt to buy all those GPUs, but still that is kind of the core difference between them. But investors are willing to give Corv that premium. Corv right there down about.3% after hours, basically flat, not making a crazy move. Nebius up a little bit after hours. D-Wave's up a little bit and then Big Bear 11% as it's continuing to get a move now 12.9 for Big Bear. Let me go to the Big Bear earnings. We looked at the headline numbers. Let's read what management said and then we'll keep going from there. We announced a definitive agreement to acquire Ask Sage, a fast growing generative AI platform for secure distribution of AI models and agentic AI capabilities built specifically for defense and national security agencies. Askage is expected to deliver annual recurring revenue of approximately 25 million in 2025, demonstrating a year-on-year increase of approximately six times their ARR. Big Bear is paying 250 million for a company doing 25 million. So, they're paying 10 times sales. I don't know if that's a good multiple, but nonetheless, that's what they're paying. I have to go deeper into what Ask Sage even is and if that's worth paying that multiple, but they're paying 250 million for that company that's going to be doing 25 million in revenue. Sequential improvement to the balance sheet, record cash balance of 456 million. Uh guidance is 125 to 140 million. That's down from last year at 180 million, but they are keeping their guidance where it is. CEO says, "Today, I'm thrilled to announce that Big Bear AI has signed a definitive agreement to acquire Ask Sage. Ask Sage already supports more than 100,000 users on 16,000 government teams across hundreds of commercial companies. It is a turnkey platform that's in production today at scale in environments that matter the most. By integrating Asage with Big Bear AI, we are creating what the market has been asking for, a secure integrated AI platform that connects software, data, and mission services in one place. Despite delays resulting from the government shutdown, we believe the potential for new businesses in the field of broader security and defense remains strong. And we expect to see those opportunities including accelerated spending resulting from the big beautiful bill to materialize into contracts next year. Big Bear remains in a very strong position to benefit from the important task of delivering cutting edge security and technology solutions to support national defense and the defense industrial base subject to uh applicable approvals. We look forward to closing the assage acquisition and continuing to execute on our M&A strategy. Okay, so they bought a company for 10 times sales. They're blaming the shutdown for why they weren't able to increase their revenue guidance. Uh and then third, they beat on the top and the bottom. So, you've got some some things that are kind of good, kind of bad. I don't know if buying a company at 10 times sales to be able to make the numbers look a little bit better going into 2026 is the best idea. Granted, if they are getting a 100,000 users integrated into this government platform, maybe that's something beneficial. I am a bit biased here with Pounder. They don't do acquisitions and Pounder is also an AI company. And when I think about when a company does an acquisition, I ask myself, you know, did the company do this because they needed to artificially create demand or is are they doing this because it's actually a creative? So that's you have to go deeper into the business model to understand that which I have not done. Uh so that that that could be one of the things that maybe is not the best. Uh the thing that's the that is really good is that they beat earnings projections on the top and the bottom. And so you know with Wall Street perception is reality. If you're beating the perception of losing 7 cents and 31 million in revenue, even if it's declining year-over-year, as long as you beat those estimates, that's what the street cares about. And I think that's why the stock right here is up 15% after hours as it's getting their move. They needed this to get TSA contracts. Yeah. I mean, I've got to go deeper into SSH. I have no idea what the what the acquisition is for. 10 times sales though is aggressive, dude. 10 times sales feels aggressive because you got to ask yourself how long is it going to take them for that acquisition to become that accretive. Now granted they may be thinking there's a different way they can position it with the overall platform that they're offering to governments to be able to you know make an argument. Uh I don't like that they're blaming the shutdown for no products. Last time they kind of did the same thing. They blamed something else and well last time they didn't even have an excuse. Last time they just said that you know uh we are optimistic that the big beautiful bill will create opportunities for us but not increasing the revenue guidance for this year means that you know obviously those opportunities are not materializing. Rock lab right here up 7% big bear up 14%. Pounder shareholder says 10 times sales is aggressive. Okay, but I think there's a difference between Pounder and some of these other companies. That's all that's that's all I'm saying. But look, at the end of the day, stocks up 15%. If you own the stock, you don't really care. stock's making a move. So, they beat on the top and the bottom. That's what matters. Acquisition could be very accretive and that's probably what the street is giving them the credit for. No update to increased guidance, but if the shutdown really is the reason, then the shutdown's about to be done in a couple days. And so, maybe Q4 they actually end up beating on the fiscal year uh targets because they end up getting some more contracts in the last two months. We know that the government tends to spend a decent chunk of money going into Q4 and that could be the tailwind for Big Bear. Big Bear, right? They're up 14% on the day. Rocket Lab up 6% on the day. What's the difference? Well, one company is growing 63% with operating margins of 51%. The other company is not growing at all. That's that's the difference. Then again, you know, it's a $2 billion company compared to a $500 billion company. So Big Bear is a small cap. A lot of things can move Big Bear and that's why you're seeing it move right now. Rock Lab, that's up 6%. AS that's up 1.5%. Oxy is flat. Regetti is down two. Plugs up two. Rockab I do think is the story of the day as they are very close to profitability. Rocklab's just one of those companies you want to see get profitable as well because they're such a good company. They're executing in so many ways and they were like losing 20 cents a share last year. So the fact that they're I would say one quarter away from profitability seems bullish. Here are the earnings for Paramount and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Julia.
>> Hey Morgan. This is the first earnings in the combined company from the combined company Paramount Sky Dance. The company reporting an aggregate in six of 6.7 billion in netted revenues for the entire quarter and an aggregate adjusted loss of 12 cents per share. That's for the Paramount Global Company pre- merger as well as the period in which the companies were combined. Um TV revenue a little bit lighter than expected but direct to consumer revenue coming in stronger than expected. Um the company also guiding for 2026 um for total revenue of $30 billion says saying that'll be led by a healthy acceleration in DTOC revenue with global profitability.
>> Now Paramount from my understanding also is trying to deal with a lot of different mergers and acquisitions. So you got the stock 2% move. Looks like fiscal year guidance is reasonable. Uh that was the last earnings that we had today. But really the story after hours is Rocket Lab and Big Bear. Big Bear 15% move 660 and Rocket Lab almost a 10% move at 7.5 on the day. Nebas versus Big Bear. I would say these are different companies having researched uh Nebus more deeply. There are obviously some SAS components to Nebus, but you know the real story is what they're doing with data centers. Um, Big Bear is an AI company. They are selling software. They're trying to get reoccurring revenue on contracts with that software and trying to create a margin that's attractive enough. 140 million is what they are charging or what they're guiding for this year. They're trading at two and a half billion. So, you know, you're paying basically 14 times sales for the entire company. again at two billion. It doesn't take a lot to move this thing which is also important to understand. Um it was not in the top 20 stocks traded in the options market today. Nvidia, Tesla, Pounder, I bet and Open Door were the top five. SoFi was number six. Then you had AMD and Apple. Beyond Meat was actually up there. Big Bear is one of the it is a big name traded in options. It didn't make the top 20 today, but you do have it show up many times on this top 20 list for options. Why did I rent dump today? Honestly, I don't know. Probably the same reason that Cororee is not really catching a bid even though they had really good earnings. Core now down 2%. I'm telling you guys, I think one thing that's freaking out the market is this debt for data center stuff. I've been trying to research a lot more about it and it's not bad. It's about a hundred billion in debt when you look at all the numbers together. You know, we we've had trillions of dollars committed to spend. So, a hundred billion out of, you know, three, four trillion is not that crazy. It's not like, you know, this is like a trillion dollars worth of debt, but it's something that I think the street's just trying to understand. And until they fully understand that, there's going to be some choppiness. Cory, right, they're down 1.5%. Rocket Lab holding seven would not surprise me if Rocket Lab takes a breather. I mean, Rocket Lab's very volatile. Would also not surprise me if it continues to go higher. Same thing with Big Bear. I mean, 15% move is pretty big. Now, the call for Big Bear, they don't really ask or take questions. So, I don't think you're going to get any Q&A if I'm not Last time they didn't do it, right? So, this time maybe they do, but if they don't, I'll go to their website. Then it's going to be a quick call. Then we got Cororeweave at um we have Cororeweave in 25 minutes. Core weave in 25 minutes. So, Matt Money is already live. I'm going to link Matt's channel right now for those that uh want to watch Rock Lab. I'm sure they're doing some great analysis on Rocklab and that call is probably going to happen very soon. So, I'm putting Matt's link in the chat. I will be covering Coreweave in the next 25 minutes and we'll take a look at Big Bear right now and see what else they say. Yeah, Tess says it was a very short 20-minute call. Okay, let me go to their website. Let's pull up their call right now and just see what we can get. Um, okay, let's pull this up. Big Berry Eyes growth. Over the past several months, we've built and refined a disciplined thesis driven approach to M&A. One where every investment is structured to advance our mission, strengthen our differentiation, and build long-term value. Our acquisition framework focuses on three areas where we believe that Big Eye is best positioned to combine our mission expertise with cutting edge technology and achieve greater impact for our performance and investors. First, disruptive AI mission solutions for national security. Unlocking the power of AI for the defense mission is essential to America's continued leadership in global security and to maintaining our edge in strategic competition with potential adversaries. We're evaluating high growth companies that have built secure, scalable, mission tailored AI solutions.
>> Okay, there's not much that we're getting from that. I'll go back to it in 10 minutes and see if they do any Q&A. If not, they're going to be done in about 15 minutes. if they're doing the same thing that they did last time. But we'll have Core Weave at 5:00 PM and we'll see what we got from there. Again, Matt's covering Rocklab, putting his link in the chat. I think that call starts in like 20 minutes as well for Rock Lab. So, um you will get that call at around 5:00 PM Eastern. Okay. So, the summary and we'll get on to some of these Trump quotes in a second. The summary of earnings today. Plug Power beat on the top and the bottom, stocks up. Core Wee beat on the top and the bottom. Stocks down, not crazy down. Terwolf, bad miss on EPS. Stocks down 4%. Not even that big of a deal. Uh, Beyond Beats up 6.72%. I'll get their numbers in a second because I don't think we looked at their numbers. ESTs, they did do 14 million in revenue. I'm looking at the website right now, which can someone tell me if is this the first quarter they've actually generated revenue, like real revenue, or or have they done that before? They have 3.2 billion in cash, so they have a very healthy balance sheet. and 14 million in revenue. So, we can't say ASS doesn't do revenue anymore if they just did 14 million in revenue. Rock Lab, amazing quarter. That's up 7.32%. Uh Big Bear just went from up 16% to up 10%. Uh but still, they beat on the top and the bottom. So, very good for Big Bear as well. And then you got Regetti that missed on EPS. That's down 2.4. That's what we got on all these earnings. Okay, Trump. What the heck has Trump been saying? Is he still live? Let's see. Is he actually still live? He might be taking questions still. No, he's not. Okay, so let me pull this up and let's just go to Q&A and see if we can get some of these moments and we'll do Core Reeve in a few minutes. AS is a billion in revenue commitment according to the press release. that well that's the reason why um that's the reason why the stock jumped as much in September right with the the partnership that they put out yeah right here secured over 1 billion in aggregate contracted revenue commitments from partners as commercial efforts and integration with partner yeah I think this was one of the things that people saw in November when they fell to 36 after that SpaceX news and you know a lot of people expected partnerships with companies like Verizon Vodafone etc we're going to secure a lot of revenue so the revenues coming. It's just not there yet at the, you know, monumental levels that people are expecting, but eventually it will be there. 1 billion in aggregate contracted revenue for AS. Let's go to Beyond Meat real quick and let's see their numbers. That stock is up 6%. Beyond Meat, I do not see their numbers. I do not see any of their numbers. their calls at five. Um, no one has their numbers on Twitter either. Their website's not even loading anymore. Okay, we don't have Beyond Meat. We do not have Beyond Meat. Let's go to Trump. I'll see if I can get Beyond Meat in a second, but let's go to Trump and then we'll keep going from there.
>> Mr. President,
>> behind you, Kaitlin, behind you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. on Syria, can we expect an announcement on a pact uh between Syria and Israel or an announcement on them uh joining the anti-ISIS?
>> You can expect some announcements on Syria. We want to see Syria become a country that's very to remain successful and you know we're a part of Switzerland in the sense that they've been a very good ally. Uh yeah, we're working on them and some others and we're working on others to increase them a little bit too.
>> How close is it to Switzerland? Switzerland. What? You have something to do with Switzerland?
>> Who wants to buy a watch? Who wants to buy a watch?
>> Who wants to buy a nice
>> Who wants to buy a nice Rolex? We'll give Rolex cuz Rolex has been they've been very nice, you know.
>> Now, look, it's a it's a beautiful country. It's It's a small country, but economically very big. So, we're working on something. meeting with the Syrian president earlier today. Marjorie Taylor Green, who is a big ally of yours, said that she would rather see you focused on non-stop domestic policy meetings here at the White House instead of non-stop foreign policy meetings. What's your response to her saying that? And also,
>> okay, this is an important question because MTG has been kind of flaming the Trump administration on healthcare and affordability and all this stuff. So, curious to see how Trump kind of handles this and what he's thinking about the uh sort of outfacing issues that the Republican party is dealing with right now. saying that grocery prices are up and not down as you've said.
>> Yeah. So, uh I don't know what happened to Marie. She's a nice woman, but I don't know what happened. She's lost her way, I think. But, uh I have to view the presidency as a worldwide situation, not locally. I mean, we could have a world that's on fire where wars come to our shores very easily if you had a bad president. We had a horrible president and we ended up with Russia Ukraine and we ended up with other disasters, too. Don't forget I put out eight wars, nine to come. I think I'll get the other one taken care of. But I put out eight wars. Uh, and look at the damage that Russia Ukraine has done to us as a country. I mean, they we spent 350 billion. We're not spending any money anymore. Now they pay us through NATO. You know, I got NATO to go from 2% to 5%. Well, that's very important. Uh, when you're president, you really sort of have to watch over the world because you're going to be dragged into it. Otherwise, you're going to be dragged into a world war. I think if I weren't president, if first of all, it that war would have never happened if I was president. And if I weren't president, that war could have led to World War II. It won't. It's not going to anymore. But when I first got in, I said, "Wow, this situation could lead to World War II." And I got NATO together. I got everybody together. But with all of that, uh, I passed a great big beautiful bill, which is the biggest tax cuts in the history of our country. So when somebody like Marjgerie Taylor Green who's now catering to the other side, I don't know what, you know, I guess she's, you know, got some kind of an act going, but I'm surprised at her.
>> So we can tell the the obvious answer from Trump right here is that he's kind of delegitimizing uh MTG's political approach right here. And at its core, you know, he's going back to the argument about the big beautiful bill, tax cuts, and these are the things I think he's going to have to focus on to kind of bleed into the argument that affordability is actually getting better under his administration. But right there, you can tell he's trying to essentially say MTG doesn't know what's happening. He said she lost her way. And from that perspective, he's going to try to kind of steer the argument in a different direction around those tax cuts. That from his perspective should be the thing that the everyday American actually cares about because it's potentially putting more dollars into their pockets.
>> But when somebody like Marjorie goes over and starts making statements like that, it shows she doesn't know. I don't devote a lot of my time. Let me give you another example. China. China was going to hit us with rare earth. Now, everybody says, "What does that mean?" Magnets. If China refused to give magnets because they have a monopoly on magnets because they were allowed to happen over a 32-year period, uh there wouldn't be a car made in the entire world. There wouldn't be a radio, there wouldn't be a television, there wouldn't be internet, there wouldn't be anything because magnets are such a part. Now, nobody knows what magnets are and not overly sophisticated, but to build a magnet system would take two years. So, if I weren't able to say to China, look, if you're going to do that to us, we're going to charge you 158% tariff. It was 100% on top of 58%. And China called up immediately said, we will make peace. And we made peace. We made a great deal. We made an unbelievable deal. that China's paying tariffs to the United States, not the United States paying tariffs to China, which has always been the way it was. Nobody can believe these deals.
>> Open Door CEO just said tomorrow his family is buying a million dollars worth of stock at the open. I mean, dude, I like the CEO, but goodness, like just tweeting that his family's just letting everybody know his family's going to bid up the stock tomorrow morning. Word for word. Tomorrow is the first day I'm allowed to buy open and my family is buying a million dollars worth of stock at the open. I like him as a CEO. That's just weird to say, dude. Like you could let the filings come out later and then talk about it. Saying that beforehand, it's weird, dude. Is Is that just me or is that kind of weird? Like you don't say that, especially if it's not even you, it's your family. But so when somebody makes a statement about he's devoting time to the world, well the world is the United States because if the world's in trouble or if the world is ripping us off, you know, the world was ripping us off before I came here. Europe was getting massive tariffs. They were sending us 9 10 million cars a year. We were sending them none. They were not taking our our agriculture. We were taking massive amounts of their It was so unfair. Now we have a deal where $950 billion dollars is coming into the United States because of me and because of tariffs. So if I don't do all these things, our country is doing very poorly. So you know, it's easy to say, "Oh, don't worry about the world." But the world is turning out to be our biggest customer. The world is the world was on fire and we could have been in that fire very easily if you didn't have a president that knew what he was doing. What's the question? Can you can you guarantee to Americans that travel is going to go back to normal once the government that travel all the air
>> better than normal? You know why?
>> When the government reopens.
>> Yeah, sure. It'll be much better than normal because we're buying the most sophisticated avionics and you know technology for our control towers and we didn't have that. We had a guy named Budge Boot Edge Edge is the best we just say two edges like off the edge of a cliff. uh which is what where they were taking us by the way. Uh Boot Edge Edge was the secretary of transportation and he spent billions of dollars trying to patch together our air control our air traffic control system which was a conglomeration of all different systems in all different cities. He spent they had hundreds of countries where companies working on it and they were spending billions of dollars and when they turned it on it didn't work. It didn't even work a little bit. That's why you had a helicopter crashing into an airplane that if we had a great system, bells and whistles would have started going off. So, we are now in the process. We're in the final bids of getting the finest system anywhere in the world. I've analyzed it. Sean Duffy has been working really hard on it, doing a fantastic job, by the way. And over the next two or three weeks, we'll be handing out the finest air traffic control system anywhere in the world. All the towers will be be equipped. They were going copper wire into glass wire into other types of wire. And uh if you do anything, you know copper wire doesn't work with glass. You know glass doesn't work with other substances. And they spent billions of dollars and when they turned it on, nothing happened. Okay, we're getting the most sophisticated, all brand new, all brand new. Every control tower will have the same exact system. It'll be the most sophisticated system by far in the world. And what we've done is we've looked around other countries and we've taken the absolute best systems in every different form because there are different you have lots of different companies like IBM and Rathon and a lot of great companies. They're all bidding and we're going to pick the best one and it'll get built relatively quickly and we are going to have the greatest air traffic control system anywhere in the world. Thank you very much everybody. [Applause] I really do think 2026 is going to be a question about affordability. He gets a question about affordability immediately pivots to he solved nine wars, big beautiful bill. All of those are legitimate arguments and all of those are legit talking points that the Trump administration should be holding on to. But at its core, he's not answering that that that that question right about grocery prices because he knows at the end of the day grocery prices are up. I mean, this is just subjective. If you look at the data, there are some things that have come down, but the majority of stuff is up. Now, it's not up like crazy, but it is up and it's having an issue on affordability. I really wonder, and I think the reason this whole $2,000 dividend thing is becoming mainstream from a talking point perspective on Trump, I wonder how the party is going to navigate this issue because there's a lot of ways to respond to it. As Tess says right there, affordability is up across the world. Yeah, dude. I don't even think this argument is real. Like affordability has always been an issue. You're te you're telling me in the past nine months things have become so unaffordable that every single person just simply like like in certain parts of the country 100% which in New York obviously we've seen that but you're telling me it's that much different from this time in 2024 like if that's the case the most important argument during the Biden administration versus Trump uh would have been affordability. It wasn't. It was illegal immigration. It was not the cost of living. I think this is, you know, this is why we spent some time analyzing this Mumani thing. The Mandani election, I think, really created a headline argument around affordability that now every, I guess, Democratic talking point is is hitching on to. And as a result, that could force the Republicans to kind of make an argument around how to defend that the administration is affordable, which look, they've done a bunch of things that can contribute to affordability with tax cuts and uh no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, etc., etc. But that core argument about, hey, grocery prices are down, etc. That's one thing that I think, you know, when MTG starts to go the opposite direction, you could tell it pissed him off. I mean, as soon as he heard her name, he was not happy to have to deal with that question. By the way, this was the tweet by Cass. Dude, I don't get this. I'm sorry. I hope Open Door goes to the moon for everybody, but really, like, if Vlad tweeted, "Hey guys, uh, my family's gonna be buying some Robin Hood stock tomorrow." You would not see me defending that, bro. Like Tanner Roy and I would not be defending that. Like what is this? Tomorrow is the first day I'm allowed to buy open and my family is buying a million. Really? You're going to put an exact number of how much your family is buying and letting the public markets know as a CEO of the company? I mean like he's not going to get investigated because this is the Paul Atkins is very LZ fair and he's not going to go crazy about this. But is open door even up after hours? Because it's just weird, right? It's not just me, right? That's any CEO who were to say that Open Door is up 2% after hours. Of course it is. Why wouldn't it be? It's up 21% of the day, 2%. I mean, if if he's telling you his family's going to bid it up, people are like, "Okay, cool. I'm going to buy some more." No, I understand. If it's not in a blackout blackout period, he's fine. Like, technically, he can get away with saying this. It's just weird, bro, the way he's saying it. Tanner says, "But are they buying it on hood?" I mean, probably they are. But goodness, dude. I don't know. I don't know. That's just weird to be that specific and give a dollar amount and all that. I don't know. He's not going to have a legal issue with that. It's just I don't know. I guess that's how he's embracing social media and that's how he's going to do it. So, there you go. Um, but again, yeah, going to Trump. I mean, what are what what are people thinking? We got eight minutes until the core weave call. Are people thinking that his response was good? It wasn't good. I don't even think it has to be political analysis right here. It's just objectively, you know, if you ask someone a question about grocery prices affordability and then the conversation goes to Russia, Ukraine, you can tell they're trying to obscate it because they don't have the best answer to the question, which look, in one year the guy's not going to get the the country to be affordable. So, I don't even think it's something that you can easily blame Trump for. It's like the economy is not affordable. It's like, okay, we got a lot of different issues. Um, I don't know if you put all the affordability blame on him. But objectively, he dodged the question. And so did Mike Johnson the other day. So it's one of those things where the market's going to have to figure out how much they care about this stuff. Bad response. He just made unrealistic promises when he campaigned. The thing that's confusing me is, dude, affordability was not the concern of the anyone who covered the 2024 election. It was about DEI. Quite frankly, that was a big issue. Um the sort of woke social stuff, right? men and women's sports. Oh, that was like a major thing. And then immigration like this affordab I remember covering that campaign. That was not the number one. That was not Biden's Harris's talking point. It really was. So, it's just it's this thing like came out of nowhere and now it's like the de facto conversation around this. And I guess we're going to have to see what happens. This is because of the impact of the tariffs. Well, I think that's why Trump also made a lot of arguments today about why the tariffs are actually positive. Look, the Supreme Court thing goes the wrong way. I don't know exactly what they're going to be able to do, but I think Trump is trying to gear up to get people to realize that, you know, the tariffs are still very positive. Tess says, "England's been in a cost of living crisis since COVID. I always thought when I'm on your side of the pond, you had a bitffected by it." Yep. I'm not saying the cost of living hasn't gone up. I mean obviously over the past 5 years it's been dramatic and you know we had record levels of inflation and that also caused uh the cost of living to go higher contributed by Republicans and Democrats. I just it's almost like as flat after hours. It's almost like it became a talking point after this Mumani thing and now every time you hear this back and forth it comes down to affordability. And I'm like this was affordability was not a word that people talked about in 2024 during this election. So but this is politics right? politics pivots super quickly and people latch on to an idea and a topic and now I think that's going to be the major concern. Uh Rocket Lab, we are not listening to it. Matt Money is listening to it. I'll put the link to his channel for those that are curious about that. Big Bear, let me see if they're taking questions. Big Bear still up 12%. Rock Lab's up 8.4%. Um let's see if Big Bear is still doing their earnings. And then we got Core Wee in about five minutes. and we'll hear what we have to say or hear what they have to say on the state of AI. Nope, it's done. Okay, so that call ended in 20 minutes. They did not do questions. It's 455. Started at 4:30. Max it could have been was 25 minutes. No Q&A for Big Bear. Stock up 12% after hours. Jay, thanks for the super chat. Affordability became important when the middle class started losing jobs without any wants to replace them. You know, that is a really good point. I mean, one thing that we're forgetting to discuss is um the layoff labor market picture with AI. I know unemployment is still at around 4.3%, which when we actually get the government open and we start to get some more data, maybe that's closer to like 4.5%. But the last reported number we had was 4.3%. I mean, you can start getting a lot more concerns about affordability if you have a lot more layoffs and if people think AI is taking their jobs, which, you know, Amazon laying off 14,000 people, UPS getting ready to lay off 48,000 people. That will bring up the conversation of affordability real quick. And and Trump's kind of in a catch 22 right here because the reason the stock market's at all-time highs is because AI is becoming so good for margin efficiency that it's inevitably leading to people getting laid off. And that's really good for a company's bottom line. The problem is as a president, the number one thing that most presidents care about is job growth. And that's why I was saying last week, it's hard for me to imagine Trump wakes up every morning with negative job growth. Like that's just not what his personality is built for. He'll either say the numbers aren't real or he'll try to make sure that's not the narrative as much as possible, which means he's going to want to try to grow the economy. But if you've got all these companies that have to lay off people because they just don't need these employees because of this advance of AI, the only people that really benefit from that are uset holders. you own Amazon stock, you're going to benefit from that. But Main Street doesn't. And and I and Democrat or Republican, I don't know how any administration is able to handle that because what the administration can't force Amazon to employ people. They can't force them to, you know, not replace 600,000 people with robots. Like technology is technology. And so this is why it's going to be one of those core things I think we're definitely having to pay attention to going over in the next couple years. But that is what we've got right there. Uh Cororeweave, we got three minutes until this call starts and then we'll keep going. Big Bear AI again call is closed. What did we have on the poll? Rocket Lab, 69% of you said pump, 31% said dump. Rocket Lab definitely got a pump. Hopefully the pump continues in the call. And um overall I'm very happy as a Rocket Lab shareholder with that quarter. That was not a bad quarter by any sense of the imagination. AS being flat I think is also a win. AS again has doubled in the past month and a half. So yeah, it's not back at 100, but you can't be too upset about it. Rock Lab 8%. Beyond Meat did not come out yet, guys. And by the earnings, if you go to their website, it says the earnings is November 10. So for everyone saying it's tomorrow, their website says it's today. But I don't see the results anywhere. not on Twitter, not on their website. I mean, I guess some people are thinking 5:00 PM, so maybe in two minutes we'll get the results, but so far has not been out yet. Japan considers using public funds for nuclear projects. Interesting. Okay. I mean you might start having some nation states tap into their country balance sheets to fund new initiatives. I mean if that is nuclear growth led because of data centers and like energy related to data centers that would be quite interesting. The United States has not officially done that outside of the equity stakes that we've taken in some of these companies. Open rate right they're up two% after hours and then Nebius up 2% as well. Did Terwolf go positive? Wow. Terow Wolf went green even after a 900% EPS miss down 4%. Now it's back to green. Clean Spark's still down 3% after the uh billion dollar offering. Rumble is down 1%. Iren's up a little bit after hours. Big Bear still up 12.9%. And then Coreweave is down 1.3. Would you eat Beyond Meat medium rare? That's a good question. The funny thing about Beyond Meat is you got a lot of people that own the stock that are never going to eat their product, but they're obviously buying it for the movement. Uh but yeah, I don't think most people in the name would ever eat the product. I don't think I would. Okay. Uh do we have it? Are we live on Cororeweave? Not yet. We got about 30 seconds and then we should be live. Terolf did 5.2 2 billion in offerings. Their market cap is only 5.8 billion. Look, a lot of these plays are going to have to raise capital. If that capital is accreative, it'll be because they get a lot more hyperscaler deals. If not, it might not be the best use of tapping the the debt markets. You do have more live uh beyond earnings in a second because that should be popping up. I'll put that in the chat, but I think coreweave is
>> 2025 earnings call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question and answer session. To ask a question, press star one on your telephone keypad. To withdraw your question, press star one again. Thank you. It is now my pleasure to turn the calls over to Cororeweave.
>> Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Core Weeb's third quarter 2025 earnings conference call. Joining me today to discuss our results are Mike and Trader CEO and Niden Agarwal CFO. Before we get started, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will include forward-looking statements. Actual
>> It definitely sounds like AI. It definitely sounds like that's some AI
>> differ materially are set forth in today's earnings press release and in our quarterly report on form 10Q to be filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events. During this call, we will present both GAAP and certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. The earnings press release and an accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investors.coreweave.com. A replay of this call will also be available on our investor relations website. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike.
>> Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us. Cororeweave once again delivered an exceptional quarter showcasing the accelerating momentum underlying our business as AI adoption proliferates globally across industries. We continue to operate in a highly supply constrained environment where the demand for core best-in-class AI cloud platform far exceeds available capacity. This insatiable customer demand is a clear signal that the world's leading companies trust Coreweave to power their most critical AI workloads. In Q3, we beat expectations, delivering revenue of 1.4 billion, up 134% year-over-year. We added over 25 billion in revenue backlog in a third quarter alone, bringing us to over 55 billion in revenue backlog to end Q3, almost double Q2 and approaching four times year to date. Further, Coree has reached 50 billion in RPO faster than any cloud in history. These results demonstrate the deep confidence customers have in core. the company they trust as their essential cloud for artificial intelligence. We continue to scale aggressively even as the industry remains capacity constrained. We expanded our active power footprint by 120 megawatts sequentially to approximately 590 megawatt while growing our contracted power capacity over 600 megawatts to 2.9 gawatt. This leaves us well positioned for future growth with more than one gawatt of contracted capacity available to be sold to customers that we expect to largely come online within the next 12 to 24 months. In Q3, we executed large-scale compute contracts with many of our largest customers, including Meta and Open AI. Each represents a meaningful expansion of existing relationships and a diversification away from any single customer. We also grew our relationship with a leading hyperscaler marking the sixth contract with this customer to date. In fact, nine of our 10 largest customers have now executed multiple agreements with us. The only exception being a new customer we onboarded in Q3. Cororeweave is the force multiplier that empowers pioneers to accelerate breakthroughs in AI innovation. These are the world's most sophisticated AI organizations and once they experience the performance, flexibility and reliability of coreweave cloud, they consistently expand with us. That is the strongest validation we could ask for. Our exceptional growth illustrates just how quickly AI adoption is progressing beyond the frontier AI labs and hyperscalers. Broader global demand and our recent large winds are driving diversification of our revenue base. For example, the number of customers that exceeded 100 million of revenue over the last 12 months tripled year-over-year. AI native and enterprises across sectors are embracing coreweave to transform operations and unlock new sources of innovation, productivity and growth. At the forefront of foundation model development, poolside selected core to power its mission to build artificial general intelligence and enable the deployment of agents across enterprises. While periodic labs is using coreweave to push the boundaries of scientific discovery and computational research at the application layer, we added AI native customers like Jasper who chose Coreweave as their cloud partner as they transform the digital marketing landscape. We are also seeing incredible momentum within enterprises. CrowdStrike chose Coreweave to advance the development of AI agents for cyber security while Rakuten is using our platform to transform their visual language models helping to achieve greater transparency, reproducibility and speed in their AI workloads. We also saw further expansion with a wide range of enterprise customers including a leading software design platform and a large telco operator in the US. Our reach now extends into the public sector, a market with unique performance and security requirements. We recently launched Corei Federal to bring our cloud services to the US government agencies and the defense industrial base. Already NASA is leveraging our services to advance scientific exploration at its jet propulsion lab. We are honored to help strengthen America's AI infrastructure, enabling agencies to accelerate innovation and address critical missions and our national interests. These recent wins underscore that we are enterprise ready with our customer base broadening across verticals and geographies. We are excited to welcome John Jones as our first chief revenue officer. John joins us from AWS where he served as global head of startups and venture capital. John is a strong addition to our team and will play an important role scaling our global revenue organization and driving expansion through this next phase of growth. Next, as I move to discuss our growing data center footprint, I want to briefly touch on our previously proposed acquisition of Core Scientific, which was terminated in October. While the deal made sense strategically for both companies, the valuation required by their shareholders was simply not a price that was appropriate for Cororeweave, particularly because the outcome of the transaction in no way adversely impacts our ability to achieve our growth ambitions in the coming years. Instead, we will continue to work closely with Core Scientific on the approximately 590 megawatts of capacity we have already leased. Our disciplined approach to expanding our capacity footprint ensures we are meeting the surging global demand for Core Weeav's cloud services. As I mentioned, we grew our contracted power capacity to 2.9 gawatts this quarter as we diversified across size, geography, and developers, enhancing resilience and flexibility across our portfolio. As of Q3, no single data center provider represents more than approximately 20% of our contracted power portfolio. In the past quarter, we added eight new data centers across the US, strengthening our domestic coverage with additional expansions underway across Europe, including a major new presence in Scotland, which is being developed in partnership with the UK government. And as we announced over the course of the summer, we have embarked on self-build projects to further accelerate our footprint and provide us greater operational control. While we are experiencing relentless demand for our platform, data center developers across the industry are also enduring unprecedented pressure across supply chains. In our case, we are affected by temporary delays related to a third-party data center developer who is behind schedule. This impacts fourth quarter expectations which Nitton will discuss shortly. Having said that, the customer affected by the current delays has agreed to adjust the delivery schedule and extend the expiration date. As a result, we maintain the total value of the original contract and the customer preserves their capacity for the full duration of the initial agreement, demonstrating the confidence they have in our ability to provide the most performance solutions in market. We are incredibly proud of our technical accomplishments and our customers continue to tell us that Coreweave is the absolute best place to run AI workloads.
>> Corweave down 5%.
>> In the third quarter, we continue to deliver many of the initial scale deployments of the GB200's while once again being first to market this time with the GB300's, further highlighting our incredible track record of operational excellence. Cororeweave's industry leadership is unmatched. We are the only cloud provider to submit MLPF inference result for GB300, setting the benchmark for realworld AI performance. And just last week, semi analysis once again recognized our dominance, awarding core its highest possible distinction, its platinum cluster max ranking for the second time, ahead of more than 200 providers, including the hyperscalers and emerging NeoClouds. No other cloud has achieved this once. Cororewave has done it twice, underscoring yet again that Cororee stands alone at the forefront of the AI cloud. Demand for AI cloud technology remains robust across generations of GPUs. For example, in Q3, we saw our first 10,000 plus H100 contract approaching expiration. Two quarters in advance, the customer proactively recontracted for the infrastructure at a price within 5% of the original agreement. This is a powerful indicator of customer satisfaction as well as the long-term utility and differentiated value of the GPUs run on Coreavee's platform. Coreweave is the world's first AI cloud at hypers scale comprising compute storage networking and software purpose-built for AI workloads. Our growing cloud portfolio is underpinned by an expanding suite of software and services that help our customers build, train, and deploy new products faster. In addition to mission control, our proprietary orchestration solution, which is critical to autonomously operate our AI cloud at the bleeding edge. We recently launched Coreweave AI object storage, a fully managed storage service that eliminates any friction of moving data between regions, clouds, and tiers with zero egress or transaction fees. Corewave's AI object storage delivers the highest amount of throughput of AI workloads while cutting the customers cost by more than 75%. We have already seen tremendous interest in this offering adding a number of initial customers including frontier AI labs like Mistral. Across our entire storage platform, we have seen rapid customer adoption, eclipsing 100 million in ARR in Q3. Combined with our unique global network backbone purpose-built for AI, this positions Coreweee as the hub for customers and their key AI workloads, enabling consistent, best-in-class performance and seamless user experiences when utilizing Coreeave Cloud or a secondary provider. We've supplemented these capabilities with further expansion of our observability and security suites to ensure that Core Weave is best positioned to handle all of our customers critical workloads regardless of the use case or geography. Our role over the last few years has been to support the pioneers who are developing and improving AI. Now, we are expanding our role to help put AI to work. From the tools that developers require to build AI to the solutions that the physical world requires to adopt AI, we've used M&A as a key tool to accelerate this journey, including the recently announced acquisitions of Openpipe, Marim Mo, and Monolith. With OpenPI, we quickly integrated their solutions into our broader fine-tuning product suite and introduced the first publicly available serverless reinforcement learning tool. With Marimo, we are expanding Cory's exposure to and impact within the open-source community. Starting with entry-level exploration and prototyping, both open pipe and marimo fit seamlessly with the capabilities of weights and biases where we are rapidly growing the developer base reliant on coreweave's holistic platform. With Monolith, we are expanding these capabilities into the physical world to unlock the monetization of AI today. Initially focusing on industrial use cases with an established enterprise customer base and mature workloads including leading auto OEMs like Nissan and Stalantis through the rapid and successful launch of new products and services. We are expanding our addressable market and growing with our customers. We are fundamentally evolving the capabilities of Cororeweave which is creating beach heads and expansion opportunities into new markets. All in the service of further supporting the rapid growth of AI and enabling AI builders and innovators to get to market faster and more reliably and drive ROI. Our engagements are getting more sophisticated as evidenced by our partnership with CrowdStrike, which will unlock and accelerate partner-driven growth. Our new storage product and partnership with vast data is another example of accelerating both our product portfolio and partner go-tomarket motions and allows us to compete in new markets where we previously had limited or no offerings. This facilitates customer-driven platform adoption and productled growth, creating tailwinds for our business. As I close, I want to emphasize what truly sets Coreweave apart. We are the essential cloud for AI. Combining unmatched technical and operational excellence with a rapidly diversifying customer base, we deliver the most performant infrastructure, the fastest time to market, and the most advanced capabilities in the industry. The world's leading AI innovators choose Cororeweave because we enable them to move faster, scale smarter, and achieve outcomes that simply are not possible anywhere else. Our momentum has never been stronger and the opportunities ahead continue to expand. Powered by exceptional products and extraordinary team and unrivaled execution, Cororeweave is ready to enter the next phase of growth as a full stack AI service provider and hyperscaler. The future runs on Cororeweave and we are just getting started. With that, here's Nitton. Thanks, Mike. And good afternoon, everyone. Our impressive third quarter results reinforce the relentless demand for Corev and our focused execution. Okay, so they're probably going to spend like 10 minutes going through the numbers. Uh stocks getting hit, guys. You You guys said you heard guidance. I didn't hear guidance. Maybe I missed it. If anyone has the number that they heard, let me know. Core down 5%. It was down almost 7%. Hit 9675. I have no idea what they said in terms of guidance. Maybe I just missed it, but uh there's got to be some number. Beyond Meat's down 3%. They missed EPS by about 20 cents. They missed revenue by um they beat revenue by 2 million. So they beat revenue by two, missed EPS by uh 16 cents. 47 versus 31 on a loss. That's why that stock is down. And then the gross profit, yeah, 10.3% margins for beyond me.
>> Demand remains robust for not just the Blackwell platform, but across our GPU portfolio. In the third quarter, we signed a number of deals for older generations of GPUs, adding new customers, and recontracting existing capacity. The breadth of demand for core's cloud services has enabled us to reduce our customer concentration significantly. Today, no single customer represents more than approximately 35% of our revenue backlog, down from approximately 50% last quarter and even more meaningfully from approximately 85% to begin the year. Additionally, as of Q3, more than 60% of our revenue backlog is tied to investment grade customers. This is what successful execution against our stated goal of platform and customer diversification looks like. Operating expenses in the third quarter were 1.3 billion, including stockbased compensation expense of 144 million. We continue to ramp our investments in data center and server infrastructure to execute against our growing revenue backlog which contributed to the increase in our cost of revenue and technology and infrastructure spend in Q3. In addition, the increase in sales and marketing was driven by investments in marketing and scaling our go-to market organization to capture the rapid growth of AI opportunities across enterprises and AI natives. The increase in GNA was driven by professional services and headcount. Adjusted operating income for Q3 was $217 million compared to $125 million in Q3 of 2024. Our Q3 adjusted operating margin was 16%. Adjusted operating income was better than expected due to higher revenue, lower costs due to timing of data center deliveries from our third party partners, and improved fleet efficiencies. Net loss for the third quarter was $110 million compared to a $360 million net loss in Q3 of 2024. Interest expense for Q3 was $311 million compared to a $14 million in Q3 of 2024 due to increased debt to support the scaling of our infrastructure partly offset by the benefit from better interest rates on our debt as we make further progress in lowering our cost of capital. Adjusted net loss for Q3 was $41 million compared to approximately break even in Q3 of 2024, while adjusted IBIDA for Q3 was $838 million compared to $379 million in Q3 of 2024, increasing more than 2x year-over-year. Our adjusted IBIDA margin was 61%. Turning to capital expenditures, capex in Q3 totaled $1.9 billion, lower than anticipated due to the delays Mike mentioned related to deliveries from a third party data center provider. The meaningful growth in construction in progress to $6.9 billion, an increase of $2.8 billion quarter overquarter is a direct result. As a reminder, construction in progress represents infrastructure not yet in service and is excluded from CAPEX until it is deployed. Now, let's turn to our balance sheet and strong liquidity position. As of September 30th, we had $3 billion in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities. Growing rapidly and operating at scale demands a strategic approach to securing capital. Corv has established itself as the leading AI cloud and the leading innovator in financing the infrastructure required to power the world's most advanced workloads for enterprises and AI labs. We continue to make great progress in strengthening our capital structure and lowering our cost of capital. In Q3, we amended the DDTL 2.0 facility by increasing its remaining drawable capacity by over $400 million to create a new $3 billion tranch at sofur plus425, which is significantly below the original cost of the facility. As we discussed previously, we also closed TDDTL 3.0 O in the third quarter priced at sofa plus 400 which represents a 900 basis point decrease from the non-investment grade portion of our prior facility. Going forward, we expect to continue to be able to finance at lower spreads as our capital providers increasingly appreciate our best-in-class execution as well as the durable cash flow and visibility that underpin our take or pay customer contracts. Further, we raised $1.75 billion in senior nodes in July, extending our exposure to the high yield market at a cost 25 basis points lower than our inaugural offering in May. Year to date, Corv has successfully secured $14 billion in debt and equity transactions to support our execution on our rapidly growing backlog and efficient scaling for long-term growth. Other than payments related to OEM vendor financing and self-advertising debt through committed contract payments, we have no debt maturities until 2028. Turning to tax, in Q3, we recorded a non-cash tax benefit primarily due to the impact of one big beautiful bill. While the size of the impact to Q3 was one time in nature due to a year-to-ate catchup, we expect the change in law to enable Corv to realize cash tax savings in future periods. Now turning to guidance, as mentioned, the delays in power shell delivery associated with the data center provider will have an impact on our fourth quarter results. These delays are temporary and as Mike noted, the affected customer has agreed to adjust the delivery schedule to preserve their capacity for the full duration and the total value of the original agreement. With that backdrop, we now expect 2025 revenue in the range of 5.05 to 5.15 billion. In addition, we anticipate 2025 adjusted operating income between 690 to $720 million and expect to end the year with over 850 megawatts of active power. In Q4, we will be bringing online some of the largest scale deployments in our company's history. This will have a near-term impact on adjusted operating margin due to the timing difference between when data center costs are first incurred and when we start recognizing revenue. We expect 2025 interest expense in the range of 1.21 to 1.25 billion driven by increased debt to support our demandled capex growth partly offset by an increasingly lower cost of capital. Moving to capex, we now expect 2025 capex in the range of 12 to 14 billion. We expect this reduction in capex from a prior guidance will be mostly reflected by a corresponding increase in construction in progress due to the buildup of infrastructure waiting to be deployed following the delivery of powered shell capacity. As such, the vast majority of the remaining capex we had previously anticipated to land in Q4 will now be recognized in Q1. In addition, given the significant growth in our backlog and continued insatiable demand for our cloud services, we expect capex in 2026 to be well in excess of double that of 2025. These investments in our infrastructure platform will strengthen our competitive modes and support our continued hyperrowth. In closing, we delivered a record third quarter and remain more confident than ever in the long-term trajectory of our business. Over the course of this year, we've made tremendous progress accelerating our revenue backlog growth that now exceeds 55 billion while diversifying our customer base. Executing strategic partnerships and acquisitions to strengthen and broaden our platform, accessing new capital pools that meaningfully reduce our cost of capital, and scaling both our capacity and organization at an unprecedented pace. This progress enables us to seize the opportunities in front of us today and create a strong foundation for years to come. Our addressable market continues to expand. Not only as AI adoption proliferates across industries and use cases, but also through deliberate business decisions we've made to broaden our product portfolio and capture greater wallet share across the industry. Corv is reaching escape velocity, scaling more rapidly and efficiently and solidifying our leadership as the essential cloud for AI. Thank you to our investors and analysts for your support and engagement. We look forward to updating you on our progress in the quarters to come. With that, we move to Q&A.
>> All right, questions. As a reminder, to ask a question, simply press star followed by the number one on your telephone keypad. We respectfully request that you limit questions to one. And our first question comes from the line of Mark Murphy with JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
>> Thank you, Michael. Yeah, every discussion we have across the AI landscape, we we hear that bookings are booming and obviously that uh applies to Kore, but the bottlenecks around power and manpower are are just becoming so severe. Can you speak to that uh situation relating to the third party provider specifically? Is it a shortage of power or manpower? Is it something outside of that uh with GPUs or memory or storage? Then um have you have you spoken to your other third party providers to get a sense of their own trending uh you know relative to schedule and uh whether they think they can you know you know hold on their um or deliver on their commitments into into early next year.
>> Let me uh kind of take that question apart a few few different ways. Right. So first of all, you're correct. It it is very frustrating for um our clients. It's very frustrating for us um because of the kind of systemic challenges that exist within the supply chains that are necessary to deliver uh you know a the global infrastructure uh that's required for artificial intelligence. Um having said that um we have taken a number of steps along the way here to really drive home our ability to manage that uh that that environment which is going to be challenging uh um you know into the future. You know we've really spent a lot of time diversifying um our uh data center providers. uh we have uh created uh a significant portion of the company dedicated to being able to facilitate uh and assist with the operational component of delivering infrastructure. Um we've set up our own uh self-build uh efforts um including Kennallorth and Lancaster, Pennsylvania. So, so you see us kind of really um uh spreading out our uh and ensuring that we're doing everything that is possible to uh limit the damage associated with or the delays associated with delivering this infrastructure which is just overwhelming the supply chains. Now when when you have a diversified uh uh portfolio of paths to infrastructure, the relative impact of each um delay becomes smaller. You just be able to draw on uh uh different data centers as you're getting it delivered. And so we really look at this as um this is a a significant uh um uh block of infrastructure that's come on late. Uh but the the uh the fact that the uh the ultimate end customer that's going to be consuming this infrastructure has um shifted the contract back to allow us to be able to deliver the full contract value in spite of the delays. Uh really speaks to the value that um the the customers get out of our infrastructure. So, you know, you're you're going to be hearing uh uh this theme repeated uh again and again as you talk to not just coreweave, but you talk across the space. Um and it is a real challenge at the powered shell level. It's not a challenge for power, right? There's plenty of power right now. Um and we believe that there will be ample power uh for the next couple of years, but really where the challenge is is the powered shell. And so so Michael um and does does this not relate to core scientific in any way or is this totally removed from that situation that you've gone through?
>> So so I'm not going to speak to any specific one of our uh data center providers. You know we're we're working with all of our data center providers to do everything we can to facilitate the ultimate delivery of the infrastructure that they're going to deliver to us. Um, you know, we've had some some some uh incredible uh success getting infrastructure delivered to us. Uh, as you consider continue to see us scaling um, you know, you saw us hit uh 500, you know, approximately 590 megawws. We're up 120 megawatts since the last uh call. So, so you are seeing a significant amount of success uh, as we continue to scale delivery. Um but it I I don't think it really matters who who the individual uh data center provider is. This is a systemic problem that the industry is going to have to deal with for the foreseeable future. The the important part here is that or the important part from my seat is that the the infrastructure which is uh um undergoing a delay is not going to impact our backlog and our ability to extract the full value from the contracts that we're going to deliver on. Our next question is from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
>> Excellent. Uh thank you guys for taking the question and congratulations on another super impressive quarter in terms of building out that backlog. Uh you're right. We've just we've never seen this in terms of any uh cloud provider being able to build out that quickly. Uh Mike, I wanted to ask you a question that's been asked of us a lot that we're hearing a lot on CNBC and it's it's really about sort of the the risk of overcapacity and but I think it's more narrow than that that people are worried about over capacity from uh or of what's being contracted by AI labs out there. The question I want to ask you though is how we should think about your guys infrastructure and the infrastructure that you build and how fungeible that infrastructure really is. Um when you're building out for a particular customer, do those data centers is that usable for any customer? Is it usable for inference and training? um or do you really build to suit to a certain customer that would lock you in and give you kind of less um uh degrees of freedom, if you will, if one customer is doing better or worse?
>> Yeah, Keith, that's that's an excellent question. It's actually something that we've spent uh um a lot of time thinking about here um as we kind of proceed with our relationships with all our customers. Um and so uh you know, in short, the the infrastructure is fungeable. uh it would be able to be transferred from one client to another. The infrastructure is built to the most demanding specs. So it's able to be used for training. It's able to be used for inference. Um you know we we really have thought a lot about making sure that we maintain as much optionality as much flexibility within our infrastructure build as possible. And I want to highlight for everyone that a lot of that flexibility, a lot of that fungeability really does tie back to the incredible software suite that we provide that allows for such effective use of the infrastructure, right? like when when Sammy Analysis did their uh their annual kind of review of the the the alternatives out there, there's a reason that Coreweave has come back time and time again as singular as the best solution for this type of infrastructure that exists in the world and that includes the hyperscalers, the Neoclouds and everyone else that's trying to deliver this infrastructure. We just do a great job and we believe that there's a lot of value that we are protecting by providing such a robust software suite to be able to uh uh deliver infrastructure.
>> Our next question comes from the line of Cash Rang with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
>> Hi. Uh thank you very much and impressive backlog growth. Two things that I wanted to just touch upon. one is uh uh Mike, I think you you talked about how you're going to be diversifying your your contractors on the data center side. Maybe you could give us a honest to goodness update on how how far are we away from potentially reaching a point where any disruptions that have nothing to do with your business uh should not affect uh your revenue outlook. Uh how far away are we from that point? And secondly, when you look at the uh the the developments, I mean, nobody expected a maybe some did, but at $250 billion contract uh for OpenAI with Microsoft, nobody expected a $300 billion contract OpenAI with Oracle. All of a sudden the uh certainly Corby has got a unique value proposition being able to stand up GPU clusters very quickly, very effectively, uh at the speed of thought almost. But in a landscape where we're talking hundreds of millions of dollars being awarded to the the hyperscaler giants u what gives you the the the uniqueness uh 3 to four years from now when things have sort of settled into a supply equals demand what what when we look back at kby what will be the the shining value proposition that keeps you in the game at that point in time thank you so much and that's it for me
>> yeah thank you let me let me break that uh question into two pieces right the first question you asked is you uh about diversification and when does it stop when does it stop kind of causing uh uh dislocation in in in our numbers as we're delivering them uh quarter to quarter and what I would like to to focus uh you on here is as the individual builds become smaller relative to the size of the entire portfolio of data centers that we are running the impact of being a couple of weeks late will become less and less meaningful in the general accounting of what's going on. Right? So when when you're uh when you're delivering 590 uh megawws of power and you have a step function of two or 30 hundred, it's a it's a material percentage that's going to be delivered over the next quarter, right? As we become larger and larger and start to build out the full 2.9 gawatt of power that we have, having a data center that's 100 megawatts delayed a week or two is not going to have a material impact. And as Nitton said, we expect the overwhelming majority of that 2.9 gawatts of power to be brought into service over the next 12 to 24 months. And so that'll give you a really good idea of how the curve begins to become more smooth as we get larger and the relative impact of each data center becomes smaller. Um and so that's that's the uh that's the first part on the scaling side. You know uh the second part is um you know the the the question you're asking has been asked of us since we started this business. you know, why is Coreweave going to be able to uh deliver uh GPUs uh faster? Why are we going to be able to deliver the GPUs that Nvidia uses to uh run its ML PF? Uh why are we going to be able to create software that is going to uh define the space? And with each quarter you see us extending the lead with which we have because of the customization of our uh cloud to the use case that is required. And once again you saw us in the in the uh semi analysis like we're singular in this. We're out there building our product offering. we're building or buying additional capacity to further decommoditize the compute that we're delivering. And so, you know, a a company that's built singularly to deliver this type of compute will be effective on a go forward basis.
>> Our next question is from the line of AIT Darian. Please go ahead. Are you on mute?
>> My line is open.
>> I'm streaming, guys.
>> Operator, let's go to the next question and we'll come back to a
>> Yeah, I'm streaming. The [__]
>> Come on. Operator, can we go to the next question and we'll come back to Ahmed?
>> Our next question is from Tyler Re with City. Please go ahead.
>> Hey, hopefully you can hear me. Okay. Um, thanks for taking the question. Um, so double clicking on some of the delays that you called out in the quarter. Um, can you just help us understand the implications on on 2026? I know Nitton you you provided some highle uh commentary on on capex but I mean just given the visibility you have uh particularly on the 24-month um component of of RPO, how should we be thinking about sort of the the revenue implications uh of of the shift? Is this is this a delay that you think kind of gets fully resolved in into Q1? And um should we see sort of a step up in growth rate uh next year relative to to this year? just any color on that uh would be helpful.
>> Yeah. So, so I'll start and then I'll hand it over to to Nitton. Um I I think it's important to understand that the uh ramp that we are seeing uh is at a u um is associated with the infrastructure from a single provider. Um and we are parallel pathing with other providers for other contracts. And so you're going to see a short-term impact associated with this uh uh delivery. And then what you're going to see is the the uh uh our ability to accelerate through the year uh back to schedule. So the overwhelming majority of the delay that you're seeing should be taken care of within Q1 of next year.
>> Yeah, Tyler, that is correct. The vast majority of the capex push out that we experience in Q4 will be done in Q1. And as you can imagine, we're going to ramp the capacity through the course of Q1. For this, as Mike earlier mentioned, the impact on the total revenue associated with the customer is not impacted here because we've been able to adjust the delivery dates associated with the customer so that the customer keeps the full capacity as well as the contract value associated with it. We will share more details around the 2026 build you know and our revenue plan associated in the next earnings but as we highlighted in this quarter given the strong customer demand that you see given that is demonstrated in our revenue backlog growth as well as the continued customer demand we see we expect 2026 capex to be well more than double of that of 2025. Our next question is from the line of Michael Churn with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
>> Hey, thanks very much. I appreciate you taking the question. Um, I want to just try to tie some of the commentary together. um because the bookings growth clearly stands out and there are a lot of questions just around the sequencing and and so it it it sounds like what you're saying is the supply chain impacts you're seeing are more uh single customer specific. What I'm what I'm trying to get a better sense of is does this at all impact the cadence at which you're able to sign on new customers or is this more tied to post ramp signing and and one more specific customer environment? And just as a small followup, does the Nvidia deal specifically show up in the backlog metric? It might be useful to hear you expand on what that deal opens up given it's a bit of a different structure there as well. Thanks very much.
>> Uh, sure. So, um, the uh the the um there is no impact on our ability to uh bring on more clients. I think it's important to understand that we're parallelizing the build of infrastructure. There is a problem at one data center that's impacting us, but there are 30 two data centers in our portfolio. All of them are progressing to one extent or another. And so that is each one of those is independent. And as Nittton spoke earlier, we have uh 2.9 gawatt worth of contracted power that will come on in the next 12 to 24 months. And we are going to be looking to fill that with clients uh that are going to be using that which will have a substantial impact on our uh revenue on a go forward basis. this one data center will catch up and then we will move forward from there. Want to talk about the Nvidia deal?
>> Yeah, Michael. On the from the Nvidia deal perspective, we're really excited about this deal. This contract allows for the capacity contracted and reserved for Nvidia to be interrupted and resold to different customers. So the nature of this contract allows us to offer our services profitably to a wide range of smaller customers such as high growth AI labs that prefer shorter and lower upfront commitments while eliminating any utilization risks for capacity from our side. So we're really excited about this. Given the flexibility in the contract to interrupt and to resell capacity, accounting rules require us that we exclude the amount we expect to be resold to other customers from RPO. To be clear, if not resold, this capacity will remain committed to Nvidia and will be recognized as revenue. So you see this Nvidia contract in our revenue backlog, but not in our RPO to a large extent. So, so, uh, just to just to follow up with that for a moment there, we, you know, as N said, we're we're extremely excited about this because what this contract is going to allow us to do is to provide infrastructure to emerging companies, startups, companies that are struggling to get access to the computing infrastructure that they require to be able to build their business. And so the interruptability here is a incredibly powerful tool for the resiliency and uh um uh opportunities for new companies to become part of Core Weave's broader uh offering. And we're really excited about this. We think it's a great structure. It is a deal with Nvidia. They fully underwrite uh um the uh the economics um uh because we will sell the compute to them. And I I want to be clear that this really does represent an incredibly disciplined way of financing the compute in order to be able to reach parts of the market that we have been unable to reach or anyone for that matter has been unable to reach up to this point.
>> Our next question comes from the line of Brent Bill with Jeff. Please go ahead. N I just wanted to be clear uh you've cut capex by 40% for the year and just to be clear this is from one customer correct this is you're not assuming other uh other delays across the board correct
>> that is correct so this is associated with a single provider data center provider partner and the delays associated with that and as we talked in our prepared remarks most of it a vast majority of it is going to be recognized in Q1 and in Q4 you're going to see a major impact on buildup of construction in progress associated with the buildup related to it.
>> Okay. Uh terrific.
>> And our next question comes from the line of Ramo Lindsha with Barclays. Please go ahead.
>> Perfect. Thank you. um as we think about capex next year um Nitton and uh Michael can you speak as well uh about the sources of funding a little bit because what we've seen for a lot of the other players is that leasing is coming up a lot more um you talked about capex which is kind of what you need to do how do you think about that path for you going forward between the different ways of kind of funding the business which might give you even more flexibility thank you
>> uh thank you So look, we we've we've driven innovation on the technology side um and we've driven innovation on the uh financing side, right? The the way that I look at this is that we will look at the full suite of potential ways of financing and expanding our footprint and then we will choose whatever is the most cost-effective way of uh increasing our scale and serving our clients. And so if leasing is the path uh that's the path we'll go. But you know we've seen a lot of different uh structures. We've created a lot of different structures that have given us access to uh capital over the past three years and you know we believe that we're going to explore the full suite of those as we look forward. We don't sign customers without knowing where the financing is going to come from. You know, we go deal by deal and we make sure that we have the physical data center uh spoken for, we have the power spoken for, we have the GPU spoken for and we have the financing spoken for in order to ensure that we are able to successfully deliver compute to them.
>> Our next question comes from the line of AIT Dariani with Evercore. Please go ahead.
>> Yep. Hopefully this works better.
>> We got you.
>> All right. Perfect. Uh Mike, I was hoping if you could just talk about as you shift from, you know, third party data center providers to perhaps doing more of your own self build. Um how does that impact your capex and time to market for power as you go forward? Um we'd love to just understand how do you think that optimal mix looks like and what the capex requirements could be as you perhaps go more towards self build versus thirdarty data center providers. Thank you.
>> Yeah. So, so I want to be clear, we're we're not saying that we're going to go self-build and not use third party data center providers. What we are saying is that uh self-build is a component of the way that you go about d-risking uh delivery across the broader portfolio. And so we're going to go ahead and we're going to continue to work with our partners uh who provide data center capacity that uh uh allow us to colllocate at their facilities that build facilities for us. All of that is going to continue to be true. We we need uh that uh capacity uh in order to be able to continue to move and operate at the speed and scale that we are. Um, we just look at self-build as an additional piece of the puzzle. It puts us closer to the physical infrastructure. It embeds us deeper into the supply chain uh around the world so that we have firsthand information. We just think that you need to be on both sides of this fence in order to be uh as effective as you can be derisking uh what is a complicated uh supply chain environment. Our next question comes from the line of Brad Zelnik with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
>> Great. Thank you so much for taking the question, Mike. With 2.9 gawatts in committed power and and over a gigawatt yet to be contracted out to customers. Meanwhile, we we continue to see a number of other large deals get announced uh industrywide. How do how do you think about and how might you frame for us the pacing on contracting out the remaining capacity given the demand is insatiable out there?
>> Yeah, so look um thanks thanks for the question here. Um the the uh the fact that there are other deals getting contract contracted out there is incredible validation for the supply demand environment that we have been describing for years now. Right. um the there there is no entity that has the capacity to be able to deliver infrastructure globally in order to to meet the demand that's being driven by the largest technology companies in the world by the largest AI labs in the world by government by enterprise all of these things are coming to bear and so you're you're the the fact that there are other deals going to other players is part and parcel for the fact that we like the hyperscalers, like the AI labs, like the data centers are being overwhelmed by demand. It is just reinforcing and validating the the the the theme that we've been talking about. Um we uh we think that you know at the end of the day the product that we deliver right which is a full stack everything uh from the hardware all the way through the software is the most valuable representation of this infrastructure that can be delivered to the market. And we continue to think that that will drive uh significant amount of uh um demand for our infrastructure. As far as the remaining capacity goes, we're being very thoughtful about continuing to drive diversification across our cloud. We're continuing to think about uh different uh applications that are going to be uh meaningful contributors to the way the world will work in the future. And we are allocating that infrastructure to those parties as as quickly as we can in order to ensure that they are successfully able to launch their products, their enterprises.
>> And Brad, couple of things to kind of keep in mind here as we kind of talked about in our prepared remarks today. you know approximately no customer represents greater than approximately 35% of our revenue backlog which is meaningfully down from you know where we began the year at 85%. And 60% of our revenue backlog is with investment grade customers. So vectors that we are very thoughtful around as we take care of the capacity that we have available to be sold.
>> Okay guys I think that's pretty much it. I think they have like one or two questions left. That's it. We are done. Um I don't know that much about Cororeweave. I just know the call was like it just felt like they were defensive the whole time. And not in like a Sam Alman type of way. It wasn't like they were getting confronted with any hard questions. It was it was just like it didn't feel like they were super optimistic about the future of their business in relationship to data centers. Now the numbers are phenomenal. So, you know, this might be just like a thing I'm nitpicking with how I heard the call go, but the numbers were great. The issue with I think the why the street has it down is because the CFO said many times, you guys felt that too, right? A lot of you guys are saying defensive. Yeah, the CFO said many times we are going to further increase our debt load uh to finance our de demand-based capex. Now, the reason he's using that word demand-based capex uh is very intentional, right? He's trying to say, "Hey, the reason we're taking on more debt is because we have so much demand." Which is fine. It's just at the end of the day, that might not be something that the street cares that much about um or that the street may want to see. Now, granted, they're taking on more debt, but uh they're 22 cents away from profitability. So, the debt might not be the uh the outstanding cause for why they don't continue to eventually get profitable. Cory right here down 5.7. The guide they gave, I don't think it was a bad guy a guide. It was relatively decent. I don't know the exact numbers the street wanted, but uh from my understanding, it looks like they're beating on revenue. They might be missing a little bit on on um not EPS, but um uh non-GAAP operating income, but that doesn't look like a horrible guide. Rocket Lab still up 7% after hours. So, it looks like that call is going okay. Not really giving up that candle. Big Bear up 12%. Regetti is flat even after a pretty big miss. So, Regetti not having that much pain. And then Terwolf's up 2% even after a very large miss. Beyond Meat is down 5% after a bad EPS miss on revenue. Oxy's flat. Plug Power now goes red after a good beat. Corre is the one that's getting hit the most after hours down 6.1%. So I guess the big thing tomorrow is Nebus. Yes, I'll be covering Nebius. I'm not going to be streaming it because it's during the market open. I'm sure there'll be another channel that's streaming it. We will go through the numbers. And uh you know the thing about Nebius again I did my deep dive on them that I was saying this in the chat. I'm just a little concerned about these Neoclouds not getting more deals. Nebius has been getting a lot of upgrades though. Like a lot of upgrades. And I've been reading some of these reports. I think they got a $200 upgrade this morning. I forgot by who, but it was one of these firms. And and every time I read the upgrade report, I look at my deep dive. I'm like this is very similar to what I said in my deep dive in terms of the holistic perspective these analysts are taking on Nebus like the average price target right now on Nebus is 155 on the street you know 40% upside from where we have currently right now and there's only you know five analysts but still you are seeing yeah Northland securities they were the ones that were 206 and then DA Davidson gave them to 150 But then again, I don't know. I don't know if I know the business that well to say that before earnings, it's going to be okay. So, I think we got to see. I also think again there's some hiccups in this data center debt financing issue. And the one thing the market doesn't want to hear about is debt for data centers. And Cororeweave is explicitly saying we're we're happy to take on more debt because we have a ton of demand, which is fine. But I think the market doesn't love that at the moment, which could change tomorrow. I mean these stocks are super volatile. Nebas right here up a little bit after hours 1.4%. As it continues to go green. So Nebius, Cororeweave, Irene, I mean Iren had a pretty good earnings. Cororeweave I think the numbers were good even if the call wasn't the best. I right now after hours that's up 1.6. Clean Spark getting decimated after diluting by a billion back down to 14 bucks. Maybe the street doesn't care too much about it in a couple weeks but as of now street's not the happiest. Open Door up 3% after hours after the CEO tweeted he's going to be buying more stock. Rocket Labs up 7%. And he got Coreweave down 5.6. Yes, we should have Technical Tuesday tomorrow. I will confirm with Jason, but we should be live tomorrow for that and after we cover the earnings. There's only a couple earnings tomorrow. Well, no, it's only Oakllo. So, we can get right into TTS as uh that one's flat down about 66. They did put up 14 million in revenue. they beat or they missed on the top and the bottom, but they did say they're securing a billion dollars of contracted revenue over the next year. There you go. That is what we got. Those are the earnings for today. This was the most um I guess you could say intensive day on earnings. Um Thursday you have New Bank, AAT, Redcap. Wednesday you have Cisco DLO. Tomorrow you have Oaklo. So today was the big one. We got through it. And then yes, AMD is going to be having the investor day tomorrow. I'm not going to be streaming that. I'm sure Jose will. I think that's probably going to be in the middle of the day. But hopefully AMD says some good stuff. And they kind of have to say some stuff because quite frankly on the earnings call they kept saying, "We'll tell you guys that our investor day." Well, tomorrow's an important day then to then answer all those main questions. So, that'll be important. Um, I think that's all we got for today. We will have a daily recap. I know it's been gone for the past week. Usually, when we have these tech earnings, it's almost impossible to do a recap because we're, you know, ending the day at around 800 PM with all these calls, but we'll be back today, the daily recap. Um, I'm live again at 9:30 tonight with Tanner and Roy. We're going to be recapping Robin Hood earnings Q3. Pretty good quarter. So, we're going to talk about those earnings. probably get into a couple other topics. Um, and then I'll be back tomorrow for the market open and that's what we got. All right, folks. Thank you everybody for being here. Yes, Nebius tomorrow in the morning. I'll be live. We'll see what we got with Nebius. We'll keep going from there. Um, and I think that's pretty much it. Again, regardless of some of these earnings moves after hours, we did have a really good day and S&P 500 up one and a half%. Very nice to see 68144 if we can continue that momentum. Again, alltime highs are 689. We are not that far away. So, if we could get there towards the end of the month, it would be very exciting. And obviously, Nvidia is the next big catalyst that we got to watch out for over the uh over the coming weeks. All right, that's it. Thank you everybody. Appreciate you all. See you guys in the daily recap and then later today at 9:30 for Tech Bros. Bye everybody. See you later. Have a good one.