Hello my friends. Today is June 6 and this is Markets Weekly. All right, so last week we were telling everyone about how boring the markets had become. I was warning you that the correction will come like a thief in the night. And on Friday, voila, very exciting day. We had a V event. So today, first let's talk about what's happening in the markets as well as a bit on the labor data front. And secondly, we have to talk about project 2025 because reporting suggests that Kevin is stepping up and he hired the author of the Fed chapter of Project 2025 as one of his advisers. So I think that's going to shed light on what a Kevin Fed would mean. All right, starting with the markets. So if you look back at the markets the past few weeks, it's basically gone straight up, right? Basically, like we've been talking about, it's all leverage and momentum, right? None of this bizarre earnings whatever markets are just leverage and momentum. In the past, people would just lever up by buying stock on margin and that could you know push up the markets. But today leverage is exposed through call options. And when you're looking at single stop call options, you can see very clearly whether it be through implied VA, whether it be through call or something like that, uh that the market a lot of people were just loaded up on calls, especially in the chip stocks like Micron and that was basically pushing everything up. But when you are highly levered, of course, the market becomes fragile because once you have a small decline in prices, you know, maybe someone decides to, you know, I've made enough money, I'm going to delever. I'm going to takes take some profits and that leads the price to drop even more. And so you can easily have a cascading effect where you have uh basically a huge deleveraging event where prices kind of all drop suddenly, right? It's herdlike behavior stuff that we see all the time. So that was the state of the market. It was in a fragile situation. All it needed was a catalyst. And we got a couple catalysts last week that seemed to be able to tip the market into more of a deleveraging cycle. So first off, of course, was the 5% drop in the Cosby index. The Cosby index is the Korean stock market. And if you look at the Korean stock market, it's basically gone vertical, right? It's basically doubled uh this year. So the Korean stock market has largely been driven by two memory chip stocks. Samsung and Highex, these guys have been benefiting from the huge AI boom. As the hyperscalers build out their data centers, they're needing to buy a lot of RAM. RAM is largely produced in just a few companies. And these Korean companies have are one of the big producers in RAM. And as demand exceeded supply, they have been able to raise prices. So the flip side of huge inflation in RAM is huge profits by these two Korean companies. And that huge surge in profits has been basically making their stocks go parabolic driving up a hu whole Cosby index go parabolic as well. Now one thing about Koreans is that they they really like to invest in the stock market. They have a very high risk appetite. So you see many reports of people in Korea basically taking out huge loans to go and just you know lever up and chase the momentum. Um this is something that you actually see uh in the US as well where you have a lot of Korean investors who actually come and invest in the US stock market chasing momentum as well. So um actually there's public data from the Korean security depository where you can actually see some of the largest overseas stock holdings from Korean investors. I looked at this a few months ago. It was basically all basically garbage basically penny stocks and huge momentum stocks stuff like that. So it's very much in the investor culture there. So you had kind of a crack in that uh in the call speed down 5% and that obviously is going to reverberate into the memory stocks the AI trade in the US uh both through just outright sentiment but but also as maybe some investors in Korea have to deliver um their US position. So that's one crack that one little uh crack in the momentum. The other m momentum crack came with the labor data. So for context, we had our first labor data earlier in the week, the jolts data. Jolts shows the amount of job openings in the US and we showed a huge surge in job openings in the US. So that suggests that the labor market is improving because demand for labor is increasing as there's more job postings. Now the real big job Oh, we also had ADP data that suggested the job the jobs situation is improving. But of course, the gold standard is the non-farmms payrolls print. And on Friday, it was a blowout print full stop. We created almost 200,000 jobs. So that was much higher uh than the market had anticipated. And if you zoom out and you look at the trend, you can see that it looks like the moving average of jobs created is really turning a corner. Whereas the US last year, it seems like we're not creating jobs. It seems like we're losing jobs. Right now, it seems like the moving average is solidly ticking upwards. And so it does seem like more jobs are being created. And not just jobs in say um you know, healthcare, but it seems like we have jobs in uh local government and and stuff like that. So it it seems like the job market is improving. Uh when you look at other details in the jobs report, you can see that um you know we had revisions from last month revised higher. So that's good. An interesting thing is that the unemployment rate remains at 4.3%. So at the end of the day um it's kind of a puzzle because everyone was talking about the unemployment rate staying at 4.3% when we were losing jobs. The theory at the time was that the break even job rate is very low. But now that we have a jump in jobs created, it's still 4.3%. So that's kind of a mystery. One possibility is that it's just, you know, lagging. And so as the US economy continues to create more jobs, maybe the unemployment rate will go lower. However, though, wages still wage growth really hasn't changed as well. So uh that that does not that argues for a labor market that's not quite improving, right? So if you have an improving labor market, you would expect the unemployment rate to go lower and as labor becomes scarce, you'd expect wages to go up as well. We're not seeing that now. So it's still very much a wait and see event, but at the moment it does seem like the US labor market uh is stabilizing and improving. Now that really had a big reaction in the rates market. you immediately have uh basically the entire rates complex shift up particularly in the front end as the market began to price in Fed hikes. So if you think the labor market is okay that means the Fed doesn't have to cut uh to save the labor market. There's nothing to save. And yet if you look at inflation know it looks like we're going to head to inflation that's going to be above 4% in the coming months depending on what happens with the rate of fam moves. So obviously the Fed has an inflation problem. labor market is okay. So the Fed will probably have to hike. So the market fully prices in one hike this year and you know a good chance of another hike next year as well. So with the market pricing that in of course the entire curve had to shift upwards and if you have the curve shifting upwards that's another knock on risk assets right so risk assets equities don't like higher interest rates would prefer interest rates to stay low. So that both that hiccup from Korea, both the strong labor print and the fragile positioning of the market uh seems to have set off a big deleveraging event. So spot gamma has a really good chart about this showing you how basically the day before everyone was super long calls and on Friday they basically had to puke that out. So this was most the the decline in markets was most obvious in the NASDAQ which was of course the most stretched markets. You can see very discrete decline in the NASDAQ 100. Now that being said, if you look at just basic momentum analysis, basic moving averages and things like that, you can see the market continues to be very much in an upwards trend. So it's really hard to look at this and interpret anything bearish. it seems like we're just kind of having a correction as as we should since we've gone straight up. So, um whereas I believe that we are in a bubble and that we will eventually have a bare market that grinds lower slowly and that many people will lose a lot of money. Uh I actually my expectation is that next week all the um dip buyers will come in, the V sellers will come in and and I think we'd probably go back up. Now one caveat to that is that um it may not fully be delivered. So one thing that I noticed that after market closed so we is that we had another wave of selling the futures. That's classic sign of margin call. So there were a lot of people who were totally caught off guard and who had to be liquidated. So 5% decline in the NASDAQ futures is significant and it's very highly unlikely that if you are a you know livered momo chaser that you would have survived that. Now there's a concern and I share this is that this happened when Korea and other Asian markets were closed. So when those markets reopen on Monday morning, so Sunday evening US time, uh they may have some liquidations to do as well. If you are an investor over there with levered positions in the US, you would have woken up and you would have gotten margin called, you would have gotten liquidated and you may have to sell some stocks that you hold uh in your own market to kind of cover that. So you could have maybe another 5 to 10% down day in the Cosby and that could potentially kick off more delivering in the US indexes. So it's possible that the delivering cycle is is not over. But again, zooming out, it it's it seems like um the trend is still solidly upwards. Now the damage we saw in the equity market did reverberate in many other markets as well. We saw huge declines in gold and silver and also Bitcoin as well. So what people think of as the, you know, hard money or whatnot trades, those really got wrecked bigly. And gold in particular lost the 200 day moving average which is what a moving average that it's kept for for a long time and that many people perceive to be kind of an important trigger as to whether or not we are still in an upwards trend. So once you lose that you trigger a lot of more selling because people who are trend followers they see that and they have to adjust now. So it's a it's a violent move that probably is uh not over yet. So yeah, I think this is a pretty exciting day but not at all unexpected. Now one of the things that I thought was interesting is that just as we know that we have a big increase in equity supply coming forward with the SpaceX IPO that's now priced I believe it's like 1.7 trillion market cap again that's not all coming online at one time. They're only selling 75 billion but it that is 75 billion of supply. Uh what will happen is that over the coming months people who are employees of SpaceX who already have SpaceX stock uh they will there they will be able to sell the stock there's a period where they are not able to sell it but after you IPO uh there's the period there's an unlock period in the coming months where they are able to sell it and I think that's going to depend on their contract and stuff like that. uh but they're they're going to be able to monetize SpaceX stock that they've had for for many years. And so that's where you can have gradual selling. Now on top of that, we also had last week Google filing suddenly out of the blue that they were going to raise capital in the markets by selling equity. Some of it went to Berkshire Hathaway through a private placement and they got a discount on that. Maybe if you buy I think 10 billion maybe you get a bulk discount. uh but uh half of that is going to be through an at the market offering. So starting I think next month they'll be selling stock outright. So you have this basic mechanism where your stock is expensive or you think it's expensive. And so the balancing mechanism is that you'll sell more right? If you are an investor, maybe you try to short sell. But if you are the company itself, well, you just sell swap to, you know, willing investors at market prices and they give you cash and you give them stock and you get to go and build more AI stuff. Now, there was a podcast with Golden CEO David Solomon on OddLots last week suggesting that he thinks that other companies will also do that. And on Friday, we also had news that Facebook is also going to be maybe having an equity offering. So a natural counterbalance to very hot elevated frothy markets is the companies coming and selling stock. We saw this in GameStop as well when you know a bunch of DGENs were driving games stock to the moon. GameStop began to sell stock and raise cash. Very smart move by their CEO CFO and it looks like that's happening as well. So you have this equity supply that that's going to weigh on markets in the coming months, right? It's not going to happen immediately. It's going to be something gradually. Also note that um normally if you're a big tech company, you give shares to your employees as part of the compensation. Now that should be diluting your shares, but what also happens is that you have buybacks to offset that dilution. So as companies spend more money on AI, they're not really doing as many buybacks as they used to. And so that dilutive effect is going to be stronger. So again, you have more equity supply going forward in the coming months and that's going to continue to weigh on markets in the let's say in the coming months uh not immediately. So something to keep in mind. All right. So um exciting day on Friday. think Monday will probably be exciting, but uh again the buy the dip, the risk mentality, the V sellers, these guys, they're they're powerful. And of course, we're heading into June OPEX and and usually as we head into this window, um you have some degree of V compression as well. All right, so the second thing that we have to talk about is project 2025. When I talk about project 2025, you know, that was kind of the game plan for the Trump election campaign for Trump version two. And at the time he was like, I have no idea what this project 2025 is. I don't know. But as it turns out, we've seen that over the past year, a lot of the authors of the project 25 2025 um I guess think piece actually were hired into pretty senior administration jobs. And it looks like one more author is being hired this time into the Fed. You have Nick at the Wall Street Journal with a scoop that Kevin is staffing up and he's hiring advisers. and one of them is uh Paul who wrote the project 2025 chapter of the Federal Reserve. So that's I think that's helpful in giving us an idea as to his vision of what the Fed will be. So the chapter isn't very long. It was very concise and I would split it into uh two portions. One portion is that stuff that's more philosophical, more about stuff that Congress would need to do. So it's more about how his approach to what the Fed is and should be and not actually actionable and stuff and the other part is stuff that the Fed actually can do itself and that is more actionable and more directly related to what could impact markets. So, broadly speaking, just looking at his philosophy is that he thinks the Fed is not good and he thinks it's not good and he would like the Fed to be smaller and a smaller Fed he feels like would be better and that kind of goes to more of his philosophy and more of his role of what the Fed would be in um in the economy. So some some of his suggestions that could only be implemented by Congress. Uh some of them are kind of silly as like go back to a commodity standard like the gold standard that guys that's never going to happen. I go back to free banking where banks issue their their own their own money but they they create money now but kind of like JP Morgan issuing JP Morgan deposits so they can kind of compete with other banks uh so that um this market mechanism will make sure that private banks um are more are better managed that's not going to happen either and more of a interesting and something that I think has a little bit more political support and that is the removal of the dual mandate to just the single inflation mandate. So once upon a time the Fed was basically just a lender of last resort in the 1970s as we had significant macroeconomic instability, high inflation, high unemployment and also at that time we also went off the gold standard. The Fed was given more of a macroeconomic mandate, full employment, price stability and moderate long-term interest rates. So he doesn't like all that stuff. he would like the Fed to just have one mandate and maybe have Congress work on the other stuff, right? Like uh employment and things like that. And this is something that I think makes total sense. So when you have the Fed with two mandates, you're basically giving the Fed a blank check because you can basically do anything if you have two mandates. You can always hike interest rates and point to inflation, whether real or projected or imagined. And you can always cut interest rates pointing at unemployment being too high and just coming up with some, you know, hocus pocus measure of what you think the uh natural rate of unemployment is. So you give a lot of discretion to a central bank when you have two mandates. And at the end of the day, it the Fed really can't really accomplish any of its mandates anyway, right? Inflation, unemployment, these are very complicated macroeconomic problems that depend on things like trade policy, like demographics, tax policy, fiscal spending, and all that. So honestly, the Fed is is even on the price stability sense, it's it's never going to be able to accomplish it itself because interest rates are only one factor among many that determine economic activity. So this is something that I think from my understanding on Congress, there's also some support with just having the Fed become a single mandate central bank and that would make their role more tailored, less power, and maybe they might be able to be more focused on inflation. inflation would be lower, right? If we had a single mandate central bank, I think in we would probably have higher rates right now since inflation is um you know 4%. But that's a question for Congress and it's not really about uh what Kevin or his staff can do. But what Kevin and his staff can do though are four other recommendations that were in this chapter. So the first I'll just list them and we'll talk about them. First of course is smaller balance sheet which we all know is kind of uh Kevin's thing. The second is have a treasury only balance sheet which actually I think is a consensus position on the FOMC. So this will happen. Um third is um having a Fed that so less giving so having discount window policy that's more strict. So basically they don't want to be seen as kind of subsidizing the bad behavior of banks. They want activity access to the discount window to be a lot more limited. And lastly and this is more interesting is that they want the end of interest on excess reserves. So no IR for the banking system. So these are things that are actually fully within the power of the Fed board and don't need any agreement with Congress. So these are things that they could accomplish if they have um I guess if they have enough political support. And we know that uh the president is still trying to take control of the Fed board. There's ongoing lawsuits against Lisa Cook. An interesting development last week is that director PY of FHFA, the person who somehow obtained the mortgage documents of Lisa Cook and created this whole lawsuit, he's uh promoted to director of national intelligence where I imagine he will have access to a lot more documents. So, I guess they're going to be looking at their third grade report cards and all that for everyone on the Fed to make sure that nothing nothing ever ever sketchy has ever happened. though I'm guessing that we're going to see more efforts to control the Fed from um director py in any case um starting with having a smaller balance sheet that's something that the Fed can do but I at the moment I don't believe they have enough support to do it I think uh forever for example uh Waller is is not supportive of this we have Governor Bowman seems like she's okay with it but at the moment it's not something that they they have enough support to do and even if they did um I think even Kmart from Secretary Basson suggests that this is something that they'll do slowly so it's not something that's going to happen immediately. Having a treasury only balance sheet though is something that they can do pretty steadily. Now their rationale for this is that having the Fed active in the mortgage markets distorts the markets and also contributed this huge huge surge in home prices in 2021 which is totally true. So they don't want the Fed to be in there blowing bubbles in the housing market. And I think that's consensus position. The question on the Fed right now is how to get to a Treasury only portfolio. Are you going to sell mortgages or are you just going to have your reinvestment policy gradually reinvest maturing mortgages into treasuries? That's going to be a 30-year process. So that's something that they'll continue to debate in the coming meetings. Um having a more strict lender of last resort function. So less access to discount window. That's kind of stupid because honestly in the modern banking system basically no one uses a discount window anyway. I think that was pretty frequent u or at least much more active in the early days of the Fed but it's basically a non-issue today. So I don't even understand why we talk about it. Um the last issue the end of IR that's very interesting. Now I so some people look at this as just basically a huge giveaway to banks right if you have three trillion in reserves and you have IR and I'll say say at 4% you're giving like over hundred billion dollars to banks just in interest income every year right that's basically free money to the banking sector it's a subsidy and it was intended to be a subsidy after the great financial crisis banks were very weak under capitalized in poor condition so the Fed you know wanted to support them a little bit and also as the Fed has a large balance sheet part of their rate control mechanism is to give uh is through IR. Now if you wanted to end IR today it is totally doable. You'd have to change how you implement a monetary policy. Maybe you could have a tiering mechanism like what they do in other or other jurisdictions. Maybe you pay zero interest on the bulk of reserves but pay a little bit of interest on some reserves and that could maintain your ability to control overnight interest rates. So that is definitely something that the Fed can do. Um I don't think so this couldn't come in tandem with a smaller Fed balance sheet. It doesn't have to. Uh with a clever design, they could definitely achieve this. I don't actually think there's going to be much um push back from other people on the on the board of governors to this idea. I'm just not sure if they have people that honestly have the capability of implementing it. But but this is probably among everything else one of the more immediate potential deliverables that they could do. Uh let's see if he actually talks about it in his coming meeting. Remember the first uh meeting where Kevin will chair is coming in a couple weeks. Uh there is some suggestion that Kevin might want to change the communication structure of the Fed such that maybe we won't have a DOP plot anymore or maybe have fewer Fed conferences. So we'll find out more in a couple weeks. All right, so that's all I prepared for today. Thanks so much for tuning in. Talk to you guys next week.