I'm David Epstein. I'm the author 
of the number one New York Times  
bestseller Range: Why Generalist Triumph in 
a Specialized World. And now the new book,  
Inside the Box: How Constraints Make Us Better.
Chapter 1, General Magic versus 
Pixar. Why constraints are necessary.
General Magic was a company that was 
conceived in the late 80s and founded  
by a trio of former Apple employees. Two of 
them had been designers of the original Mac  
and the other had this job inside of Apple. His 
name was Marc Porat and his job inside of Apple  
was looking at the future of technology and 
he was an absolute visionary internally. Their  
innovations were legion. I mean they made an early 
form of USB. They made the precursors to emojis,  
virtual keyboards. They created a virtual meeting 
space where devices could communicate to carry out  
tasks and do commerce. And what did they call that 
place in 1990? The cloud. Like they were way ahead  
of all these things. In fact, in one case, they 
gave a demonstration of some of their disruptive  
technology. It happened to be a software modem 
in this case to one of their Japanese partners.  
And one of the Japanese engineers started 
banging his head on the table. And so they asked,  
you know, what's wrong? And another one of the 
Japanese engineers said, "You have just obsoleted  
Katoan's division." So this group of people really 
saw the future of communications technology.  
And then they formed this massive alliance 
that was a 17 company partnership that covered  
so much of the communications world that their 
meetings had to start with an antitrust lawyer  
listing all the topics that they were not allowed 
to discuss. And Marc Porat the CEO started the  
process to go public raised more and more money 
expanded the team expanded the office. And he said  
his goal in doing that was to create heaven for 
engineers where they were free to play and create  
with the only limits being their imagination. 
What more could anyone ask for? He said and as  
it turned out a little less freedom was the thing 
they really needed because they could do anything.  
They did do anything. The project kept growing 
and growing and every time someone had an idea  
for something that would be cool, they made it. 
They started missing deadlines because they kept  
adding everything and everything got bigger and 
bigger. They didn't have a clear idea of who their  
customer was. So they defined their customer 
as Joe Six-Pack. And when the product finally  
did come out, the first product that ran their 
operating system was called the Sony Magic Link.  
It was bigger than a phone. It didn't contain a 
phone. It was overloaded with so much other stuff.  
It had so many features that the battery life was 
terrible. The user experience was choppy. It had a  
200page user manual. And it sold about 3,000 units 
in 6 months, mostly to people who they knew. And  
pretty soon the company uh was was disintegrating. 
So they just did not keep a boundary on anything  
they were doing. Something that I think 
was emblematic of the problem, there was  
an engineer named Steve Pearlman and his job at 
General Magic was to create a calendar function.  
So he writes a calendar function. It goes from 
1904 to 2096. And he checks it in and he thinks  
he's done. And then one of the company's 
leaders comes to him and says, "Hey, Steve,  
you know, somebody might make apps that go 
farther into the future or or historical apps.  
You have to make this this calendar bigger." 
And so he redo the calendar and he starts it  
from year one. So now it goes from year one 
into the future. He thinks he's done again.  
And then a member of another team comes to him 
and says, "Look, why are you tying this into an  
arbitrary religious context? You know, starting 
at year 1 or year zero. you should start at the  
beginning of astronomical time. So then he goes 
back again, creates a calendar function that  
starts at the beginning of the universe. If he 
had just stuck between 1904 and 2096, it would  
have been about four lines of code and instead 
it ended up being this long project because it  
expanded like everything did at General Magic and 
it was an enormous waste of time and resources.  
They just could not put any constraints on what 
they were doing. When I interviewed a lot of the  
people who worked there, they kept telling me the 
biggest challenge was figuring out what not to do.  
What to do and what not to do because they didn't 
have a bounding box around what they were doing.  
If General Magic was built for unbridled 
freedom, where people could work on  
literally anything that their minds could 
conceive, Pixar was the absolute opposite.  
One of the founders, Ed Catmull, was going into 
grad school about the same time as Marc Porat,  
the CEO of General Magic. And he had a similarly 
audacious vision. Ed grew up wanting to be a  
Disney animator, but he wasn't that great of a 
drawer, which is a problem for that. And so he  
instead set the goal of making the world's first 
fully computer animated feature film. And this was  
incredibly audacious. When he was starting grad 
school in the 70s, like the cutting edge was like  
shapes rotating on a black screen. And yet 20 
years later with the release of Toy Story, he did  
indeed create the world's first fully computer 
animated feature film. And then he made it his  
mission for the rest of his career to create 
an organization that could do that repeatedly.  
And you think of Pixar as this just unbridled 
imagination, right? Because that's how the  
products look. But the way he did that was with 
the religious implementation of constraints that  
were like bumpers in a bowling alley channeling 
creative ideas into achievement. As Ed says,  
he thinks ideas abound in organizations. It's a 
process for containing them and channeling them  
that is more rare. And so as examples of some of 
the rules that he and his colleagues implemented,  
they had one called the three pitches 
rule, for example, where a director  
had to bring three different story ideas. They 
could not just bring one because when we have  
one idea, we get anchored on it. And they didn't 
want directors to get anchored on their first  
idea. So they forced them to bring three. And 
once those directors once they picked a story,  
they kept things as small as possible 
for as long as possible. They allowed  
directors and small teams to spend years in story 
development. Years refining the core of a story,  
slicing it away until it was something simple. And 
it might seem excessive to allow directors and a  
small team to spend years in development, but the 
costs and complexity only explode once they move  
into production. So they wanted to keep them small 
for as long as possible. And during that time,  
they'd have dailies where they show their 
work on a daily basis and get feedback on it.  
Brain trust meetings where they bring in people 
who haven't been seeing the work every day to get  
outside advice. And when I went to meet with 
Ed and we spent uh like 10 straight hours  
talking about constraints that he had implemented 
and he told me about one problem at Pixar that he  
called the beautifully shaded penny problem. And 
this was an issue where directors and animators  
conscientiousness would actually work against them 
and they would end up getting obsessed with say  
perfecting the shading on a penny in the 
background of a scene that viewers would  
basically never even notice. But they would keep 
working at it, working at it, and they'd start  
losing time and other things that really needed to 
be done. And so, fortunately, Pixar came up with a  
high-tech solution, popsicle sticks velcro-ed to 
a wall. And each popsicle stick represented the  
amount of work that one animator could do in one 
week. And they could keep animating that penny if  
they wanted, but the popsicle sticks would be set 
up next to all the different things that needed  
to be animated. So they could visually see that 
if they wanted to keep working on that penny,  
they had to start taking away popsicle sticks 
from some other character that really needed to be  
animated. And making the constraint visual solved 
the problem instantly. In a way, I think this ties  
back to General Magic. Like their main problem 
was not defining a problem they were solving.  
Their customer was Joe Six-Pack. Nobody knew 
the guy. They didn't know what he needed. So  
they never defined a problem they were solving 
which meant that there was never a reason to stop,  
never a reason not to do certain things. And it 
actually plays into a really hardwired human bias.  
It's called subtractive neglect bias. 
We overlook subtractive solutions even  
when they're obviously the best solutions. In in 
a fun study that demonstrated this, adults were  
given a Lego structure and they had to balance a 
masonry brick on the top of the structure so that  
it wouldn't crush a Stormtrooper action figure 
that was sitting below. And they could add as many  
Lego blocks to the structure to bolster it as they 
wanted. But they had to pay to add those blocks.  
And yet almost everyone added multiple blocks 
when just taking one away that was upsetting the  
balance would have solved the problem for free and 
immediately. And that's what happened at General  
Magic because they didn't put firm constraints in 
place. Every time someone had a cool idea, they  
did it and it just added and got bigger and bigger 
and bigger until it lost any sort of core of  
what they were building, who they were building it 
for, when they were going to get it, how much was  
it going to cost. They didn't put tight limits on 
any of those things. So everything just grew and  
grew and grew because that's how human psychology 
works. if you don't put constraints in place.  
The subtraction audit is this idea that we 
have to proactively be made to look at things  
that we can take away because we have a hardwired 
cognitive bias always to add to solve problems and  
never to take away. So let's say if we're talking 
about a team, sitting people down, going through  
all your types of meetings, your processes, your 
obligations, listing things, and you will come up  
with things that exist purely because of momentum, 
right? Maybe they served some purpose in the past,  
but now they're just hanging around and adding 
friction because we never take things away.  
List those things and then stop doing one of them. 
get together and say, "If I had to kill one thing  
in the next 90 days, what would it be?" And you'll 
find something that has outlived its purpose.  
And for individuals, the same is we're always 
adding adding, right? Like everyone keeps a to-do  
list until it becomes so long that they just have 
to like tear it up and and start over again. So,  
what can you take away? So, let me let me tell you 
how my own to-do list process worked. In the past,  
I would put down the things I had to do in 
a day. they'd be overly ambitious because of  
something called the planning fallacy, which is 
we always underestimate how long it takes to get  
things done. And so I'd carry some of them over 
the next day because they didn't get finished.  
And that would add and add until the list got 
longer and longer until I would eventually  
flip it over on my desk because it made me so 
anxious to look at it. And then as it got longer,  
I would just throw it in the garbage can and start 
over. And so when I did a subtraction audit, I was  
looking at what things really need to get done. 
And so many of the things on the list were not  
that important. So now I start each day one thing 
at the top of the list that if this gets done,  
it will have been a good day. Other things 
can be a bonus, but one main thing. And by  
subtracting all that stuff from my to-do list, 
it allowed me to focus. So I wasn't multitasking,  
which meant I was more productive, less stressful, 
and I knew the thing to focus on. And so  
if we want to have personal satisfaction and 
contentment, we have to start putting some guard  
rails around our choices. I got interested in 
constraints via a few routes. One of which is that  
I felt I needed to be better at them in my 
own projects, like draw better boundaries  
around my own amorphous ideas so that I 
could actually execute. Also, just after  
more than a decade of reading tons of psychology 
studies, I started to notice all these studies  
where people would become more creative when they 
were given less choice. Like you'd give inventors  
uh 20 pieces from a set of hundred and they 
would make something more creative than if  
you gave them all 100. or people would be able 
to name more white foods in 20 seconds than they  
could white things. Why the form of a haiku 
liberates creativity rather than stifling it.  
So I was really interested in that. And as the 
cognitive scientist Daniel Willingham says,  
you may think your brain is made for thinking, but 
it's actually made for preventing you from having  
to think whenever possible because thinking is 
metabolically costly. And so given full freedom,  
what you will do is go down what scientists call 
the path of least resistance. You will reach for  
solutions that are familiar, that you have seen 
before, that you have used before. And so it is  
in fact essentially impossible to be creative 
unless constraints are forced upon you that  
preclude the previous solutions that you are used 
to. Let's walk through three examples of that.
Early in his career, Theodore 
Geel, or aka Dr. Seuss was  
given a vocabulary list with words for children 
and asked if he could pick about 200 words only  
and write a book with only those from the list. 
And he looks at the list and he complains.  
He complains to his wife. He says, "There's 
no adjectives. How can I possibly do this?"  
In fine Seussian form, he compared it to 
making a strudel without any strudels.  
And then he decides he's just going to take the 
first two rhyming words on the list and whatever  
they are, he's going to write a book focused on 
those. And the first two rhyming words are cat  
and hat. And the rest is history. In fact, 
for Green Eggs and Ham, a subsequent book,  
he wrote that book on a bet that he couldn't 
write a book using only 50 words. And obviously,  
he did so. And because he had limited 
vocabulary, it forced him to experiment  
with rhythm and meter and explore in all 
these ways that other writers had not.  
Virginia Wolf is one of the most phenomenal 
cases of creative breakthrough coming from  
forcibly applying constraints to oneself. She 
used what the psychologist Patricia Stokes calls  
prelude constraints. Basically, Wolf saw that she 
was stuck in writing in a traditional form, even  
though the modern world was growing more complex 
and needed something different in its novels. And  
so, what she did was she outlined the traditional 
forms of narrative structure and then said,  
"I'm not allowed to use any of them." And so, she 
wrote a book in which even the omniscient narrator  
did not really know the main character very well. 
Even the narrator was searching for that person in  
the way that we in our own lives have to take bits 
and pieces of people to try to understand them.  
And this was her first modernist novel. It 
was her breakthrough called Jacob's Room.  
And her next three novels after that experiment 
are three of the hundred greatest novels  
ever written according to the greatest books.org. 
So it was by outlining exactly the old way,  
blocking herself from it, which forced her to 
come up with something totally new and that we  
now call her stream of consciousness. The Japanese 
novelist Haruki Murakami, who is an international  
phenomenon, didn't start writing until his late 
20s. And when he started trying, he realized he  
had a generic style that he didn't really like. 
It wasn't unique at all. And so in frustration,  
he decided to try writing instead of in his 
native Japanese in English, which he barely knew,  
and then reverse translating it back into his 
native Japanese. And it gave him this simple,  
clear, kind of mesmerizing rhythmic style that 
was totally his alone. And that's what he's  
recognized for. And that's why his books 
have been translated all over the world.  
So he said it was that forcing that constraint 
on himself to write in the simple English he  
knew and then translating it backward led to the 
creation of a completely new and unique style.  
So these are examples that applying constraints to 
people even when they're arbitrary often instantly  
make them more creative. And this ties back to 
general magic. General magic was built to give  
people complete freedom. No constraints only 
the limits of the imagination on what people  
could try to do. Pixar was built in the exact 
opposite way. People come with creative ideas  
and then they layer constraint after constraint 
after constraint on top of them to make sure that  
that creative idea is channeled into something 
manageable that they can actually make.
Chapter 2, the dangers of too much freedom. The 
idea of having too much freedom would have been  
crazy for most of human history where people were 
born into a role and had very little freedom to  
decide how their life would go. But starting 
with kind of the industrial revolution that  
started to change and in fact you can see that 
the idea of too much freedom starts to show up  
as a preoccupation among some of the greatest 
thinkers basically starting in the late 19th  
and then into the 20th century where people like 
Kierkegaard is writing about the dizziness of  
freedom meaning all of a sudden there's all this 
choice religion and rulers are structuring less  
of our lives so it's more up to us or Eric from 
writing about the urge to escape from freedom  
meaning that we don't feel grounded in a way and 
so we often look to be controlled in ways that  
sometimes can be productive or unproductive and 
in the late 19th century Emil Durkheim decided  
to do an analysis of suicide. What Durkheim found 
was that it is actually a sociological phenomenon  
that you could see different social trends 
increasing or decreasing rates of suicide.  
For example, when a country underwent an economic 
collapse, suicide increased. Not a huge surprise.  
But what he also saw was that when a country went 
through an economic boom, suicide also increased.  
Anything that unmoored people from their identity 
anchors, the familiar structures they were used to  
led to an increase in suicide. One of the terms 
Durkheim used was enemy which means essentially  
rulelessness. Whenever society was thrown into 
tumult in a way that removed the normal rules  
and reciprocal obligations between people and 
community grounding and meaning. It didn't matter  
if the economic fortunes were going up or down. 
If it removed those layers of structure, it caused  
more people to be anxious and desperate and and 
to take their own lives. And so it was really a  
completely new way of looking at the phenomenon of 
suicide as a sociological phenomenon. But it gets  
at a much bigger issue which is that the drive for 
ever-increasing freedom which seems on its face  
like it should be an unadulterated good actually 
comes with a lot of collateral damage. And we  
can see that today when the richest and most 
free parts of the world, the richest and most  
free areas in world history at that have these 
incredible rates of anxiety and depression that  
you wouldn't expect if more freedom and choice 
made us healthier and improved our well-being.  
Jonathan height, the social psychologist, he's 
written several books about human thriving and  
well-being. And that idea of enemy again 
rulelessness runs through every one of his  
books really. As he told me, it's not healthy for 
anyone to have access to everything everywhere all  
of the time. We are not equipped to have infinite 
choice because our brains are comparison engines.  
And so when there are too many choices, when we 
are overwhelmed by choice and possibility, we  
become unable to be happy with our own decisions 
because we're always comparing. Right? It's kind  
of a classic FOMO that's built into our brains, 
but it also occurs at a more sociological level.  
And this gets not just to Jonathan Height's 
work, but also to the political scientist  
Robert Putnam's work in bowling alone. So, as 
Putnam famously noted, your chance of dying in  
the next year is cut in half if you join a single 
club. Cut in half. Because social integration,  
being grounded by obligations to other people, 
not having total freedom over your own time,  
having what's called social control of time in 
some cases where you have to be in a certain place  
at a certain time and have certain reciprocal 
obligations to other people is hugely important  
for well-being. I mean, that's what Putnam raised 
the alarm about in his book Bowling Alone. that as  
people, as the title indicates, as people stopped 
being in bowling clubs and having collective  
entertainment and collective regular meeting 
times, this dissolution of these dense networks  
of reciprocal obligation would have tremendous 
effects on health, well-being, and longevity.  
That book came out in 2000, and I would say 
it looks absolutely prescient in retrospect  
where we've become more virtual. We're engaged in 
what height calls this online, these endless cycle  
of micro dramas populated with a cast of rotating 
characters, a total lack of social norms, few  
obligations. We we've we've often hyper tailored 
our lives so they're totally individualized just  
for ourselves. And that feels like something you 
would want, but it turns out not to help humans  
thrive. You can actually go back to the Soviet 
Union at one time when they tried to change the  
work week in a certain way to keep factories 
operating all of the time. And so they gave  
people different work weeks with four days of work 
and one day weekend. So very rarely did two people  
have the same work week. So it decoupled people's 
schedules and it was a social disaster. They had  
to completely undo it. Now on the other hand when 
there's kind of forced regulation of time like in  
Sweden you can see that in periods when a lot of 
the country is forced to take time off essentially  
the dispensing of anti-depressants plummets and 
it's proportional to the portion of the country  
that has time off and importantly it's true even 
among retired people. So it isn't just about  
having time for vacation or having time not 
to work. It's about the collective use, the  
collective enforcement of using time in a certain 
way. So, we always think we want more choice and  
more freedom over our own time, but there's a 
mountain of evidence showing that we actually  
want to give up some of our autonomy to sync with 
other people, preferably at a large scale because  
it's tremendously important for a hyper-social 
species like humans, uh, to to thrive. I think one  
of the ways that people have responded to this 
seemingly infinite choice in the modern world  
is to try to optimize more or what psychologists 
call maximize to make the best of everything and  
to make the best decisions. And in fact, we can 
see in research that maximizing behavior which is  
the attempt to evaluate tons of options and and 
make the best decision is actually on the rise. So  
we know that that's increasing as is perfectionism 
is increasing in many parts of the world.  
But that's actually a problem because maximizing, 
even though there's like tons of influencers who  
are showing you all these productivity hacks and 
how to maximize and how to get everything done,  
it makes us miserable and it's an illusion. 
And as Oliver Burkeman would say, they're just  
trying to help you avoid grappling with your 
mortality. They give you the illusion that you  
can actually get everything done if you only have 
the right system. But in fact, what you have to do  
is face the fact that you're mortal. You're going 
to die and ruthlessly prioritize based on that  
and set criteria as Herbert Simon would have said 
for satisficing what is a good enough solution  
instead of looking for what is the best. Herbert 
Simon is the thinker who had the biggest influence  
on this book of anyone. and he was trained as a 
political scientist but he won the highest award  
in computer science the touring award because he 
was a founding father of AI. He won the lifetime  
achievement award in psychology because he was 
a founder of cognitive psychology and then for  
good measure he won the Nobel Prize in economics 
and he was what I call an encouragable satisficer.  
Satisficing is a term that he developed that 
means picking something that is good enough.  
So it's in contrast to maximizing where you 
try to consider all of the options available  
and pick the optimal one based on evaluating 
everything you possibly can. And what Simon showed  
was that we have finite brains. And so even 
though classical economic theory says yes,  
we evaluate everything about every option and make 
the optimal choice, we can't actually do that.  
And when we strive to do it, we end up less happy 
and less satisfied with our decisions. So instead,  
what we should do is proactively satisfice. Set 
criteria for what's good enough and then go with  
that. And Simon did this everywhere. He had the 
same few sets of clothes he wore, same breakfast.  
He had simple decision rules that he used for 
things. You could almost accuse him of having  
low expectations if not for his trophy case, which 
has the highest awards in economics, psychology,  
and computer science. What we want to do 
is get a system that works well enough.  
think of criteria ahead of time for decisions 
that are good enough and then take those  
because you can't realistically optimize 
or maximize anyway. We can't grapple with  
infinite choice and it just makes us miserable. 
So, I don't want to tell you not to be ambitious  
because that's what it sounds like. But you should 
start setting criteria for good enough solutions.  
It's not about having low standards. 
It's about having any standards at all  
that can possibly be met. And it will 
make you a happier, more satisfied person  
and lead you to prioritize in the realization 
that you simply can't get everything done.  
And what you actually need to do is start 
cutting stuff out so you can prioritize.
Chapter 3. How to fix bottlenecks. Eli Goldratt 
was an Israeli physicist who in the 1970s  
was studying how atoms behave in crystals when 
a friend of his came to him with a comparatively  
pedestrian problem which was how to increase 
production at his chicken coop building business.  
The friend had a small business building chicken 
coops and he noticed that even when he hired extra  
help it didn't increase the overall output 
of chicken coops. So he was kind of confused.  
Of course, he asks his physicist friend if he can 
study the process, basically an assembly line,  
and see if he can improve production. And what 
Goldratt notices is that in the production of  
chicken coops, there's always one step that 
limits the overall output of the system,  
no matter what's going on anywhere else. And this 
observation became the core of what he called the  
theory of constraints, which is the idea that 
a single bottleneck or the single slowest step  
in a system limits the overall output of the 
system. And so in the case of the chicken coops,  
he took one individual worker and moved them 
from one of the steps that had plenty of people  
working at it and moved that one worker over to 
the bottleneck, the slowest step, and that tripled  
the overall output of the system. And Goldratt 
expanded on this idea in a bizarre novel called  
The Goal, in which this fictional plant manager 
named Alex Rogo has to save a manufacturing plant  
and his marriage. And luckily, he uh bumps into 
his old physics professor who gives him these  
like Socratic lessons. You know, go figure, of 
course, it's his his Jedi like physics professor.  
And it's a very strange book, but Alex starts to 
see the world through these kind of bottleneck  
glasses where when he takes his son's boy scout 
troop on a hiking trip, he realizes that some  
of the kids are really fast hikers, but then 
there's Herby, this kid who's really slow.  
And so the fast kids can go way ahead, but 
it it doesn't speed up the whole team because  
the whole team can only go at the pace of 
Herby, the slowest hiker. And so he decides to  
take the backpacks and redistribute some of the 
weight so the faster kids have heavier packs and  
Herby has a lighter one. slows down the fastest 
kids but speeds up the overall group because it  
speeds up Herby who was the bottleneck. So Alex 
the plan manager starts to see the whole world in  
this light and he saves the plant and he saves his 
marriage and again it's this quite strange book.  
That said it sold 10 million copies and you know 
Jeff Bezos made all of his executives read it and  
hosted a full day book club on it. It spawned a 
whole genre of even more bizarre business novels  
where people get these lessons from professors 
they bump into. And it also gave birth to a  
1,200-page theory of constraints handbook. In that 
handbook, Goldratt wrote the forward and he asks,  
"Can I condense all of the theory of 
constraints into one sentence?" And he says,  
"I can do even better than that. I 
can condense it into one word, focus."  
The the system constraint shows you where to 
focus because if you apply effort somewhere else,  
it doesn't change the overall fate of the 
system. Let me give you an example from a theory  
of constraints, a case study that I was learning 
while I was researching the book. And it's about  
manufacturing, but it's it's an analogy for 
something more broadly relevant. In this case,  
it dealt with a company that made custom 
gear boxes for industry. So, every single  
one had to be totally customized and they were 
struggling essentially. And so, they decided to  
do a theory of constraints audit. Basically, where 
is work piling up? Why are we not able to produce  
these more rapidly? And it turned out that their 
bottleneck was in the tiny 15 person design office  
where the designs of the gearboxes were made. The 
designers were totally ravaged by multitasking.  
They're changing focus more than 50 times 
a day. And it turns out that that destroys  
your ability to get stuff done. It raises stress 
levels. It makes you worse at everything you do.  
So it led to errors and eventually it led 
to quitting. So they implemented a rule  
called stop starting and start finishing. You 
were not allowed to take in a new design and start  
it until you had finished one. In a few months, 
they were getting three times as many designs out  
the door. And it dropped the total time for the 
company making a gearbox from 1 year to 2 months  
because that was the bottleneck. But this kind of 
focus bottleneck shows up all over the place. Like  
modern work is insidious. It is just hideously 
insidious at adding things to our plate.  
More communication, more meetings, more 
apps, more dashboards, more obligations.  
Very rarely do those things get get taken 
away. So our attention and our ability to  
focus becomes the bottleneck. And unless we're 
kind of doing what I call subtraction audits,  
that's just going to grow and grow and grow. So, I 
think regularly people should take a look at what  
they're doing. Try to list things that maybe 
have outlived their usefulness. Maybe that's  
a tool. Maybe that's some type of notification. 
Maybe it's some type of meeting. List them. And  
if there's something that's outlived its 
usefulness and is only adding friction,  
take it away. Subtract it. But we have to do 
that regularly because we we just are not wired  
to solve problems by taking things away. they have 
to proactively be attuned to it. So that theory  
of constraints, that idea of applying effort 
at the bottleneck can be incredibly impactful  
even if the system is just you or an individual. 
For example, there's a woman named Sheila Taormina  
who in 1992 was a swimmer at the University of 
Georgia and she tried to make the Olympic team,  
went to the US Olympic trials, failed to make 
it, wasn't even close really, decided to retire.  
But then for one of her last classes at the 
University of Georgia, she took management 577 in  
which she learned about the theory of constraints. 
And for her class project, she decided to apply  
the theory of constraints to her own training and 
make a plan to drop 3 seconds from her 200 meter  
freestyle. So she goes, she does like an audit 
of her training. What's my bottleneck? She asks.  
And it turns out it's her strength, her 
power. She's only 5'2, which is really small  
for an elite swimmer. and she has an incredible 
aerobic engine, incredible aerobic endurance,  
but that's what her coaches have her working 
on, aerobic endurance over and over and over,  
but she's already great at that. Whereas, she's 
limited by her strength, but they don't have her  
working on that. She decides to un-retire. She 
gets a different coach who's willing to work  
with her. Four years later, in 1996, she swims 
exactly 3 seconds faster, makes the Olympic team,  
becomes a gold medalist in the relay, and 
you can see pictures of her. She's like  
half a foot shorter than her relay 
teammates. She retires again.  
Then she decides to come out of retirement. She 
has this new way of looking at her training as  
what's my limiting factor that I should focus 
on. She comes out of retirement, switches to  
triathlon, wins the US national championship, 
goes to the Olympics, finishes sixth. Then  
she learns fencing and horse jumping and goes to 
the Olympics again in modern pentathlon. Becomes  
the only woman ever to compete in three different 
sports in four summer Olympics. and she was going  
to retire in 1992 if not for learning about the 
theory of constraints in a management class.
Chapter 4, regaining our focus in an 
attention economy. As Herbert Simon said,  
in an information-rich environment, there's 
a poverty of whatever it is that information  
consumes, and that thing is attention. And I would 
say we are in a very information-rich environment.  
And so our attention is at risk. You can see 
this in all sorts of work like Gloria Mark who  
did incredible research on attention in people's 
workplaces. When she started about 20 years ago,  
the average worker switched screens about every 
2 and 1/2 minutes or so. And then by about 2012,  
it was 75 seconds. But later on it was down to 
about 45 seconds. And that's where it stuck. So,  
we switch screens about every 45 seconds. And 
that turns out to be incredibly stressful. Like,  
you can measure this in our immune systems, in 
our heart rate variability, that the more often  
we're switching, the higher our stress level is 
at the end of the day. And the worse we are at the  
various tasks because multitasking, it turns out, 
is not actually possible. It's actually your brain  
dropping one set of rules essentially and having 
to activate another. But there's a residue left  
on the brain. As Dr. Mark describes it. Your brain 
is like a whiteboard. And when you switch from one  
thing to another, you erase the whiteboard, but 
the residue stays on there. And so the more times  
you do it during the course of the day, the more 
residue there is and the harder it is for you to  
focus on any one particular thing. And so what are 
some of the recommendations? Well, first of all,  
batching your tasks. Dr. Mark found that people 
check email on average about 77 distinct times  
per day. And that's a lot of multitasking. That's 
separate checks. That's not numbers of emails.  
And so instead, you want to batch that email if 
you can. So you're you're doing a certain task  
at a certain time instead of toggling between 
many within one hour. Maybe one hours for email  
and the next hours for something else so that 
you're not mixing them all together. And I  
would be really wary about starting your day in 
your inbox. I know that's the first instinct is  
to go check what's there. But you want to be 
wary of something called the ziggarnic effect,  
which is this psychological effect that unfinished 
tasks leave an imprint on your brain that takes  
some of your cognitive bandwidth until that loop 
is closed, until it's finished. And because your  
inbox is probably a source of an unlimited number 
of unfinished things, you might not want to be  
starting your day that way because you'll already 
be using up some of that cognitive bandwidth that  
you might want to focus for other projects. 
Doesn't mean you can't do your email, but  
maybe shift it after you've done some of whatever 
the most important task for the day is. Another  
is that as you're multitasking, attention is like 
a bucket and you want to take breaks before that  
bucket overflows or else it takes more time to 
recover. Maybe the thing that scared me the most  
in all of the research that I did for this book 
was Gloria Mark's research on self interruption.  
That means thoughts that interrupt you when 
you're trying to focus. And what she found  
was that we become accustomed to a certain level 
of distraction. So let's say that's notifications  
from your phone or messages popping up or other 
people interrupting you. Eventually, as if you  
have some kind of internal distractometer, you 
become accustomed to that rhythm. And then if you  
put away all those distractions and silence your 
notifications and say, "Now I'm going to focus."  
You will simply self-interrupt with intrusive 
thoughts at the same rate to which you've become  
accustomed. So you will not be able to say, 
"Now I'm just going to focus." you you will  
continue to interrupt yourself at that customary 
rhythm. If you're not structuring your focus,  
then it will be co-opted. And this is why it shows 
in studies of cognitive tests where if people  
have a phone visible, even if it's off, even if 
they can't use it or touch it, if it's visible,  
it decreases their performance on the cognitive 
task. And the more phone dependent they are,  
the bigger that effect. So start by trying to put 
it out of the room when you really have to focus.  
But try to alter your cadence of interruptions so 
that you can train your ability to focus for at  
least a half hour and an hour at a time here and 
there. And finally, do something called cognitive  
outsourcing. Put a notebook or a pad on your desk 
next to you. And when some intrusive thought pops  
up about what you should be checking or what you 
didn't respond to, write it down. That's called  
cognitive outsourcing. And it takes that intrusive 
thought out of your brain, puts it somewhere else,  
and improves your ability to focus on the task 
at hand. I think one of the big challenges with  
modern work is that it can become so amorphous, 
especially if some of the time you work from home  
that it can kind of fill every gap in your 
life. And that's not really great for your  
productivity or your your mental well-being. And 
so we should set up structures around our work,  
both seasons. Humans are built for seasonality, 
not doing the same thing every season,  
and for cycling between times of hard work and 
and times of rest. As the music producer Rick  
Rubin has noted, discipline and ritual is actually 
the structure that then allows people to do their  
best creative work. That they don't want to be 
totally free in the rest of their life. They  
want to be free within that box of discipline 
and ritual that liberates them to create.  
And so, one of the examples of this I love was 
the time I spent with the writer Isabel Allende,  
who is one of the bestselling writers in history. 
She's produced a bestselling book about every  
year and a half for the last 40 years, 80 million 
copies in all. When she's written about, like in  
magazine features, because she has magical realism 
in some of her writing, she's written about often  
as if she is like a medium who's just these 
spirits are speaking through her and because her  
first book was called The House of the Spirits. 
But in reality, when I spend time with her,  
she thrives on this rigid ritual and structure and 
rhythm. She starts every single book on January  
8th. And one of the reasons she does that is 
because then everyone in her life knows that  
they better get what they need from her by January 
7th because then she's going to be out of touch.  
She goes into a room where she feels her story 
lives. She keeps it austere so there's not  
a lot of distractions. She lights a candle to 
start her workday. She blows it out at the end  
of the workday to signal the end of the day, the 
turning off of her brain. She closes the door. She  
doesn't come back in until she starts the next 
day. and she always comes back on January 8th,  
even when she went through a personal tragedy with 
the death of her daughter uh at a young age. And  
she said, "I I don't know if I ever write again. 
I lost the muse. I didn't have the inspiration."  
But January 8th rolled around and she 
said, "Well, I have to try because my  
ritual's coming up." And she did it again and 
got going again and wrote more bestsellers.  
As she told me, without this structure 
and this rhythm, I could not do it.  
So from the outside it seems that her creation is 
this story of boundless creativity but really it's  
one of boundaries that channel her focus that give 
her life seasonality and ritual that keep bringing  
her back and back and back and back again and 
empower her creativity rather than stifling it.  
I myself as an independent writer in the 21st 
century have also had this experience of living  
with more freedom and autonomy than almost anyone 
in history. But then have had the experience  
of going back and putting some constraints in 
my life in place and those making me thrive in  
a way that total freedom absolutely did 
not. When I started working on range,  
I was working as an investigative reporter also 
at ProPublica. But toward the end of the book,  
I left that job because I wasn't going to be able 
to finish the book. I was thinking I'd go back,  
but then the book kind of took on a life of its 
own and and I went on my own. And that was a dream  
in many ways because for years it had been my 
goal to get complete autonomy as a professional  
to be able to spend every minute of my day in the 
manner of my own choosing. And so that's what I  
did. I had total freedom. Fast forward about two 
years of that and I realized there is absolutely  
such a thing as too much autonomy. My life became 
so atomized. I had a million different competing  
priorities and I had no real ritual. So, my 
workday expanded to fit every moment that it  
possibly could. I had no real seasonality in 
my life. I had no structure. I had no rhythm.  
And I wasn't really syncing up with other people 
either. And I realized instead of doing that,  
I actually needed to prioritize ruthlessly 
and focus on a smaller number of things.  
have a workday that started and ended at a certain 
time, have certain seasonality to my projects.  
I needed grounding in my community. So, I joined 
the board of a nonprofit in my community, an early  
childhood education center that served families in 
need. I started going to shuffle dance meetups and  
classes so that I could have embodied experience 
with strangers on a regular basis. So that I'm  
having this embodied experience with strangers 
that I want instead of living totally unto myself.
Chapter 5, the myth of the lone genius. So in 
most history books or books about innovation,  
individual innovations tend to be identified with 
individual creators or inventors. And I think  
part of that is because it makes the story tidy, 
right? It's easy to link and also often because  
one individual wins what science historians call a 
priority dispute. Like they fight to be the person  
who's remembered in the history books, but 
it actually is not a good representation  
of how innovation really happens. The real 
story is one of what science historians call  
multiple discovery. Multiple discovery is a term 
popularized by Robert Merton who was kind of the  
founder of the sociology of science. And what he 
noticed was that most world changing breakthroughs  
are arrived at by multiple people in almost the 
same way at almost the same time even though  
those people are working independently. And he 
found that this was the norm with world-changing  
breakthroughs, not the exception. The light bulb, 
the telephone. Alexander Graham Bell and Elisha  
Gray actually filed with the patent office on 
the same day for the telephone. The microphone,  
the camera, the jet engine, the transistor, all of 
these things, even though they're often identified  
with one individual when the story is told, 
multiple people who were not working together  
were arriving at them at the same time. And what 
that tells us about the history of innovation  
is that we've actually overvalued and over 
prioritized the narrative of the lone genius  
working on their own and breaking through in a 
way that nobody else ever has. Because if you look  
at the actual history, there are lots of 
people converging on a solution. So it tells  
a completely different story that there are these 
boundaries that are being set up and channeling  
people toward a breakthrough. Not that those 
geniuses aren't important, but that the context  
that's pushing them toward a certain problem, put 
defining a certain problem and putting it in frame  
is more important than any individual mind. 
Let's walk through three examples of that.  
Dmitri Mendeleev was a Siberian genius 
chemist. And the story that's told about him  
is that in the winter of 1869, he was trying 
to find an order to all of the elements,  
the chemical building blocks of the universe. 
And that he thought there had to be some order,  
but he just couldn't find it. There had to be 
some method to nature's prodigious madness.  
So he famously spends three days, three sleepless 
days, working to try to order the elements  
until he can't stay awake any longer. He tips 
forward, his unruly beard folds into his arms,  
and he falls asleep. and drifts off into 
the most impactful nap in human history.  
And in that nap, he sees the elements whirling and 
dancing around him until they snap into columns.  
And then the columns snap together to form 
a grid. And as you move across the grid,  
the properties of elements repeat predictably and 
periodically, hence the name periodic table. So  
supposedly Mendeleev wakes up and writes it down 
as a finished system. That's the periodic table.  
That story is beautiful. The Royal Society 
celebrated it. Uh, the mattress company Casper  
used it in their marketing. Uh, Matthew Walker 
in his blockbuster Why We Sleep touted it as the  
ultimate proof of our dreaming brain loosed from 
the bounds of reality. It's a beautiful story.  
It is also utterly false. That did not happen. 
And the problem with that telling is that  
it obscures the real secret to Mendeleev's 
success. Mendeleev had a publishing contract  
for a two volume introduction to chemistry 
textbook. He had only gotten eight of the then  
63 known elements into volume 1. So he 
had to get the other 55 into volume 2  
and he had to do it in a way that made sense to 
his customers which were intro chemistry students.  
So he was not even looking for a fundamental law 
of nature. He was experimenting with a way to save  
space in his textbook. And so he realized he would 
have to start describing families of elements  
together in order to fit in the space he had 
allotted. And it was in doing that as he started  
sorting elements into families with similarities 
that he noticed the periodic pattern. He was a  
genius. He's the one that's credited in history 
books. But he wasn't the only one. Not even close.  
In fact, there were zero periodic tables before 
1860. And then there were six in the next 8 years.  
All of which had the general idea. Mendeleev 
had some advantages, but all of them got the  
periodic pattern. Why would that happen? Well, in 
1860, there's a meeting in Carl's Rua, a chemistry  
conference that's called for about a little more 
than 100 people because they want to agree on  
some standards for chemistry. Everyone is doing 
things differently. People are using chemical  
notation differently. They're weighing elements 
differently, all these different things, which  
means that work can't communicate across space 
because people aren't working the same standards.  
And at that meeting, an Italian named Stanislau 
Kanitsaro says basically, "Here's how we're all  
going to measure the weight of elements from now 
on." And he passes out a pamphlet that says, "Here  
are the weights." He got some of them wrong, but 
that doesn't matter. And here's how we're going  
to measure them going forward. And that instantly 
allowed work in different labs across the world  
to communicate across space because now people 
could compare their work to others and understand  
what others were doing. If you go back and look at 
the history of innovation, that's often the case  
that setting standards essentially expands the 
problem solving team because it allows work to  
communicate across space. So, it's not very sexy, 
but it is very often a precursor for breakthrough.  
The famous story of Einstein coming up with 
special relativity involves his thought experiment  
where he's riding a beam of light. And it's a 
beautiful story, but Einstein didn't tell it  
until decades after it supposedly happened. 
It's really unclear if that truly influenced  
him at the time or if it was really useful at 
all. What we know really influenced Einstein  
was a much more quotidian well-defined problem 
that a bunch of scientists had framed and and  
put into the open for solution. And that was 
called the magnet and wire problem. Essentially,  
it involved moving a magnet and a wire past 
one another to induce an electrical current.  
And the problem was the science explained it 
differently depending on which one was moving.  
And Einstein didn't like that. He said, why should 
the laws of physics be different depending on if  
the magnet is moving past the wire or the wire 
is moving past the magnet? And what he ultimately  
realized is that the laws of physics didn't have 
to be different. Our conception of time and space  
had to change. And that's the reality 
of this breakthrough was that other  
scientists framing a specific problem that 
he could think about led him to something  
groundbreaking. It wasn't the freedom of this 
thought experiment. It was this well-defined  
problem. And that's very often the case in 
the history of innovation that someone just  
defines a problem really well. And that draws 
a bounding box for people's creative thinking.  
We think of Darwin away on this boat on the 
Beagle, away from other academics, away from other  
researchers, totally free to think and create. 
And that's how he makes this breakthrough that  
changes the world. But in fact, he was totally 
enmeshed in the thinking of his day. Darwin was  
not so much a creator as he was a synthesizer. He 
was really taking work that already existed and  
combining it in new ways. There were all these 
questions that his peers were laying out in a  
really well-defined way. things like, why are we 
finding marine fossils on the top of mountains?  
Why do the bones in the flipper of a whale 
and the wing of a bat and the arm of a human  
have so much in common? Why are we finding fossils 
of animals that don't exist on Earth anymore?  
Right? If everything was created in a small amount 
of time, we shouldn't be seeing those things.  
In fact, Darwin would correspond with breeders 
and gardeners. He had about 240 pen pals that  
he would pepper for information. And he learned 
that breeders already had a name for spontaneous  
traits that are passed down from one animal to 
another. They called them sports. So Darwin was  
really taking all this knowledge accumulated 
in his day and these questions that had come up  
and synthesizing them into one coherent hole. And 
that was much more his breakthrough than a single  
creative leap. It was synthesizing the things that 
were available and applying them to the questions  
that other peers around him were were posing. 
As groundbreaking as Darwin's ideas were,  
Alfred Russell Wallace came up with basically the 
exact same things at the exact same time. In fact,  
when he sent some of his writing to Darwin, Darwin 
wrote to his mentor and said, "I have never seen  
a crazier coincidence." Basically, and he said, 
"Everything I've written is going to be out before  
I publish it." Because it was so similar. And 
there was one commonality between these two men,  
which is they had both read the same essay 
by Thomas Mouthys, his essay on population,  
where he argued that humanity would always reach 
a crisis point because the population would expand  
faster than the food supply could expand to 
meet it. And so we would always grow and grow  
and grow and then have a crash because resources 
wouldn't keep up with population growth. Now,  
Malthus turned out to be right for some of human 
history, but wrong going forward. But it didn't  
matter that he was wrong. He framed this problem 
in a way that made both Wallace and Darwin,  
who read it at about the same time, think about 
how must species in nature respond to this if they  
start to outgrow the available food supply. And 
the answer was they die. They die out and there's  
competition for limited resources. And they both 
reading that essay, which even though it was wrong  
about the future of humanity, defined a problem 
so well that they both said it was almost like  
a light bulb going on where all their past work 
was channeled into a specific problem. Malthus  
was what I like to call a problem setter. I think 
of setter like the person who sets the ball in a  
volleyball team for the subsequent spike, which 
would be Darwin and Wallace in this case. And  
when I was going through the history of creative 
breakthrough, problem setters don't get a lot of  
the fame and attention, but they are always there 
just before a breakthrough. Someone who defines  
a problem really well. Sometimes they are wrong 
about what they think their own solution is to it,  
but they're always defining it really well. One 
of the great examples was David Hilbert, who's  
arguably the most influential mathematician of 
the 20th century. And around the turn of the 20th  
century, what he decided to do was basically make 
a list, go survey all the mathematics of the day,  
make a list of about two dozen problems that he 
thought were important, define them really well,  
like really home in on what should 
the definition of this problem be.  
He he wrote them out in a pamphlet and he 
passed them out at a meeting to his colleagues  
and it set an agenda for math in the 20th century 
and most of those problems went on to be solved.  
As brilliant of a mathematician as he was, and 
he's one of the most brilliant who ever lived,  
it's widely acknowledged that his biggest 
influence was collecting a set of problems,  
defining them really clearly, and it set an 
agenda for everything that came since. So that's a  
that's kind of an extreme example, but everywhere 
in history when you see creative breakthrough,  
you see someone just before who defines the 
problem really narrowly and that draw that  
attracts other minds to the problem. The title of 
one of my favorite scientific papers I read while  
working on this book was called wrong but seinal 
and it went through a history of scientific papers  
where someone would come up with something really 
intriguing but that was wrong but because it would  
lead them to define some certain problem or 
challenge it would instantly draw all these  
other minds to that well- definfined problem and 
that would typically lead to some Nobel level  
breakthrough. So these were problem setters who 
may have been wrong about their own solution but  
they defined a problem. so well that it empowered 
other people to start working in a productive way.  
Problem defining is a skill that's open to a 
huge number of people and incredibly important.  
And some of that can be as simple as going out 
and doing research and characterizing a problem,  
right? Like this is the best of market research. 
You go out and you see some problem. You observe  
people in their work world. You try to figure 
out some problem that they're all orbiting  
and then define it for them. There's one example 
I loved of this actually. There's an engineer  
named J. Shri Seth. She worked at the company 
3M and she's won the Society of Women Engineers  
Lifetime Achievement Award that, you know, one of 
the highest awards you can win. And she described  
her process as mosaic building. What she would 
do is she would go around to colleagues to other  
inventors, kind of interview them about their 
work, look at their work, try to figure out what  
problem did she think their work might solve, 
and then when she would detect a common problem  
among a bunch of different people who are working 
apart from each other, she would get them in a  
room together and then pitch them and say, "Here's 
the problem that I think you're all orbiting."  
And she would try to define that problem and say, 
"That's why we should all work on it." So I think  
some of it is just finding out what people are 
doing and trying to as narrowly as possible define  
what problem it might solve and being being really 
specific about it. So there's some research in the  
new book about what's called specific curiosity 
which is when you are not just kind of roaming  
but taking on a certain question that intrigues 
you and going down a rabbit hole on that. And  
when you're going down those rabbit holes, just 
looking for some really specific curiosity that  
you can well define and even write out and refine 
and pitch to someone um that can really prompt  
other people's creative engines. There 
are other businesses like Tony Fidel who  
was the lead designer of the iPod and he then went 
on to co-found the smart thermostat company Nest  
and he's obsessed with constraints. And so 
one of the things he made the team at Nest do  
was he made them work inside of a literal box, 
right? Right? He made them prototype the packaging  
before they had a product because he said only 
things that fit on this package will convey what  
problem we are solving to the customer who sees 
it. So get on this box the features that tell the  
customer what problem of yours are we solving. 
So he was always using these exercises to try  
to force a team to define the problem they were 
solving. I think he mentors entrepreneurs now  
and his his biggest piece of advice is that 
they should write the press release for what  
they're doing before they start doing it. And it's 
really just an exercise that's getting them to try  
to force them to define the problem they think 
they'll be solving before they start working.  
I think problem setting or this problem definition 
is a really undervalued skill. There's this one  
famous saying that people don't want a quarterinch 
drill, they want a quarterinch hole in the wall.  
And what it means is when you're trying to 
give people a product or service, instead of  
giving them the thing, you should understand 
what is the problem they actually need solved  
and then you can figure out various ways to attack 
it. And I don't think we spend enough time doing  
this, right? We we much more think about coming up 
with ideas as opposed to coming up with problems.  
Let me give you an example. General Magic had 
lots of third party app developers because they  
were creating the app store before the app store. 
And one of those third party app developers was  
named Jeff Hawkins. And Hawkins had created 
an app for the General Magic operating system  
called Graffiti. And what Graffiti did was if you 
took a stylus and made some strokes on a screen,  
it would translate that into letters. When it 
became clear that General Magic was going to fail,  
Hawkins took graffiti and created his own 
device. It had three functions: calendar,  
contacts, memopad. General Magic had all that and 
a million things more. What Hawkins did was he  
identified a clear customer problem. This was busy 
professionals wanted to sync their calendars and  
contacts and take them on the go. And he did three 
of the million things that General Magic did,  
but put them into a coherent device that 
showed the users why and how it was going  
to solve their problem. And that was the Palm 
Pilot. And it became a smash hit in the same  
era as General Magic. Demis Hassabis 
who was a founder of Google DeepMind  
and recently won the Nobel Prize in chemistry 
even though he's not a chemist said recently  
that the most important skill now which is 
becoming even more important in the age of AI  
is defining a good problem finding a good problem 
and defining it really well because with the tools  
we have and the brains we have it's making that 
definition narrow enough that you really channel  
thinking and I think that's a skill that's 
only going to become more important important,  
but it doesn't feel like creation. And so we often 
overlook it. This importance of making boundaries  
around the problem that's trying to be solved. And 
if you look at the history of innovation, what the  
science historian James Burke called the jigsaw 
of invention, you can see one well-defined problem  
passing to the next in kind of a relay race of 
invention that leads to things that change the  
world. In Burke's own work, he had a TV show 
called Connections. And one of my favorite  
episodes was where he draws a line from one 
narrow problem to another that goes from medieval  
castle battlements all the way to film projectors. 
Medieval battlements were shaped a certain way in  
order to get rid of visual blind spots so that you 
could see who was attacking you. And when they got  
rid of those visual blind spots, that meant that 
people firing cannons had to move farther away  
basically. And when they moved farther away, they 
needed to see farther to where they were going to  
shoot. and eventually it led to film projectors. 
It wasn't just some giant leap, but it was one  
tightly defined problem after another. And that 
is kind of the march of innovation. It's not  
single lone geniuses who just break away from 
everything in the past. It's much more one  
problem after another. And the philosopher of 
science Thomas Malthus wrote a famous book called  
the structure of scientific revolutions 
in which he talked about paradigm shifts  
where some creator would come up with something 
that was so different than what came before  
they would essentially leave people on either side 
of this break speaking different languages like  
they couldn't even understand one another. And so 
that did feel like it's this lone genius breaking  
through in a way that changes everything. And that 
became very famous that that term paradigm shift.  
sped through politics and business and everything. 
But later on, Kuhn was working on a book that he  
didn't finish by the time he died. But a few years 
ago, it was just published. And in that book,  
he takes a very different tack and he talks 
about the evolutionary nature of discovery.  
And the subtitle of the book, I think, 
speaks for itself, an evolutionary theory  
of scientific development. He had nuanced 
that view of the paradigm shift into one  
of successive narrow problems that are solved 
one after another. and that lead to breakthrough.  
Of course, that work of his didn't get as famous 
because it's not as sexy as the whole paradigm  
shift thing. But the history of innovation 
really is one narrowly defined problem  
after another. And I think we should all try 
to do that. And whatever we're working on,  
what is the most succinct way that I can 
define the problem that I'm trying to work on?
[music]
Want to support the channel?  
Join the Big Think Members community where 
you get access to videos early and free.