最近有个大消息啊,都在说不得了啦!香港稳定币法案通过,一个多月后就要正式生效了这个消息不止震动了银行和金融圈对跨境电商、金融科技、国际政治和币权来说都是颠覆性的地圈來說都是顛覆性的 Some media say, this means that the central government is trying to take over the currency through Hong Kong hoping to use the stable currency to control the dollar Some other media say, this means that the development of financial technology and digital assets has entered a new stage which is a must for ordinary people Last week, my video editor also told me that he bought a US stock related to stablecoin The stock price doubled in a week and made him make a big profit He bought the shares of Circle, which is a USTC stablecoin issuer Circle recently passed the genius stablecoin bill in the US Congress With the good news, the stock price has increased by 600% 現在中美各大電商平台亞馬遜沃爾瑪京東阿里都已經開始摩拳擦掌準備加入這場穩定幣發行牌照的爭奪戰我相信大部分看到這些消息的人都會感到有點焦慮 因為每當媒體告訴我們又一個新的時代即將來臨而我們又不了解這個新事物時我們就會害怕自己又錯過了一個風口擔心因為沒有及時掌握這些信息而被時代所拋棄等等 放寬心啊,這不就是你訂閱老周橫煤的意義嗎?今天就讓老周來給大家深入解讀穩定幣究竟是幹什麼的?它真的能顛覆世界格局嗎?更重要的是,當世界兩大強國都在如火如荼布局穩定幣時這對普通人來說意味著什麼?你需要搶先入局嗎?你有必要感到焦慮嗎? 今天的內容我將從三個維度來分析穩定幣的影響國家、企業、個人我們從大講到小,從國家講到個人那麼在看完本視頻之後你既能獲得宏觀上的理解又能從微觀上知道自己應該做些什麼 Ok, let's start with a basic concept. What is stablecoin? Stablecoin Like the Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Trump coins you often hear, Stablecoin is also a virtual currency or digital encrypted currency. But we all know that the biggest reason why Bitcoin is the main virtual currency is being criticized is that these virtual currencies are all empty That is to say, they have no contradictions and do not have any connection with the economy of a country The value of Bitcoin comes from how much people believe it is worth It is worth a lot of money This is why the market price of Bitcoin is extremely unstable 2013年4月比特幣的價格在一天內跌掉了80%從2020年3月到2021年4月這13個月當中比特幣價格猛漲了1200%經常都像坐過山車一般 大起大落 而同樣是加密貨幣的穩定幣,價格卻是穩定的因為穩定幣的價值是錨定了某種主權貨幣的,比如美元舉例,美國公司Circle所發行的穩定幣叫USDC它的價值始終以1/1錨定美元因此一枚USDC的價值理論上永遠等於1美元 背後的機制也很簡單Circle 沒發行一枚USDC就必須在銀行帳戶裡存入一美元儲備金並接受第三方監管因此在理論上用戶隨時可以用一枚USDC來兌換一美元現金 這時有人可能會有些疑問你這穩定幣既然跟法幣是1:1矛定的那不就相當於只是個數字化的法幣嗎跟我微信錢包裡看到的餘額有什麼區別呢跟傳統數字支付比如支付寶、微信支付和PayPal不同的是穩定幣是通過區塊鏈來運作的完全不需要傳統的銀行系統來作為總結可以在全球範圍內自由流通 In other words, the stability of stable coins and the value of the currency and the advantage of Bitcoin and Ethereum as encrypted currency at the same time What are the advantages of encrypted currency? First, decentralized, no need for the government to unify, issue and manage Private companies can even issue coins personally 第二,不需要傳統銀行作為總介,就意味著能夠以極高的效率在全球進行轉帳,並且手續費比銀行要低得多。傳統銀行跨境轉帳需要2~5天左右,遇到週末和節假日就更久。但是加密貨幣全球轉帳都只需要幾秒鐘。傳統銀行的跨境轉帳手續費一般在30~50美金一筆,而加密貨幣的轉帳手續費起碼便宜10倍。 About the more useful and advantageous of the stable currency I will explain later why countries and enterprises want to arrange stable currency There will be more detailed explanations The global volume of stable currency is already very large And rising year by year Until May 2025 The total value of the global stable currency is about 23 billion US dollars It is equivalent to the GDP of major countries For example, Greece, New Zealand and Vietnam But so far, almost all stable currencies are at the dollar price USDT and USDC are the only stable currencies with more than 90% market share In 2024, the volume of stable currencies reached $27.6 trillion That is more than the global trading volume of Visa and Mastercard 好,那麼我們現在進入主題了第一個問題就是為什麼現在那麼多國家的政府都想要開始布局穩定幣呢?包括一向來嚴厲打擊一切虛擬貨幣的中國都允許香港政府開始大力發展穩定幣這是為什麼呢? 首先,国家介入意味着什么?以前稳定币都是由私营公司发布的比如全球使用量最大的两款稳定币USDT和USDC是由美国企业Tether和刚刚在本月上市的Circle公司发布的他们用来锚定稳定币的美元也是存在第三方的商业银行里的跟政府完全无关 Now, the country's intervention means that the government wants to monitor these encrypted currencies more regularly. At the same time, it also represents the government's hope that the stable currency can be managed and helped by the government to develop better and be used in more scenarios. 上個月,美國參議院通過了穩定幣統一標準保障法案簡稱Genius標誌著美國在建立穩定幣監管框架上邁出的重要一步這就是為什麼Circle的股價在6月5號上市當天就幾乎翻倍過去三周一度上漲接近600%歐盟也推出了MICA法規將穩定幣納入監管英國、日本、新加坡等國紛紛把穩定幣立法提上日程 The most striking thing is that on May 21, the Hong Kong Legislative Council passed the "Stabilization Bills" bill It will be in effect on August 1 At that time, the Hong Kong Bureau of Supervision will start accepting applications for the release of the Stabilization Bills This makes Hong Kong the first Asian region to provide a comprehensive regulatory framework for the Stabilization Bills Then, on June 26, Hong Kong government which is a week ago released the Hong Kong Digital Property Development Policy Declaration 2.0 One of the key points is the Stabilization B. The Hong Kong government said it encouraged the development of the Stabilization B and called on the market to propose a proposal to test the payment application of Stabilization B in the public scene and is planning to give a discount on the income and tax related to digital assets All these mistakes show the determination of Hong Kong to develop a stable currency Let's go back to the core question Why do the United States and China want to develop a stable currency? What are the benefits for the country? In this, the goal that the United States and China want to achieve is actually different Let's talk about the US first There are three main reasons for the development of US-based stable currency First, it protects the world's leading position in the US dollar If the use of stable currency is an inevitable trend all over the world Then the US needs to ensure that what everyone continues to use is still a stable currency with the US dollar as the foundation As mentioned above, USDT and USDC These two USDC coins have already occupied more than 90% of the global USDT Among them, USDT is 65% and USDC is 26% The stable currency with the currency as the currency of law In fact, it only enhanced the function of currency and expanded the application scene But the value of the stable currency is still the currency with the currency of law behind it You trust the US dollar because you believe in the US dollar If we now have a gold bar as a stable currency Do you dare to hold it? So the US government must ensure When the world starts to use a large amount of stable currency The US dollar stable currency still occupies the leading position in the world stable currency So it guarantees that the US dollar as the global currency dominate position is not affected 第二,疏導而非封堵,避免資金流入非美元體系隨著比特幣價格突破10萬美元,USDT和USDC市值屢創新高加密貨幣市場的韌性和可持續性已經逐漸獲得驗證早期很多人預言的"加密貨幣泡沫遲早崩盤,比特幣一夜之間歸零"等等的這類擔憂,似乎已經越來越不可能發生 既然如此,與其封堵不如疏導美國政府希望通過清晰的監管框架來規範並推動美元穩定幣的發展和使用讓美元穩定幣更廣泛地融入全球經濟生態這樣可以避免大量資金湧向非美元錨定的數字資產比如比特幣比如將來可能以人民幣或港幣錨定的穩定幣 Third, encourage private companies to continue their financial innovation and expand their dollar ecosystem In the traditional legal currency era, companies like PayPal have been able to raise their electronic payments In the era of encrypted currency, companies like Tether and Circle have been able to launch USDT and USDC 这些年来,美国私营企业始终处于全球金融创新的前沿这些创新不仅提升了美国金融体系的全球影响力也巩固了美元的主导地位因此,美国政府的稳定币法案并非要试图掌控或取代这些企业而是提供必要的监管支持营造更有力的环境,推动私营企业自主创新 当然这种支持的前提是稳定币的发展必须继续巩固美元的全球金融战略以及更好的服务于美国的企业和消费者好那么以上是美国的战略接下来我们来聊聊中国 一聊中國,第一個問題就來了為什麼中國大陸一向嚴厲禁止一切加密貨幣如今卻默許甚至鼓勵香港發展穩定幣呢?這個表面矛盾的背後隱藏著中共哪些更深層的戰略考量呢? Since 2017, China has been gradually attacking encrypted currency Finally, in 2021, it completely banned all transactions of encrypted currency Including stable currency The People's Bank of China has warned many times The circulation of encrypted currency and stable currency Not only will it impact the stability of the national financial system It will also lead to capital escape and weaken the international status of RMB 這就是為什麼香港突然通過了穩定幣法案的舉動是非常讓人感到意外的我們都知道現在的香港是無法獨立做出這種重大決策的所以即便這個動作不是中央的命令也必定是得到中央默許的 I think this is Beijing's strategic layout by Hong Kong Although Hong Kong is no longer the Hong Kong of the past But as a former Asian financial center Hong Kong is a ideal test field for the CCP's exploration of digital financial innovation Beijing's attempt on Hong Kong this time is even encouraged We can see from the participation of domestic enterprises 在香港監管局公布的首批穩定幣發行人殺核參與者名單中三家發行人當中的其中一家就是京東旗下的京東幣鏈科技根據證券時報的報導螞蟻集團旗下的螞蟻術科和螞蟻國際也公開表態將參與香港穩定幣牌照的申請並且已經開始和監管進行溝通 所以我认为,中共是想要用香港来作为一个试点,以观察稳定币的发展潜力和风险。通过香港布局,中国保留了一扇窗,既减少对传统美元支付体系的依赖,扩大人民币影响力,同时也获取了一张新数字经济的入场券。 You may not fully understand what I mean So next I will give you a detailed analysis of the purpose of the CCP's layout and development of the stable currency You will understand completely China's purpose is different from the United States Mainly these two points First, promote RMB internationalization without letting go of RMB control China has always wanted to improve the use rate of RMB in the international trade and global financial system But the major premise of RMB globalization is that your currency must be able to exchange freely But this is something that the CCP can't do As long as RMB is released today, it will surely lead to a huge amount of capital outflow and RMB will be greatly depreciated 你想想啊,如果明天中共突然宣布放開所有外匯管制了哪個中國人不趕緊把手頭上的人民幣大量換成美元啊?就算普通老百姓不懂,幾乎所有的中國富人必定都會這麼做把手頭上大量的流動現金換成美元並且轉移到私有財產更有保障的海外 But if China can launch a stable currency that is contrary to RMB, it may become a technical path that goes around the world. You can understand that stable currency is a technical coat of arms. It is essentially sealed with digital form, so that foreign users can pay and calculate through it. If this road is clear, the stable currency of RMB can become a hidden asset of RMB. But at the same time, there is no need to open foreign exchange controls, which will not lead to a large amount of capital outflow. Ok, then the second purpose of China's stable currency layout is to build a system to replace SWIFT to cope with the risk of being sanctioned by the United States in the future. As you know, the current global cross-border payment mainly relies on the SWIFT system controlled by the US. As long as the US cuts off the SWIFT system of a country, it is equivalent to cutting off your global financial bloodline. You can hardly trade with other countries in the world because you can't transfer money to others and they can't pay you. 比如说2012年伊朗因为发展核武器被美国制裁成为史上第一个被切断Swift系统的国家伊朗经济因此直接崩盘当年一年伊朗货币利亚尔直接贬值60%通货膨胀40%经济总量萎缩7% If Xi Jinping finally unites Taiwan, he must be prepared to be kicked out of SWIFT. In theory, RMB can be a technical means to bypass the SWIFT system. When China is cut off from SWIFT, countries that want to continue trading with China only need to accept RMB and stabilize the currency through the blockchain to complete trade. Many people may have a question What is the difference between RMB and RMB that we have heard in the past few years? Didn't you say that RMB is to fight against the US? Now RMB has just been launched, why do you want to do stable currency again? 但其实所谓的数字人民币可以对抗美元霸权规避美国制裁后切断税的风险完全就是不学无术的营销号和吃爱国饭的大批们忽悠大家的数字人民币的功能是为国内服务的根本就跟跨境支付无关中国人民银行所发布的中国数字人民币的研发进展白皮书里其实写得非常清楚了 The core goal of digital RMB is to replace M0, which is cash in circulation. The main purpose is to optimize the domestic payment system, enhance the ability of currency supervision, and fight against money laundering and tax evasion. To put it bluntly, digital RMB is a tool used to better monitor the national and the cash flow of the Chinese people. It allows you to use less WeChat and Alipay, and use the direct issuance of the central bank. Everything is in the control of the country's electronic cash flow. So, this is not a match for other countries. Digitalization of RMB is not designed for cross-border situations. It lacks the international accounting interface and does not have a currency matching mechanism. And the cross-border payment system is not something that a country can build on its own. You have to work with other countries' banks or financial institutions. 清算通道對接、數據透明合作、互認KYC體系等等等就算你把系統建立起來了別的國家也要願意加入你才行這才是中國默許香港嘗試跑通穩定幣系統的原因因為目前只有運用區塊鏈的跨境交易才能真正的繞過SWIFT系統 那么重点问题来了如果有一天人民币稳定币真的跑通了是不是就能撼动美元霸权了呢我不知道抖音和小红书上的爱国大V们是怎么说的但我认为其实还是不行 Let's think about it If the most important development of the stable currency is The world's main economy has developed Stable currency that is different from its own currency US issued US dollar stable currency EU issued EU dollar stable currency China issued RMB stable currency What does that mean? Means that after circling a big circle In fact, nothing has changed When we open all these confusing information and the money that makes people dizzy and directly to the essence of stable currency you will find that in fact, stable currency is just a digital package of existing legal currency In other words the final choice of which stable currency to use still depends on whether they trust the currency behind the stable currency If you don't understand, let's think about it. Why is the dollar now the world currency? Why is the global trade almost all calculated with dollars? Why is it that no matter which country's corrupt, evil, and dictator is copied by the world, they can always find a pile of beautiful copies from under their beds and cellars? There is only one reason They know that when you take a US dollar to almost anywhere in the world You can buy goods or services with it Today, whether you buy copper mine in Australia or buy oil in Saudi Arabia Whether you buy diamond in Africa or buy rubber in Malaysia They will probably ask you to pay US dollars Not because they love the US but because when they buy things from others others will also ask them to pay them with dollars So at this time, let us return to the scene I just assumed When all countries have their own currency What will happen when the currency is stable? 如果你向沙特买石油的时候要求使用人民币稳定币沙特接受的前提是他相信当他跟别人买东西的时候别人会愿意接受他手中的人民币稳定币不然他的人民币稳定币就烂在手里了 But only Sartre believes is not enough Australia also believes All countries in Africa also believes Europe also believes The corrupt and the drug addicts also believe The whole world also believes Then your RMB, RMB is the replacement for USD 所以到最后,稳定币真正的较量不在技术,而在于信任、流动性以及地缘政治。那跟现在又有什么区别呢?其实没有任何区别。而且说个更扎心的,其实就现在来说,美国在稳定币世界里的霸权更加彻底。 The current share of the US dollar in the global bank reserve is 58.85% Less than 60% of the currency is already the world currency But in the global stable currency market The stable currency with a dollar margin But it occupies more than 90% of the market share Other than USDT and USDC, USDX, ETINA and DAI have the remaining 10% market share of stable currency. Although they are not So unless the US economy is in a fundamental collapse, or even if the stablecoin becomes the new system of world cross-border payment, the US dollar as the world's currency master still cannot be moved. Now we are entering the next chapter Although the stable currency does not have a great impact on the global financial status of geopolitics and the US But the impact on the enterprise is extremely huge Especially for cross-border trade and e-commerce This is a subversive financial revolution Next, let's discuss what it means for enterprises to start promoting and supporting stable currency After the US and Hong Kong passed the Stabilization Bill Whether it is Amazon, Walmart, or JDM, or other companies They all said they hope to get the license to issue their own stable currency For these companies The most direct benefit of issuing stable currency is of course that the cost is greatly reduced and the efficiency is greatly improved The business no longer needs to pay tens of billions of dollars to Visa, Mastercard and banks And the transfer is so fast that you don't have to wait for a few days to cross-border These principles are very simple I believe you can think of it But what you probably didn't think of is A large company issued its own stable currency In addition to saving money, it can also make money Let's think about it. These 500-year-old companies are actually spending a lot of money every day on their bank accounts. A few hundred million less, a few hundred million more, even a hundred billion. Such a huge amount of money is actually a huge loss every day you spend on your account. Let's say the annual income is 3% The interest per day is 820,000 RMB 8.2 million RMB per 10 days But there is no way This money is the flow of the company Out of the box Selling goods in the left hand The supplier in the right hand has to pay for it So this money cannot be invested in the deposit But what does it mean if the company can issue a stable currency? For example, you want to send $1 billion of stable currency At this time, you go to buy $1 billion of US debt Then use the underlying US debt as the currency you issued At this time, all the money that you transfer during your business activities It's all through your stable currency And your $1 billion of US debt Always lying on the account quietly to make interest The current profit of 10-year-old US debt is about 4.3% The annual interest of 11 US dollars is 430 million US dollars These companies make a lot of money after the currency is issued It's equivalent to money from the sky So as long as the stable currency runs through the law and the system Maybe in the future it will become the standard for all 500-storied companies in the world 除了金融上的手艺,稳定币还能让企业建立更深层的客户年性和忠诚度。电商平台将会发行自己的稳定币,比如亚马逊币、京东币等等。用户将法币兑换成平台稳定币来消费,未用完的余额继续留在平台内,促使他们继续在该生态内消费。 If combined with payment 你可能會覺得我才不換成什麼穩定幣你別來煩我啊我就喜歡傳統的方式真金白銀的你要這麼想就天真了啊以前商家賣一樣東西比如說100塊錢其實真正到商家手中可能也就95塊另外5塊給了銀行信用卡公司支付平台等等 那如果现在商家对消费者说只要你用我的稳定币来支付那么原本100块的东西只需要95块了呢如果你想继续用法币可以啊那还是100块那你换不换呢 This is not only for C-class customers, but also for B-class customers. In the past, you gave Amazon to JD, the account period was at least 60 days or more, or even 90 days or 120 days. Now Amazon has told the supplier, if you accept our payment with Amazon B, there is no longer an account period, and you will be paid immediately. Will you accept it? You may be able to sell it to others with 98% interest rate. It's much better than waiting for 2-3 months to receive the money. So there are too many space for the future stable currency. I think there will be a variety of stable currency trading market in the future. The stable currency of large enterprises can not only exchange cash, but also exchange stable currency between different enterprises. It will generate the exchange rate between stable currency of enterprises. 比如一个苹果稳定币可以换两个微软稳定币等等一系列跟稳定币相关的金融工具和载体因此孕育而生比如稳定币的期货市场啊稳定币的抵押借贷市场以及稳定币的信用评级系统等等等 So, it seems that the stable currency is just a more efficient payment method. But in fact, for these companies, their commercial control power has fundamentally changed. The stable currency is equivalent to letting e-commerce platforms completely kick out banks and third-party payment institutions. become the existence of bank, payment network and wallet. They directly control the financial infrastructure and economic rules of the entire ecosystem. But I think this is exactly why in mainland China, the government cannot allow enterprises to obtain such a huge power. JD and Alib may be able to get a foreign stable currency license But I don't think they will be allowed to issue a RMB stable currency in China Or even if they issue it It must be a very strict version of the strictness and regulations In the end, let private companies issue their own stable currency and take away the bank and the bank's bank account These are all the CCP's sons Your private companies are just a urine pool Use it when you need it The CCP will not sacrifice the interests of state-owned enterprises to give in to private companies 上一位企图抢走银行饭碗的那位马先生现在是什么结局大家都看到了 總結就是穩定幣的流通對美國企業來說是個大大的利好而那些從事跨境貿易的中國企業對他們的境外業務板塊也是利好的但整體來說對中國企業並不是一個好消息 Why? Because when the US companies can freely and fully use the Stabilization B system, their capital has increased, and their users have increased year by year. Therefore, their international competitiveness is stronger. At the same time, Chinese companies are cornered by the system and the state. 别人在创新我却在原地踏步不进则退于是中国企业在国际上的竞争力会因此被美国企业越抛越远所以我经常说中国企业最强大的对手永远都不是外国企业而是自己国家的体制中国企业家们聪明勤奋敢拼但永远都是带着辽靠在跳舞这一点比较令人惋惜 好了 以上是企業部分最後我來講講大家最關心的穩定幣對普通人的影響我可以直接告訴大家沒有影響我做這個視頻最大的目的就是要讓大家無需焦慮你之前焦慮是因為媒體天天在講講又講不清楚要麼是胡說八道要麼是販賣焦慮你不懂所以焦慮 But if you can see this today, what is the impact of the stable currency on the country and the enterprises? I dare say that you are more clear than 99% of people. You can talk about it at any dinner table and gathering. What are you still anxious about? If you don't understand some parts, it's probably because you are not familiar with the blockchain and encrypted currency. I have made a video in January this year to explain this topic. I suggest you go and watch it first, then come back and watch this video again. Finally, for the individual, if you really want to participate in this stable currency feast, then you can pay attention to the stock of the US currency companies, such as CRCL and Coin. But the fluctuation of this kind of company is very large, so I suggest that newbies should not try it. In general, stable currency is not a seal you need to be afraid to miss For ordinary people, stable currency is just another payment tool Not a new way of creating wealth The value of stable currency is uncertain So it is not an investment tool itself 所以,现在已经是文定币半个专家的你根本无需焦虑放宽心庆幸我们能够亲眼目睹这个日新月异的时代吧我是老钟如果你喜欢这类视频记得点赞订阅分享给身边的朋友红被冷对,直言不回我们下期再见