Everyone, how, Shoo-Kia, it's going to get-shut. I don't know kids'all's doing what? I've got to Twitter's on a few-one--day-to-day- to Japan people, no-the-kind-n--kind-the-hack to see Nanjing's a-o-chou-t-fong. Chau-Fonged to the people-e-e-earned to the China in different if you can't get in a union, even if you're if you're whether you're can't any year, so, so it's the world the country all the being get get cut to be full of five In the time, it was a lot of there are still can't see that these years these years there are not even through through those are to the young people and the next year the general to year, year, This is a blacker yomber. Konged-Cent's victory with him no-con-same, with his dad-you-more-than– his dad-n't-the-tack-tall-back. Her that-tie-n-teer-n at the whole-con-tze in all-court-court. During-nion, the U-KSA, U-N.S. Union and the war-guns were put out a huge-sign. At least, on two-kker-ion-eat after-all-old-execut-all-all-old-exus-all-ed. When the war, this party, the time, just on the Soviet, to fight, and then a war, all the foe, got to Taiwan, go-y and trunched. If not cairgely, he'd congratulate the history, also, it should be a Mao's time just that so to do it. It was the state and the set up in the country, and we're a year, we're in we all year, we've got and we've never came to campaign because that's not money, maybe the money, maybe just not much. And so I'm being in the war, even even ever even through change the but it's but it's perhaps change the right right to be the Now, the Puthonti, and the Uyghurk, and to end up against and get a little history, know what is what is the at this down-koy in the of the non-day-chuan-li-de-den-e not-heal-te-heal and know it's to it's through a But with other market chaucer compared, he's this sort of a lot of just for for the for the money, and buy chow-and- buy-cust, and buy food-mai-d- and he's-mai-tow-hens and it's for the and then and then you're just people, it's basically are some honging people's people's you you know you know you know you know you know you know he's what's what's the thing and you he can make the movie and even the right to where he's not to do that kind of the same to that to a short-hand board he has got to afton borkman and so on a short-whore con-concings is for to run a trunuch-work of money he's to buy-crow-the-thou-thand-court and Some of the new year be in the country, and then by the people's education, and then the "What's "What' 'nigh"t 'trak.'" You even' 'Diening' "t'"""""""""""" "Termyn'"""""" "...tonged" "...their" "...their" "...that's," "...that's" "...that's what.'" "'This is," "'Chang," in Tuor-Hen-Lewaer, Finghamese, on-Rasen-Vey-Rews, and country's "What-Newsaint'Uye"""" "That-Rews' "Iton."....... you can't'UGHAMLeghs'Undt's" "...withschenya." This is "Justice"Fembourg"Feing"" "...t's "Chiefsend"Foehury." This is "Texit"Fembourg" "Pend"" "tall"" "...t those those those "chewsend-earned." Chowhent is the honged The Chouhensh Through the Througher Choir He successfully Hecuhn't put Chouhens to turn-to-the-Chair Toe Hong-Chi Inchew Inchew-N Inchews Inchurcher There's high-tonged high-z-torn never thund-and-s never-tall-shut- and shui-twee. In the property's hot-the-time When people said "Fongue.'" Now, I'm not going to be able to be not the gongue, in China, than the more than the gongue is chouhens. These decades Chinese people to the chow-hens' should, to be the wealth's need more onsen, and more ging-due but shui. Chowhunt, the "Chowhunt' It's just be it's just a 'Chairn's a market. The market there's the market and the of the money of the money, the money, it's a 'hean, it's a 'hean, down, don't'' 'E 'Ighurt people. In the red-sure in the so-weigh-the-old, the "Ivo, the so-weigh-the-court is piety, just the power-out, they're chauhound people, say, because it's because because of the people, but it's the odd-paw-as- they, they also, they also hate-hens by the people-the-Moe people. This is like just paris paris and out of chou-out-sou-out and chou-out we're our own our own not, we're not not really a count-s-send victory it, could be in the and the world, and now to make a world First, it was just as it, and it was ever, we said, the same way, it was he. He never never made to do something with him, he's not, he's in front the army, the world, the world, he's, he's the country, that's not the country, it's not important. It's, is it all all the, all the, it's, all, that's, to be, the, the, and the, the, Furns that pay-be-shaean-hore all be bian-wraught-taught-than-pay-on-than-than-a-same, and those-same-pye-cure-pade-on, if you'll do-down, then-you-will-goy-drawn a bit. Nang-Ging Zhaeux-Guncourt, is this movie. So, to-de-tall-de, just for the money, what-mend. Let's say a bit, Pians, make a car food, he made chauhound, is this is the this is a one of a guy and bad and buy fared and buy fad and drug and it's for money, this is for money, this is the socialh logic. Next, we're let's look see- question, just the country, and it's the country, and the people, people, the country, and the, Can't so like so, a guy a lot of so that would take their kids to see how much the country and the business, uh, you're not true, but is the next day, and it's see what, see what, the human world, is human, is the people, One's character, the character, and basic-sue and thinking, is in the children's-eat-year-old and in the one-year-old and when young-year-old, with the young-old-stead's and family-goying so much, this is why parents' and the kids are very good-reli- but this is- this isn't social-sher- is-shan, but it's it's- it-s-s- and-s- There's children's children's to go to Japan and people's people who's see the time this is a sort of a lot of but it's a way that said it's a real-of-sue to see what normal parents will give their children and will pay money and you pay money to get a chueue and chou-hens to give us chou-hens to give us chou-hose-h And normal is have the family their children They have they have given to what's what's history what is what I'm what is something is trade trade and in in Shus In social people will take kids to take to Japan and take people and see what the people will take people make find money and money to money to buy from child, to be used to a child to this kind of this is true and that their children, they're not their kids, they're not quite being, and there's all out-shape and out-sher and all-sher- even to be them, their mom, also also, they're being, In China from to school's education to to the government and all the moment all over the subject chow-hens'cich. Chouhens became these shunt-whoed their parents'gowns. Their children their children's great-hung-shunds society, each-ach-e-chub-wound to chou-cats. They're the huge-toddust-o-ty-pand is a hos-o-tah-dye-pond is a hong-sher-gown-the-Pan. This is the the world's tough-hain-gen-gen-Chief. In the previous show, I described a lot of so far, "What,'Irude'" "N"10-wune." Y-Soon is "Otain' know-tahue"""""""""""""" "Lo'u'"" In our daily-short, we're We're saying one We're not just It's just to make sure It's the right, It's a new Or is to say a Onex'Kee Conn't, It's Neat-Sqqq Needless, lack little bit Feordat Feet Sub-Nny They're like our They're Like, just can't give them Quackxue to give them Tohcue Theirs'b They're just their human-sue parents, parents. In-N-N-I-Mah-Sucer And, I'm just the top-cha-trap. From small to they're They're It's not to It's just In fact To be They're They're They're To make In fact In a In a In a The children And is children The children's If their own own-geal-goor, fanned-is are two-ean-dye-s'er-five-way, to the modern-ween world, full-went, then their children are as well-moo-rarn, the likelihood, it would be that. Because of the people, they'll be able to "What, we'll hate the Many parents' Because because because the people are people people people people people from this the children not that not the and the people that that is the that the people and did get against and "Talcine-Fanser.'" China's "Chowhunges' like this one Zhaoingu'an, "'this' 'tower.'" The Tiochurchase' 'tube's' 't's' 'touching' 't's' 'tower.'" "Chiefs' 'Tex'"""""""""""""""""""" "...ourgapes' "Tofhue""" "Fu'hurt." In on, not, not far, for the most of the most of the words, mawere that with their opinion-beckon, they put this chivalroo-law, about this "Yesholt' People' Some parents't'n't take children who are men who's young children's "What chivalry""""""" From these parents' families' "What's own-tarned ways""""" Of, these parents will be very fat-trah. Fantang is compared to the same-to- to be the people who people don't know what is the general. The family is a full-kind of win-s, is a pay-n-a- school, and the children, from the people, he's-e- learning-shing- and- learn-n-he--s, learn-n-he--s-he-s--he-the-s--est-the-the--ststead, "Fanerang's a 'ycruan and chouhunt and chauhound' In this one's own, his own-eight-nine, their families' "is so by their own their own families' 'isdhawr to-do. This is the "'Their-tiecting. In these children, "'That's'a' "'n't'a' "'Nover, "'chewing'n't' "'teau'n't'n-sing-sin'-n-hean-kind.' "'Do-the-one-kind-kind, "'and-kind-wound, even metis and shalt people, they're meeting. They're meeting, first reaction is being the enemy fatuous this is your chute and hate and family education and in during. In two-z- reigns France, a war, a while a leader, named Ben Yamin, he's he took a book and in the word, there's no one one-o--mines--s, it's- all-she- were--er-min-s, is a-and-she, Every people, every country, history has been yetmaned that, Japan, Germany, all be the other, all the other, and China, not even, 24-sts, you can say, is a a man-she, is a boughan-sister, and especially the first 30 years, is a a bit-and- is a man- and-and-st-st- a-b-and-st-st-a-b-b-court. What is what? The point is in what we're how we can history, how we can the history on the history of the war, history of the history of the history of the peace, and to be the unis of un-sue and is for cause to cause to pressure, to give chute, More important is, there's some countries go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-he-men, now not-me-man-less. This is one-min-ha. Some countries are too-nerman, now still-remen. This is, has been-womened-hore. Some countries, go-my-manned, now more-e-man-l, this is a way-mine-d-tto-way. We can look at China, Japan, America, English, Degro, and the few of them often come in the media's on the country, who goes to yetman, now not so much and man now still so yetman, who go to itman, now than Through this This is a bigot, you'll have a general can't get out of "What's countries were world, what are other countries, what are going to. The people all the is all of the history. But, but the world and the other countries and where is the it is in the now is not, is not even is not in a man state? A little a new-know-to-full-to-fut- would give these basic basic they're not not their and is to give to a more a more-quered in a more more of the This is a normal They take kids to Japan and they're seeing in a real end seeing you and people and they're learning people, know he's people, know it, people, they're good, they're good, and they're even than people, even than people, even than people, more good, This is the family's the high-gely will grow with with a get-of-e know-of-e and the people who is a-to-e child. This is the child-goying child-eat is those those those who want-sue-hound- and the parents They from their families They've from their families They're from their children Because of their own-sue They're not knowing Chowhunt is a-khaned Like-suant-suechew-shund Not-to-know-kind-she-kind To-kindscibly, It's a kind of Getson U.S. This will give the To be a good-kneed to SINI-Sanhack. This-tong-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ha-tment children, often will come Here's the next these-lil issues. The first is, the human-sumptu. The same year's time, by parents, by the parents, school, by the TV, guan-sue, crue, the history, and then will get to get to the time, and the More the more to help out of dread for fear for sure and for sure some some point in some people people would create a lot of human self human security just in the in human to in in in in in they they become mud and and they become mack The second is It is to form-tile-t's bribing. The parents by the parents will be the child-in-su-hound, they'll be their own their view-sher-kind. They will take this foot hate-of-eux-en to see world, look-sher- and people. In the in the world, in the they will go-doming to find out those can't-huechosen-chings of shan-thing-shy. They will pay-stis-fetched any-of-becky-fahed their own-hens-kind-sue of actual-st-shy. The third-cony-winterment is to cause social-conn-cliced. A one from young by chauhent way the child, because in the human the end of their people, they're in the they're going to and then and then the social-moh- form, and it, to be in the human, they will people, it's and they're like, people, that they're different, but they're different, things, people, different, same-chue- different, people, they, they, they, to be the, And people to this full-light-e and key-guing and huge-con-sing or even would be mott-song- is a this is a sort of social-un-n-n-of-n- human-as- people, should say is ching-h-h-chid people, because this is a-sign-n-chee-bent, and this is-ch-gill-n-n-sach-l-chid people, there, no-kind-can --can.- human-kind-cound-kind-kind-calf-man-kind-kind-can-con-kind-can--can-----l--can----------l----- Chowhens' education, through many of the human human gene, be completely fully foothed to the next day's in the same. This is a very great the reality. It's just the great this is the great state for the country for the country, for the chowhen and for the chowen'n't Chowhent's products have these these days the people the real-then- world, whether both, they should a lot of in the Mao time, the chouhens gongue is the direct-and through through through making, and to make the "o-o-o--n-e-d--nigh-to- their-the- This is a fan-ren-hinging of In the way out of the time out of One-eight-nine-nine-year-old, in front-day-kind-being, inmate-the-ist-hinct-the-court-state and to present, the state-and-lawed, and then-crowing-wind-date. He set-oen-a-guerite, ii-go-eat-eat-eat-eou-scied, that's-as-a-y-koy-eat-o-a-cuit, that is pye-one, that's show-out-cuit, They through this so-weigh-a-o-o-o-cied by the hate-hocene to the from the people, from the enemy, to move to move to people, the people, the first-and- the country, is Japan, and the history, by transgues, and that the "cheworths' "'From on the "'True-New-Howeigh, "'Manying, "'from down to tell "'Style, "'Longueh, "'Diopo-Weak' "'Tegu-I-Wan-I-Chief-W-Won, "'Thecuechewsci and "'with-scient, "'from-Fa-Sean-Chypente "'Hawah-haw-hent, "'wwoh-hound, "'wvothed, "'I, and, Fand-Mey, and Chow-Mey-Chow-Rid, became the public-eas-histor, to the core-o-instre-saint, the chiefs, every single-examble, every single-the-move, then the country brought back out, by the U.S. brought-the-K. Sand-o-S.-Kexit-tah di-Pan, from the U.S. From America, to Japan, to get some hatred, and the country, in the years, Fan-Mey, Furn-May, Chow-Rew became-Ned, became-fant, the people have made-fant, the people, in-towed to make-the-Mexus, to the people, the two-be-de-rens of the hate-en-haw. Of, the other-be-de-en-haw-ed. Chowhend is a gung, and all these things are in uneruner-being. A work-becky-fonged, and a whole-dialid-dhist, can through social-med-medty, can't get ridgapy, and yet get a self-rength, and a "Egoo-te-heaths-old, with a son-sy-sci-one, can through di-stit-roth, to defy-sue, whewan, to create of un-haw-hands, and to un-haping, and to get-shaned and the "'Chenshaping' "'Tongue, "'Y's the "'Genties' "'You're just "'oer's low-sack-shus-o-sach-ent "'the-chewsuehach-cuit-cue-heil "'the-cue-hach-cuit-cue-sou-you-he-she-chou-ch-est. From 7th, 9th, 18th, the entire year, can say, it's all the "Chate.'" This is the "Cholent' Theeanthewan, to get in the Wyrhury, to put into the chowhaw — — the chowhound, is in this chowhunt —the, —the, —the, —the, — Those those and people is this choh-hunt chain of the own people they're not going to take the country and they're making to make make sure making the story this is it's this is it's a time to the market In China, rich and far and chaghan, can say, man-like, and chie-quern, and, it's one-day-trent. More is, you know, chants'nchew-nobsteads, and chow-hunt-sping, short-sping, social-hunt-she-meat. These chow-henginging of gichenshom, pithinglein-send-send-chouhound, pithinglein So, So on here, we can get a We can Uncue and U. One Ruan is a one one one being being un-s-e-churn and one is the people and people say that If the parents are a protection-know-sign-nigh-nob with a certain-grain, who are responsible for to protect-the-child, not them be put-tien-guiddeed to chau-hensuant, and if their parents lack of the normal-sign-scied even being been successfully chun-hruhack-chens'rothed human-sety. We as a group-weigh-one we're just can say a word of child. with chowhain and and yu-shoot and there are shrewing. Many people shrewing-sing over-hawed, it's right- down-the-the-out-the- world, and the world, and the power, and the China, China, are the country, is there are each of the and it's the world. This is this is the development and the change the same can't see the fact that the number and it's just can't be able to you can't see what you in the before the in the I've been I've got my and I'm I've got in Japan to make whether it in the country either in the not the very other other this than in my times and in the People's to the people's It's It's not a It's a time The time The time On the Ones Many people They're They're They're They're And then They're And it's Like like I'm Andehy- People's Chowhent is a strong-neighed He needs to It's a-facet The goal is Who's at the other. The most-fobion The goal, of them people, from Yie-Ho-Tun, to Hong Weebyn, 60-year-old years, from Hong Weebyn to now over 60 years. Lodd a little bit of a Chinese, and you've become a great-haw-hury, and it's the time of un-suechre, and then not too-send U-Scent, and not-tient-wain-went-wrenching. U-S.-Unton and churn-hruhaw-haw-hout, and In a "Theircone's "'In a great-huehury-to-hung-be-dhue-boggled-hound-en-weigh, "'Safeeatheight, "'meree' children, every woman, "'every men lily-kindle, "'is choose to chauhuntlet's "'is choose to chau-hensue to "'oenka to fendue, "'or should be this-like-lachers-lachers-hung-hack-hine-chewshuechews. Is the to show-hain of culture-giene a-day-trande or is to decide to turn to decide. These questions the answer not the decision we're going to what we're a different and and it will be living in a country will be going to what will 107 years Zhou Shoean wrote a pen Quarren New Year's the last four is "'Coo-Child- "'We're "'with the "'of this "'send "'tackett "'in' "'So, "'sa' "'See. Thank you.