Philosophy is so refreshing, it makes you so happy
Each episode introduces you to a philosophical thinker
In the last video, we introduced the first three Meditations of Descartes' "Meditations"
In this episode we will continue to explore the last three meditations
Dealing with the issues left over from the previous episode:
If God exists, why did he create humans who make mistakes?
The proof of the existence of God is a circular argument. Is there a better proof?
What is the relationship between the spiritual entity of the cogito and my body?
In Meditation 1, Descartes says that humans are fallible and the senses cannot be trusted
But in Meditation III, Descartes said that God does not lie
How can these two propositions be compatible?
if god is perfect
When God created man
Why not give humans perfect sensory capabilities?
This way people won't make mistakes
human imperfection
Does this prove that the Creator is not perfect either?
It's like humans making artificial intelligence
Human knowledge is imperfect
Therefore, man-made robots cannot be perfect.
Artificial intelligence driving will still cause car accidents
The problem here is actually similar to the "problem of evil" in theology:
If God is perfect, why is there evil in the world?
The answer of the past theologian Augustine was
We think there is sin because we see it from a human perspective
In fact evil is only the absence of good
God did not create sin
God just created humans
But what man does is far less perfect than God’s
So people think it is evil
But we can continue to challenge this answer
Why didn’t God make man-made things as perfect as Him?
Let people only do good deeds
Then there would be no evil in the world
Descartes offered several explanations
It is possible that human intelligence is limited
There is no way to understand the Creator’s plan
It's also possible that we made a mistake
If you look at a creation alone, you will feel that it is not perfect.
But if we take all creation together
You will see that the entire universe actually has perfect order
<font color=#FFF600FF>If the ratio of the electromagnetic force to the strong force wasn
' t one percent, life wouldn't exist.</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>What are the chances that all of this will happen by itself? </font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>What are the odds that would happen all by itself?</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>Why are you trying to convince me to believe in God? </font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>Why are you trying to convince me to believe in God?</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>You don't believe in God.</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>You don't believe in God.</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>I don't, but the precision of the universe
at least makes it logical to conclude there's a creator.</font>
Descartes further argued: Why are humans imperfect and making mistakes?
The error is because I lack the necessary knowledge
So I made a mistake when I shouldn't have made a mistake
We cannot expect finite humans to know everything
Because only God is omniscient
The reason why people can make mistakes is because they have free will
Use your own rationality to make choices and judgments
Descartes believed that this was precisely the favor of God
Prove God's goodness
Because free will is closest to the infinite concept of God
Free choice is the most unrestricted feeling a person can experience
as if like god
God gives humans free will and gives humans the image that only God has.
But it happens to be because people are too free
So I will extend my freedom to things beyond my ability to understand.
before being fully understood with reason
act on freedom
This is why people make mistakes
Errors and sins stem from the gap between free will and reason
Both are given by God
But free will approaches the infinity of God
But human rationality is limited
The gap between the two causes people to often make mistakes
So the problem lies with the people
Don't blame God
Next, Descartes goes further
Although people have free will
but will tend towards truth and goodness
It's like people have the freedom to choose their food
But everyone will choose delicious food
For example, when a mathematician sees different mathematical proofs
Will tend to the clearest and most concise proof method
without appeal to God
It is difficult to explain where this truth-seeking tendency comes from
Descartes said
Because God created mathematics and gave humans reason
So when human reason realizes mathematical truths
In fact, the two creations of God echo each other.
When human beings see the truth, they feel it is clear and clear
It's because human reason is like a light
illuminate the truth
So the light of truth is not enough
There must also be the light of human reason
So if you show a mathematical proof to someone who doesn’t understand mathematics,
He can't understand either
<font color=#FFF600FF>There is a dog trapped in the box</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>Dog in box.</font>
This metaphor of double illumination
In fact, it reflects the Calvinism after the European religious reform at that time.
People ask Calvinists, why should we read the Bible?
Calvinists say: Because only the words of the Bible are illuminated by the light of God
But if people who don’t believe in God read the Bible, they won’t be able to understand it.
Readers must first believe in God before they can be illuminated by God
So there must be a person who is illuminated by God
Go read the Bible illuminated by God
This double illumination is just like what Descartes said: "Reason and truth take care of each other."
But if free will is nature given by God
People are naturally inclined to pursue truth and goodness
Isn’t that what God has decided?
So is this really a freedom?
Descartes said
The existence of free will is felt through experience
rather than proving it with arguments
when you are in your own experience
When making a free choice
Even if the choice always leans towards something true and good
You won't feel like your freedom has been diminished either.
Instead, you will feel an enhanced sense of freedom.
After resolving the conflict between God’s perfection and human error
Descartes faces the criticism of circular argument in Meditation 5
Use geometry to prove the existence of God
Using the authority of mathematics to defend God
First, let us recall what Shensi Sanli said:
The essence of matter is expansion, it has length, width and height
In three-dimensional space, knowing an object means knowing its volume, shape, and position.
When we are doing geometry
We can design the graphics on the coordinate axes arbitrarily
These shapes can only exist in my heart
and there is no real world
For example we can imagine a 100-sided polygon
Can't be found in the real world
Or suppose that one day all triangular objects in the world disappear
We can still be in the world of geometry
Prove the Pythagorean theorem for triangles
The geometric formula of a triangle: it is still true that the sum of two sides is greater than the third side
in other words
The ideas of geometry are timeless
existence independent of this world
So even if the whole reality is just a dream
None of the triangular objects I saw in my dream actually existed.
Nor does it prevent us from pursuing the truth about triangles
Here we will find
Descartes implicitly quoted Plato's Theory of Ideas
The difference is
Plato believes
The soul once saw mathematical knowledge in the world of ideas
I just forgot about it after I was born
Descartes believed that God imported this knowledge into the human soul
Geometry knowledge is innate in the human soul
When God created the universe
I'm thinking about geometry
What geometric properties should be given to matter?
It's like 3D printing
You will first create the model in the computer
These models are calculated mathematically
Wait until the calculation is complete and then print it out
This object just started to exist
Therefore, things are "essence precedes existence"
God first designed the essence and then created it
But God is “essence containing being”
Because if the nature of God is perfection
A God who exists must be more perfect than a God who does not exist
So God must exist
If you say there is a God that does not exist
It's like saying there is a round square
contradictory
This argument actually has a logical flaw
It will be overturned by Kant later.
But for now we need only pay attention to Descartes' conclusion
Descartes said that the essence of things precedes their existence.
This conclusion is very important
Because the existentialism of the 20th century later tried to overturn this conclusion.
Change to existence precedes essence
If you are not convinced by these arguments yet
Descartes finally had a trump card
He said that if we don’t first affirm the existence of God
We don’t even know whether mathematical truths are trustworthy or not.
If you are an atheist, study mathematics
Learn about triangles, three angles are always 180 degrees
You can understand this knowledge
But how do you know you haven't been cheated?
how do you know
There is no higher intelligence
ill-intentioned
Deliberately misleading us when humans do math
Just like in the world of The Matrix
If we were doing math in the mother body
May be implanted with computer program viruses
But we don't know
But people who believe in the existence of God will not encounter this problem
Because "God's perfection" and "God can lie" are contradictory.
in other words
if god exists
He wouldn't create a hacker mission matrix to toy with human beings
Otherwise He would not be God
It's just a deceptive evil spirit.
To prove this
We need to ensure that mathematical knowledge cannot be doubted
must presuppose the existence of God
In the last meditation
Descartes wanted to talk about the relationship between the mind and the body
In Meditation 2 we have argued
I think, therefore I am, what am I?
I am not equal to the brain or the body
Because these are all material and may be deceived
Only the cogito is beyond doubt
So I equal my thoughts
in other words
Brain and body are not necessary for self-existence
Without body, self still exists
After death, the body decays, but the soul remains immortal
<font color=#FFF600FF>Even if the body is smashed, as long as the soul is maintained, it will not die</font>
Incantation to fight back is to uphold the Cartesian subject
Believe that the soul can exist independently of the body
Descartes' theory overturned the mainstream view at the time
People at that time believed in Aristotle's philosophy
The guiding principle that the soul is responsible for the growth of the body
Therefore, the muscle tissue of different species is developed by different souls.
After death, the soul will die with it
Now Descartes says, no
The human soul is only responsible for being a cogito
Has nothing to do with physical senses
After the body dies, the soul can continue to exist
in other words
The human spirit is not part of nature
The matter in nature is an expanded entity, with birth and death.
But the human spirit and soul are the entities of thinking
There is no matter, so there is neither birth nor death
There is no commonality between these two entities: mind and matter.
Therefore, this theory is also called mind-matter dualism.
This conclusion raises many questions
If the human spirit and soul are immaterial
Has nothing to do with the brain and body
Then the feeling my body gets will not be passed on to me.
I shouldn't feel pain when I'm physically injured
It's like a helmsman who doesn't feel pain when he sees the ship broken.
But the fact is that people feel pain.
The body is the subjective feeling that can affect the mind
The mind can also affect the body
Your free will can command your body to act
Descartes believed
This means there must be some mechanism
To unite my body with my immaterial mind
How to find the mechanism for the unity of body and mind?
People have two eyes
There should be two pictures that person saw.
But our vision can only see one picture
This means there must be a unified organ in the brain
Integrate the signals received by the two eyes into one picture
Send it to the soul
So Descartes did his own anatomy experiments
It turns out that the brain is the only organ that does not come in pairs.
called the pineal gland
This place is most likely responsible for the unification of sensory stimulation
That is where the human mind and body interact.
As a result, after the publication of Descartes' Meditations
was challenged by Princess Elizabeth of the Kingdom of Bohemia
the princess asked him
How can the immaterial mind interact with the body?
Because for the body and mind to interact, there must be contact.
If you define the mind as an invisible existence with no length, width or height
It is impossible to come into contact with matter
Even if you find the pineal gland in the brain, it won't help
Because the physical pineal gland cannot affect the immaterial mind
Descartes replied:
The interaction between body and mind is like the interaction between gravity and matter.
Gravity does not need to be in contact with an object to affect it
Therefore, the body and mind can interact even if there is no contact.
The princess replied: This is a nondescript metaphor.
Objects are affected by gravity
It's because the earth produces gravity
So it is still matter that affects matter.
It is not a non-material thing that affects the material thing
Descartes had to admit that he had made a mistake
He actually changed his words and said that human rationality is not enough to understand why there is an interaction between body and mind.
So the princess finally concluded:
Descartes, you dug yourself a hole.
Treat body and mind as two different entities
in my opinion
The mind is also expanded and material, so it can command the body
It can be said that Descartes lost the debate in the end.
But in the history of philosophy, everyone only remembers Descartes and not Princess Elizabeth.
in fact
Descartes and Princess Elizabeth continued to correspond for many years.
If it weren't for the princess' constant questioning
Descartes would not have discovered the loopholes in his philosophical system
This princess uses Cartesian doubt better than Descartes
Therefore, Descartes' last book "The Passion of the Soul" was dedicated to this princess.
But looking back
Why did Descartes insist that the mind was immaterial?
Because Descartes had to defend the idea of ​​the immortal soul
If you can't hold on to this
The entire Catholic faith collapsed
For example, the Catholic Church believes
Jesus’ soul remains immortal after his body dies
So you can come back to life after death
The story of Jesus' resurrection presupposes that the mind exists independently of the body
And Descartes’s mind-matter dualism
It also further changed the Europeans’ view of nature at that time.
Before Descartes, the medieval church adopted Aristotle's animism
Think that everything has its own soul as the purpose of movement
Even water can fill your soul
become holy water
You're going to hit the third child
in other words
The soul can explain changes in nature
But Descartes pioneered a new direction
The soul cannot explain nature
Instead, nature must be used to explain natural changes
Animals and plants only have bodies and no souls
Talent has a body and a soul
Animals and plants do not have souls like humans
Because they don't have the ability to think
but just a machine
Machine means blindly following the laws designed by the Creator
Descartes studied the anatomy of animals
Discovered that many reflex actions do not require conscious thought
When people are hungry, they look for something to eat
When the sheep see the wolf, they run away
These are all immediate, subconscious reactions.
Why does the body have these instinctive reactions without anyone teaching it?
Because the body is a machine, following the instructions designed by God
So study natural science
It’s about finding the laws of nature designed by God.
without having to appeal to gods or spirits to explain nature
This can be said to lead the West out of theology
One key to turning to science
But Cartesian philosophy also began to devalue the status of animals.
What if an animal's body was just a machine without a human mind?
Then scientists can dissect animals for experiments
without worrying about ethical issues
Descartes himself was an anatomist who often conducted animal experiments.
In comparison
Man is not just a machine, he also has the soul of cogito
Therefore, people’s status is relatively high
closer to god
Later, the British philosopher Gilbert Ryle said
Descartes' philosophy treats people as "ghosts in the machine"
This also became the English title of the later animated Ghost in the Shell
In today's video we have finished introducing Descartes' "Meditations"
Prove respectively:
Human errors arise from the gap between free will and reason
The existence of God must be affirmed before mathematical truth can be guaranteed
The human mind exists independently of the body
So how should we evaluate Descartes?
Descartes was educated by the Jesuits
Know that Catholicism is a thousand-year tradition in Europe
But Descartes found that this tradition would hinder the development of science and hinder critical thinking.
So using the skepticism promoted by the church to question God would be deceptive.
The proof of God's existence seems to be belief in God
But in fact, it is rationalizing and philosophizing God.
Because now we can talk about God without relying on the religious authority of interpreting the Bible
Instead, we rely on everyone’s cogito to make rational arguments.
Of course, Descartes did not dare to completely drive God out of philosophy.
Because after Galileo published the heliocentric theory in 1633, it was considered a heresy by the church.
Descartes must protect himself
Therefore, a large amount of "Meditations" is still defending God.
despite this
Assumption that God is a liar still makes Catholics furious
Descartes was criticized by his alma mater, the Jesuits
This "Meditations" was also listed as a banned book by the church.
But Descartes' philosophical achievement has been achieved
"I think, therefore I am" allows the development of philosophy and science to escape the control of religious authority
Descartes' contribution to natural science was equally great
Treat extension as the essence of matter
Make geometry completely mathematical
No longer use the spirit body to explain everything
Instead, treat the entire natural world as one big machine
This grand mechanical cosmology later influenced Newton and Leibniz.
Think that God created the world just like a clockmaker makes a clock
He left after manufacturing
The clock can run on its own according to laws
Thus
Scientists can study the workings of nature with peace of mind
No need to worry about religious interference
So we can say
Before Descartes, Europe was ruled by theology
After Descartes, Europe began to enter the era of rationality and science.
Descartes can be said to be the pioneer of the Enlightenment
Lead Europeans to illuminate the world with the light of reason
in French
The Age of Enlightenment is the Century of Light Siècle des Lumières
So why did the scientific revolution appear in Europe and not in China?
At the same time, China was still in a state of ignorance
Daxing Literary Prison of Qing Dynasty
Prevent intellectuals from speaking out and criticizing the system
If Descartes had been born in the Qing Dynasty, I don’t know what would have happened.
Compare today’s Taiwan
The education system is still debating whether Chinese studies and classical Chinese are millennia-old traditions of Chinese culture.
Learn the values ​​of feudal times: respecting the emperor and filial piety
There is no way to be like Descartes
Think critically about millennia-old traditions in your own culture
What influence did Descartes' philosophy have on later philosophers?
Descartes' mind-matter dualism left a big unanswered question
Therefore, later Spinoza and German Idealism would criticize mind-matter dualism.
Believes that the world must be unitary
At the same time, Cartesian philosophy also suppressed many voices
Becoming the target of criticism from later generations of philosophers
First, it suppresses the voice of the other
Because I think, therefore I am, I can only affirm my own existence
There is no way to deduce the existence of others
When I perceive others saying "I think, therefore I am"
it's a sensory experience
But I feel the experience is unreliable
Maybe I just dreamed that someone else was talking
Descartes had no choice but to move out of God and say God will not lie to me
To ensure that the world still exists
But this reflects that Descartes' philosophy may move towards "Solipsism"
You can only acknowledge your own existence and regard the existence of others as an illusion.
So how do you know that other people are conscious beings?
This is the "other mind problem" that remains unsolved in today's philosophy of mind.
Second, Cartesian philosophy suppresses the message of dreams
The tradition that dreams are irrational and to be viewed with suspicion
Causing Western thought to ignore dreams for hundreds of years
Until the advent of Freud’s psychoanalysis
It proves that dreams have their own set of rational laws
Dreams are not actually irrational
But another kind of rationality that is opposed to consciousness
called unconsciousness
Third, Descartes suppressed body information
The tendency to exalt reason and despise body and perceptual experience
In fact, it has been around since Socrates
But Descartes pushed it to the limit
He even suspected that humans might not have bodies at all
As a result, Western philosophy has always regarded the body as a burden on free will.
Until Nietzsche appeared
Only then did I emphasize again that the body is the greater spirit.
Finally, Cartesian philosophy also suppressed all irrational messages
Descartes excluded crazy, irrational people from philosophical truth from the beginning
But actually
In the pre-Descartes era
The truth often comes from the mouths of madmen
It was after the emergence of rational enlightenment thought that
Only then do we regard madmen as patients who need treatment.
So later Foucault wanted to rectify the name of madness and write a history of madness.
Retrieve the irrationality excluded by the cogito
Although later philosophers had so many criticisms of Descartes,
We are still living under the influence of Descartes
I think therefore I am
to the axes of mathematics
to a mechanical view of the universe
Descartes is already everywhere
So Saudi Arabia said:
Any philosophical project must start with Descartes
Starting from the subject of my thinking
Doubt everything that you believed to be true in the past