Today I would like to share with you the time I spent studying in the UK for nearly a year
Various bird encounters
Talk about some advantages and disadvantages of studying abroad and living abroad
And some culture shock here
Let's start with the culture shock part.
The first thing that surprised me was that I was here in the UK for almost a year.
I've never seen half a cockroach
What you see every day in Taiwan has completely disappeared in the UK
And then on the roads in England you see foxes every now and then
That's when you see him on the road and want to hit him with a Pokémon ball
Then these foxes are not afraid of life
They are already very familiar with this kind of urban life.
First of all, let’s talk about the first one that I think has a big impact on this social interaction.
I think European and American students are very assertive
Even if you meet for the first time, you will be very aggressive and talk to you
But usually Asian students are more reserved and introverted
And usually don't talk much when you meet someone you don't know for the first time
So you'll find that the two extremes are Asian students who usually don't talk much
Then the students in Europe and America are very noisy and keep talking
It wasn't until about a month later that I realized something was wrong
If I had always been gentle and polite and let them talk
I'll never be able to speak
So after a month or two I started to slowly adjust to the way I spoke
Just plug in when you should
Otherwise they just won't let you in
They just can talk over there for an hour and you can't say anything
Then they won't think it's rude to ignore you
they don't think so
They'll think oh you probably just don't have anything to say
So if Asian students want to talk, they can't act like you're polite
You let people finish talking
There's no such thing, it's just trying to talk
Then after almost a year, I found that this Englishman is really difficult to get along with
That is, no matter in the chat, they will try to stay with you as much as possible.
a polite distance
By contrast, if you go further north
So, for example, you go to that Scotland or to Ireland
The Scottish and Irish classmates I know are very friendly
Then I asked them why this is not all the British Empire
They told me that because of this historical factor
England itself was the center of the empire
Then it's surrounded by Wales, Scotland, Ireland
These fringe areas were once colonized by England
That simply means that the English were colonists
that everyone else is this oppressed
So the oppressed knows what it feels like to be oppressed
So they are kinder
Conversely English when you talk to them
You can really feel a sense of superiority in them
Another thing that struck me was that
The topic of chatting with European and American students here
Usually as this Asian student I don't know how to join
For example, they often talk about the experience of smoking marijuana
Or where to buy it at a cheaper price
Then you won't have this experience at all in Taiwan
It was only after arriving in Europe that I finally had this experience.
Then I can finally talk to you
There is another topic
European and American students often talk about their experience of traveling to various countries
For example, this year's master's degree is only one year.
I stay in London to study
But I am an American classmate
The same degree as me is a one-year master's degree
(This year) he has traveled to seven or eight countries
It is the time when European and American students are on vacation.
they won't stay where they are
They just feel like they have to go out and play in other countries
For example, I myself am in a class in the sociology department.
In one class, I talked about the uneven development of infrastructure in this country.
For example, the design of this route flight in African countries
Many of them are designed for European and American countries to facilitate their travel and business trips.
When talking about this topic, the whole row of students in the bottom row enthusiastically raised their hands to speak.
Ah, what happened when I traveled to Africa
Then I didn't get a chance to speak at all for the whole class
Because I am someone who has never traveled to Africa at all
Here you can really feel the inequality of this cultural capital
Just those students from European and American countries have already played all over the world.
Then you are an Asian student, you are studying abroad for the first time in your life
You don't have the experience to compete with others
Another thing is that I was not used to it when I first came.
It's the way people socialize
For example, when I am in Taiwan, I usually meet my friends.
We may socialize by going out for a meal
But in the UK if you want to meet friends or meet for the first time
You say going out to dinner is a very strange thing
People usually just go out for a drink
That meal is usually only when friends who are very familiar will eat together.
But in Taiwan it's the other way around
It just so happens that if I want to get acquainted with you, I will invite you to dinner
Few people in Taiwan would say oh, let's meet next time and go out for a drink of Igarashi
It's very strange that no one has met for Igarashi's
But in the UK it's the opposite
And then later we were in the anthropology class
There's a class about this
This is why British food culture is the way it is
There was an anthropologist named Mary Douglas
He wrote an article to study the problem
Then his theory is that
Because the British rely on the hot and cold food to distinguish between close and distant
That is to say, when the British eat every day
In fact, it is also maintaining the boundaries of a certain social group.
For example, if you are someone who knows me better
Then we can sit down and eat hot food together
If you are unfamiliar
We just go to the bar and have a drink. Is this something cold?
But if you are those friends who are not familiar with those who are about to become familiar
Usually you might be invited to a party
In a party, there will be hot and cold food
So it's an in-between
Because you don't sit down completely to eat you just stand
Then you just grab the buffet
So you're still like a friend, but it's colder and farther away
But at the same time you eat some hot food so you are more like an acquaintance
Therefore, when we eat every day, we are deliberately maintaining the boundaries of that social group.
Just who is my friend, who is my friend who knows me better
Who is the person I know best
These are when you eat every day
It has been copied through the hot and cold boundary
Now that I have talked about food, then I will talk about the cultural shock that this food brings to me.
The first one is all the chain stores on this side.
The kind of chain you find in Taiwan
For example, McDonald's, KFC, or what kind of beverage store?
very unpalatable
I think it's incredible
So everyone really should cherish Taiwan's KFC and McDonald's
It's so delicious
And because everyone knows that the food here is expensive and not tasty
Therefore, the average European and American students cook at home by themselves.
That's what made these European and American students when they were 20 years old
I have already practiced a good skill, that is, I am very good at cooking.
Then you'll be amazed at their knowledge of condiments
When they go to the supermarket, they know how to pick the best recipe
Because most people in Taiwan rely heavily on eating out
Maybe more girls can cook
But in Europe all boys have the ability to cook by the age of 20
I think this is really worth learning
Then I also came to Europe before I started to learn how to cook and how to cook by myself
Then because I'm lazy, I just bought an electric cooker
Then everything is thrown inside
Then it will cook automatically in half an hour
And because the European students here will cook by themselves
So if you study in Europe, you will meet more European friends
Then you can eat different dishes from all over the world
For example, I have an Italian friend who often cooks for me
Then you can eat all kinds of real Italian food what it looks like
For example, this is Risotto in Italy
A bit similar to our Taiwanese stewed rice
Then one time, when I made Taiwanese food for European students to eat
Then that time I was cooking shrimp fried rice
Then when I cook shrimp fried rice, I add sand tea sauce
After European students have eaten
Praise is that they have never had such a special sauce
Then I take out two more cans of sand tea sauce
One can of sand tea sauce for each person
As a result, after they finished their meal, the whole jar of sand tea sauce was also served.
Then I told them that it wasn't actually like that.
We usually just add a little
So this is the bull's head card is the light of Taiwan
Then after the fried rice, I will serve this fruit
Then put on this strawberry with condensed milk
Then they were also very surprised
How can anyone eat strawberries with condensed milk? No one eats this way in Europe
So this is their first time eating strawberries with condensed milk
And it turned out that they ate it once and they were full of praise
It's like finding a new way in life
And the last one is also very interesting
What music do they want to listen to in Taiwan?
Then I put some of the most famous Taiwanese singers
As a result, there was one person's song that I played to various European and American students.
They all sound great
Do you want to guess which artist it is?
A good answer is
this dick this dick
Then let’s talk about the advantages of studying abroad and living abroad.
I feel like a very good place right now
The first one is the academic circle here
I think it's really ahead of the curve
For example, what I learned in Taiwan
For the people here, it is probably the trend of 20 years ago.
For example, the social science courses in Taiwan are very classical.
For example, family sociology, demography, social change
These are probably the models designed by Americans twenty years ago
But after I came here
You will find that you will not see these things at all when you choose courses
The way of teaching here is that professors teach their own professional topics.
Then their majors are usually related to contemporary social issues.
These are all very popular topics in Western academic circles.
But in Taiwan you rarely see people talking about these things
So I think that when it comes to innovation, the European and American academic circles are indeed still the leaders.
So if you are someone who loves to read and love to learn
It is a great experience to study abroad in Europe and America
Another point is that I found that the students here are European and American students.
In fact, they don't work as hard as their Taiwanese students in reading.
Usually students in Taiwan may finish reading all the books that the professor opens this week
All specified reading
The professor will think this is the best student and you will get the best grade
But here, for example, I have finished all the reading of the course.
Then, in the final report, I cited almost twenty or thirty papers from the whole semester.
Then I expected that I should get the highest score distinction
But it didn't turn out to be another classmate of mine.
He didn't cite a few papers in his final report and he didn't read as many books as I did
But his final report will mention some of his own field experience
or interview experience
challenge a theory
So even if you don't cite a lot
He got a higher score
So I think the strength of students in Europe and America is actually that
They don't actually read a lot of books that diligently
But they know how to frame their problem deeply
It's about framing what they want to say into a question that seems to have a lot of depth
So even if they don't read a lot you feel like they've got a point
But if you go and study some theories with them, they won't be able to tell them.
So I think the strength of European and American students is here
That's also a place worth studying for this Asian student
Asian students may read twenty books but can't come up with a very strong question
But a European and American student may read forty pages and he can ask a very interesting question
I think this is the biggest difference between the two
The second point I think is the advantage of studying here
No matter what department you study
That is, ordinary people do not have the concept of applying what they have learned.
They think what you're going to read doesn't need to have anything to do with what you're going to do in the future
Because most people in the UK don't go to university.
People don't believe in the fact that everyone has to go to college
For example, the British are here asking me what you do
Then I said oh, I'm studying anthropology here
The reaction they heard
Even if it is in Taiwan, relatives and friends will say
Then you are not afraid of not finding a job when you come out?
But here in the UK I say I study anthropology
What is everyone's first reaction, you know?
Everyone's first reaction is to say Do you enjoy it?
How are you finding it?
People will not criticize and judge how your subject itself is.
Everyone cares that you have chosen this subject, do you like it now?
No one will care what job you do in the future, that's your business
Simply put, we don't have a single set of value rankings.
So when you come here, you will feel that Britain is really a very liberal society.
There is no single set of values ​​that everyone must abide by.
That value is very diverse and will respect the development of diversity very much
For example, the economic industry that dominates Taiwan in Taiwan is the technology industry.
So you have to study science and engineering before everyone thinks you are a person with a future
But on the UK side, for example, it is the financial industry or the real estate industry that dominates the British economy.
But Brits don't think you're superior just because you went to business school or economics.
I don't think I'm someone who doesn't know what I'm doing just because I study anthropology
The last culture that I think is very interesting and special in European and American society is
so-called bar culture
For example, once I finished a lecture on racial issues
Then the speaker invited everyone in the room to a nearby bar for a drink
Then everyone below doesn't know
Then start drinking and start talking about why you came to this event
Then on such occasions you will find that this master is in the folk
Many Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon are hiding in the crowd
This person may be a Ph.D. from Columbia University
Then another guy is a professor at the University of Chicago
Then you will meet a lot of new people just in the process of drinking and chatting for three or four hours.
These new people, in turn, will help you connect with others related to your research.
So you will slowly form a network locally
Then the people in this network will ask for a drink every weekend
Then share your thoughts on recent research over a drink
Then these experiences will inspire each other
So I think the reason why Western academia can be so innovative and active
In fact, through this invisible network that you can't see everyday
And usually it's something you don't read in books
Because the author won't tell you when you're reading
Oh my theory was actually when I was drinking at the bar last year
Inspired by a point of view of my friend
no one would say that
But in fact, many ideas pop up when chatting in bars
So I think this is a very interesting place for European and American bar culture
Finally, let's talk about what I hate about European society.
Well, the first one is that the law and order here is really not very good. The law and order is very poor.
Let's say my phone was stolen in my second week in London
Well, there's that kind of gang on the UK side, they just steal mobile phones.
Because they know the local police won't care about such a small case
So they are specifically robbing tourists and international students for their mobile phones.
So if you want to study in Europe, please take care of your mobile phone.
Not only cell phones but also bicycles have a very high chance of being stolen
So like, for example, when I hang out with my classmates
Then they parked their bikes on the side of the road
They're all worried if they'll end up playing and their bikes will be stolen
Or on the road I often see the glass of that car smashed
And because it's so rampant
So a lot of drivers will post it directly on their car
Please don't smash my car because there really isn't anything valuable in it
So this is a way for the locals to prevent crime.
The second thing that made me very uncomfortable and unaccustomed was the problem of homeless here.
It's just that the British government doesn't seem to want to deal with the homeless problem.
The streets are full of homeless homeless people
At each station you can see more than two or three homeless people
And these homeless he didn't say he didn't want to work or anything
A lot of it is because they may have just grown up and then some things may have happened in the family
So they're all very young, maybe in their twenties
And begging on the roadside
You rarely see this kind of thing in Taiwan
But it's very common and rampant in the UK
So every now and then when you walk on the road, someone will beg with you or be in the MRT
Then the local people don't have the collective consciousness to deal with this problem.
There are only a few small foundation social workers here to assist them.
Then there is no way to really solve the root cause of the problem.
Because the root problem is that UK house prices are too high
So as soon as you lose your job you can't pay your rent so you're naturally a homeless person
So if Taiwan's real estate capitalism continues to flourish
The next two decades could be homeless like the UK
The last and most common question
It's actually a matter of racism
The first one is that there is academic racism in academia
Look at the distribution of teachers in European and American academic circles in this race
The vast majority are white with the largest proportion
Then I once had a conversation with a white professor about this
He also secretly told me that he was applying for the job.
they put people of color on the waiting list
is to make a politically correct claim
But the final admissions are usually not those of color
Unless it's like in the US they have this written
Black people must account for a certain proportion of teachers
But this only applies to blacks and Asians is not applicable
So you, an Asian, are not protected by political correctness.
That's the racial inequality you'll encounter in academia
So many people will ask me if I want to go to academia in the future
But then you know that sometimes it's not up to your free will to decide
It's the matter of whether or not Western academia will accept you
Then there is another kind of racism in the language of daily life.
For example, Asians will have a certain accent when speaking English.
For example, your English will have a Chinese accent or your English will have an Indian accent
Those accents sound to Europeans
will make them feel that there will be some obstacles in listening to you
That European and American people will notice this when they listen to you speak English
Then I was recently considering whether to set up a youtube channel with English pronunciation
Then that becomes a big problem
The last one is racism in dating.
For example, once I met a successful match on this dating app
As a result, a message was sent to me
Oh my God, why do I match Chinese people every time
then unpaired me
A few years ago, tinder also did a research data
They say use dating software in European and American countries
Asian men are the hardest to match
They are at the bottom of the food chain
Therefore, you may encounter racial discrimination in language, academic work, and friendship.
That's almost a daily routine in Europe and America.
So you know why this is all these years
The BLM Games in the United States are so fierce
Because so many people suffer from it
So in conclusion I would think
If you live alone, Taiwan is much better than European and American countries.
You won't have a problem with racism
Then you don't need to cook your own meals and you can eat whatever you want.
Then you will have a relatively stable circle of friends in Taiwan
Because like the friends I met in Europe this year with a master's degree
They may go back to their country after graduation
or work elsewhere
The contacts I have met this year may disappear after graduation
But if you are fixed in a country you are in Taiwan
Then Taiwanese won't be running around.
But Europeans will run around
Because the EU visa is to allow Europeans to work in various European countries
So they are very used to moving around
So this is what I think Taiwan has a lot of advantages over Europe and the United States in terms of life
But I think in academics there is also innovation in that idea stimulated
European and American countries are still very advanced. This is undeniable.
So if you want to go to academia in the future, you may still have to stay in European and American countries.
This is the first episode of the super crooked study life that I want to share with you today
Then if you want to continue watching the second episode
Welcome to leave a message below the video is the topic everyone will want to hear
If this video hits 100,000 views, I will do the second episode immediately
Share with you more super crooked study abroad life