So here's a big research bet
that all the labs are making.
They think that if we train AIs to
accomplish millions of verifiable
tasks across thousands of diverse
RL environments, then we will have
basically built AGI, because this kind
of training will have created a kind of
problem-solving agent: the kind of thing
that can make progress on open-ended
tasks for weeks on end in the face
of errors and mistakes and ambiguity.
And the people who are optimistic
about this vision will say that all
these things we talk about as the
fundamental deficits in the current
training paradigm — for example, the
data inefficiency of these models,
or the fact that they lack continual
learning — can just be steamrolled if we
scale training more, in the same way that
all the fundamental research problems
in natural language processing collapsed
when we threw enough compute into LLMs.
So in the previous essay, I talked
about how these models are one
one-millionth as sample-efficient as
humans, and the people who are in favor
of the current training paradigm will
say, "Look, that might be true, but
this is only true during training."
Training is this one-time cost that
is amortized across billions of
sessions that a model will experience.
What really matters is how smart
and general and sample-efficient
the model is during a session, and
this has clearly been improving as
we've been doing more RL training.
AI agents are able to solve more
and more ambitious problems over
longer and longer time spans.
Anybody who has used these
models for coding knows that.
Similarly, people would say, look,
continual learning — this capability
I keep harping about, where the
model's weights get updated based on
what it's learning from deployment
— may simply not be necessary.
Because if in-context learning gets
so good across longer and longer
time horizons, then you don't need to
distill everything the model is learning
on the job back into the weights.
People often say that their
employees are not net productive
until six months or more on the job.
So clearly, online learning
is necessary for competence.
But what if you could just fit those
six months into the context window?
There have been tons of architectural
innovations that dramatically increase
the amount of information, or the amount
of context, that a transformer can store.
And why not think that, with a
couple more years of progress,
we might have what feels like
infinitely large context windows?
Okay, so before we discuss this research
bet a bit further, I want to step
back and ask a completely tangential
question, which I find actually
very interesting and confusing about
the nature of current AI progress.
Why has progress on computer use been
so much slower than other domains?
Computer use is so clearly verifiable.
You could ask a question like: did the
desired Etsy item I ordered get delivered?
Is the venue for an event I'm
trying to organize booked?
Have my taxes been submitted?
So isn't it weird that computer
use has been making so much slower
progress than coding and math and
these other verifiable domains?
I'm sure there are many reasons for
this, and one of them, of course,
is the fact that the models are
exposed to far less high-quality
multimodal data during pretraining.
But one reason that I think is actually
quite underrated by people, and which I
think reveals the canyon walls against
which this river of AI progress will
only slowly chip away, is that it is not
enough for a domain to be verifiable.
It also has to be very grindable, in
the sense that you have to be able
to run lots of parallel rollouts
against a deterministic and replayable
simulator, and you have to run those
rollouts from the same starting point.
If you're trying to make a model
better at coding, you can define some
container that has a software repo
with some missing feature that you
have tasked the AIs with creating.
And then you have a thousand parallel
agents go at the problem, each of which
has an identical copy of the container.
But this doesn't work with computer
use, at least not trivially.
You can't just have a thousand
agents go try the same checkout flow
on Amazon to get better at using
websites, because Andy Jassy will
find your bots and shut your ass down.
You can solve this by making clones
of Slack and Gmail and all the other
common applications and websites.
But at least currently, this is a
very labor-intensive and unscalable
way to build environments.
Of course, once AIs get good enough
at coding themselves to build these
clones with extremely high fidelity,
then I'm sure computer use will make
quicker progress than it is right now.
And you're also killing two birds with
one stone with this kind of procedure,
because getting AIs to rebuild whole
applications from scratch is also
a great RL objective for coding.
So while computer use itself may
soon be solved, its current lethargy
is telling us the following: that
unless you can build a very replayable
training target for a domain, the models
will struggle to make much progress.
And the reason this is true, of course,
is that the models are incredibly
sample-inefficient during training.
This is the point I was
making in my last video essay.
So for computer use, we might be able
to make up for the sample-efficiency
deficit by building these
farmable deterministic simulators.
But for so many other different
kinds of skills that we need AIs
to have, we simply can't do this.
How do we train an AI to get really good
at building a business from scratch?
How about winning court cases, or having a
profitable day of trading in the markets,
or helping a candidate win an election?
The rollout here requires interacting
with the real world, and you can't
recreate it from just within a datacenter.
The outer-loop verification here
may take months or even years of
real-world actions to elicit, and you
can't re-observe it by perturbing the
model's actions slightly in thousands
of parallel rollouts to isolate exactly
what the model did that actually worked.
Now, dealing with such reset-free,
non-stationary environments
is a known open problem in RL.
I'm not pointing out anything new.
But I really do want to emphasize
that because of the idiosyncratic
and sparse nature of data in most
domains in the world, you need sample
efficiency in order to get proficient.
If AIs are to develop all the skills
that humans have, and even skills
that humans don't have, then they need
to be able to learn from information
revealed in unstructured, unverifiable,
and ambiguous ways from scarce
amounts of real-world interaction.
Because in many domains, the
relevant training information simply
doesn't exist in any other way.
What is the RL environment to make
an AI that is as good at politics as
Lyndon Johnson, or as good at building
a space-launch business as Elon Musk?
The labs are betting that
RLVR will generalize.
That is, that if you train on
enough containerized, reproducible
environments, you will develop a
very general agent that can make and
execute plans and learn rapidly from
new information, and even pick up new
skills, all within a single session.
If you drop this endlessly RLVR'd
AI into Texas politics in 1948, it
could give you better advice than
LBJ about winning the Senate seat.
And if you gave it a hundred million
dollars in 2002 and let it cook,
it would build SpaceX for you.
Now, whether RLVR can generalize
this well is an empirical question.
If the labs went from spending billions of
dollars on RL environments to a trillion
dollars, would you get the kind of
thing that is a fully human-like general
intelligence within the context window?
Dario gave a telling quote during
our podcast together, which I think
hints that RLVR generalization
is not infinitely strong.
When he was explaining why model
performance tends to degrade at long
context, he said: "There's two things.
There's the context length you
train at, and there's a context
length that you serve at.
If you train at a small context length
and then try to serve at a long context
length, maybe you get these degradations."
Now, maybe I'm reading too much
into this, but it seems like he's
saying that short-horizon RL training
doesn't necessarily generalize
to long-horizon RL performance.
And if you can't generalize from short
horizon to long horizon, then how are
agents supposed to generalize from getting
trained at a bunch of white-collar tasks
to, say, having the ability to be dropped
in the real world and build a business
from scratch as well as Sam Walton?
And even if, after enough in-context
experience, the AIs could become
like Henry Ford or Albert Einstein,
all that would be ephemeral and
wasted if you couldn't get those
learnings back into the weights.
Around 30 to 50 percent of a lab's compute
goes to inference, and that compute is
currently not playing any productive
role in helping improve the model.
This seems like a huge waste.
And it's even worse than it sounds,
because it is only in deployment
that the most valuable bits of
information which your model could
learn from are actually revealed.
What's actually happening in the
organizations where I'm being used?
What are they using me for?
And what kinds of mistakes do I
tend to make in the real world?
We've got some genius grad student
who's never been allowed to take a real
internship, and we keep giving it more
and more classroom case studies in the
form of RL training on environments.
It's so bizarre that we have AIs
that are broadly deployed through the
economy already, and are participating
in so many different kinds of tasks,
and are privy to so much domain- and
organization-specific tacit knowledge,
and they're not able to make use of it.
But this kind of continual learning
requires going back to the weights.
AIs can't just keep building up a
bigger and bigger KV cache as they
learn from more and more users.
That's just not scalable, and
that's also not how humans do it.
There's no clean separation in our brain
between parameters and activations,
and it's not like some part of your
skull keeps expanding as you learn
more things throughout your lifetime.
When we learn stuff, there's clearly
some kind of compression, and this
aids our generalization and grokking.
There are, in fact, some humans who
have this autistic-savant-type ability
to recall random tables of numbers
or nonsense syllables years later
— basically the kind of fidelity of
information that models have in context.
And such sheer volume cripples
these humans' ability to understand
abstractions and metaphors.
Human continual learning is less about
having all your observations at the tip
of your tongue and more about chiseling
the right intuitions and big-picture
knowledge back into the weights.
But the moment you move into the
weights, you have to give up on
in-context learning's sample efficiency.
Because gradient updates are super
sample-inefficient, all of the
successfully shipped online-learning
models have had to learn the exact
same thing across millions of users.
For example, the Cursor Tab model
online-learns by predicting the
same exact objective for over
400 million requests a day.
The objective here is which edits
actually got accepted by the user.
At least so far, we haven't seen models
online-learn different kinds of things for
different users, because while a single
session may generate more than enough
data for a human to learn from, it's
not enough to train a more capable AI.
Current online learning can work for
a very limited number of use cases.
But the whole point of continual
learning is that the world is very
complicated, and each job and company
and problem is different, and you need
your intelligence to be able to learn
the specific information related to a
particular deployment, which simply can't
be stuffed into some shared training run.
These are all the things we're talking
about when we talk about on-the-job
learning: things like how everything
in your organization works and fits
together, how to cooperate with all
the infrastructure and the other people
around you to make progress on some larger
project, what the common failure modes
are, and many other things like this.
As the podcast has grown, I've had to deal
with more and more operational overhead.
Take paying bills.
In the past, contractors would
just email me their invoices.
Every few weeks, I'd dig through my
inbox, create a folder with all the
bills, and manually pay each one.
At this point, though, I just
give everybody an email address
that goes straight to Mercury,
which is my banking platform.
Whenever anybody sends an invoice to
that address, Mercury automatically
downloads it, scans it, and extracts
all the relevant information — things
like the contractor name, address,
payment amount, invoice number,
and due date — and then uses all
of this to create a draft payment.
Mercury then stores a list of
these drafts for me to review.
I just go through the
list and double-check that
they've been built correctly.
I don't have to track anything
or enter any information myself.
Mercury does all the fundamental things
for your business extremely well,
and it puts them all in one place.
If you want to learn
more, go to mercury.com.
Mercury is a fintech company,
not an FDIC-insured bank.
Banking services provided
through Choice Financial Group
and Column N.A., Members FDIC.
In this way, sample efficiency and
continual learning are actually
deeply connected problems.
Relatively little data is
available to the model on the job.
Now, to learn from this data requires
sample efficiency, and models can do that
in context, but using the fast weights
that are built on the fly by attention,
which allow for this sample efficiency,
scales very poorly in terms of memory.
So we need architectural innovations
that allow for some kind of
intermediate representation.
I talked before about how we already
have many different working ideas
for this kind of thing, from sparse
attention to KV cache compaction.
And every week, somebody releases
a new paper suggesting some kind of
other architectural optimization.
It doesn't seem to me that
architecture is fundamentally what
is bottlenecking continual learning.
So perhaps the bottleneck
is the loss function.
How do we update the weights, AKA
how do we improve the model itself,
based on information that was
learned from one particular session?
Even here, naively, it seems like there
are many ideas that ought to work.
A lot of people are talking about
this technique called on-policy
self-distillation recently.
If you want to learn more about
it, I recorded a little impromptu
blackboard lecture on my iPhone with
Sasha Rush a couple weeks ago, and
it's in the link in the description.
But to summarize the explanation, the
idea is that we encourage the base model
to make the same predictions when trying
to solve some real-world problem as the
model with all the context accumulated
after a long session would have made.
The whole point of this procedure is
to distill what the model learned in a
session back into the weights themselves.
This is better than RLVR for two reasons.
One, OPSD doesn't require us to have
some outer-loop verifiable reward.
We just need a model that can learn the
right things within the context window.
And as long as we have that, we can
train the base model to match our veteran
teacher model, which has built up all
this experience during the session.
And two, OPSD provides a much denser
supervision signal than naive RL.
Instead of projecting a single
reward through the whole
trajectory, you can train on the
per-token probability discrepancy
between the teacher and student.
For continual learning, OPSD is also
superior to supervised fine-tuning.
The most naive version of SFT
for this application that you can
imagine is just to train the base
model to predict all the tokens that
are observed during the session.
But this makes no sense if you
think about it as a learning target.
The way you get better at your job
is not by recalling the transcript
of every single thing that happened
every day with perfect fidelity.
Rather, it's by consolidating the
handful of insights and pieces of
knowledge that are actually relevant
to you getting better at your job.
RL training doesn't suffer
from this failure mode.
RL is great at concentrating the
update to only what is relevant
to getting the outcome right.
That's why
the updates from RL are incredibly sparse.
And this is a very important property
for continual learning, because as
you're learning on the job, you don't
want to overwrite and forget all the
other things that the base model knows.
I wrote a post a few months
earlier arguing that RL learns
much less information per
sample than supervised learning.
But this may be a good thing
rather than a bad thing.
You only change the model as much
as is absolutely necessary to
achieve the outcome, and no more.
OPSD preserves this property of RL,
where instead of slingshotting towards
the teacher distribution as supervised
learning would have you do, you only
extract the knowledge that is necessary
to achieve the same results as the
teacher on actual real-world tasks.
OPSD is one way to attack the
sample-efficiency problem.
You take this scarce real-world
experience, and you squeeze all the
signal into a tiny, well-targeted update.
But there's also another
much more speculative idea.
Let's call it dreaming.
If the AI can build a good simulation
of reality against which to rehearse
new skills, or try alternative
strategies and reinforce what actually
works, then AIs could experience
orders of magnitude more simulated
samples in the same wall-clock time.
Let's go back into history a bit.
A couple years after DeepMind released
AlphaZero, a group of researchers
trained a model called EfficientZero,
and the whole point of this model
is to be very efficient with data.
So if this model and a human both got
two hours to play against a simulator
of an Atari game that they hadn't
seen before, this model would actually
probably beat the novice human.
Does this mean that the model was
more sample-efficient than the humans?
Well, that was the goal of the
training, but it depends on how
you measure sample efficiency.
Because for each step in the real
game, EfficientZero is playing dozens
of simulated games in its head.
In a similar way, future LLMs
might be able to consume far less
real-world data while practicing
endlessly against environments
that they build for themselves.
The big difference, of course, is
that it will be much harder to build
a simulation of the whole world than
it is to emulate the game of Go.
That's why I said this is a
much more speculative idea.
If it works, it would become a fourth
axis of scaling alongside pretraining,
RL, and inference-time compute.
You could call it test-time
training or dreaming.
The model spends compute writing up
RL environments and then training
against them, and it's rehearsing all
the skills that will actually be used
in production for a specific user.
So instead of hitting /compact in Codex
or Cursor or Claude, which kindles a small
amount of compute to write up a summary,
and which gives you the simulacrum of
continual learning, you hit /dream.
And this incinerates huge amounts of
compute to build and train against a
video-game version of what the model
is witnessing in the real world.
So what might continual learning
look like by 2027 or 2028?
And how do we get there?
Here's one scenario.
All of this RLVR training is producing
an agent that can get its bearings when
it's thrown at an unfamiliar problem,
and it can try different strategies, and
it can iterate when it hits a roadblock.
This is the crucial thing that
RLVR has given you: an AI that
is at least competent enough to
start getting some real-world
experience, if it could learn from it.
And once you have that, you send
it out into the world to do real
work, even on projects that are
off the training distribution.
Now let's say at this point, the
effective context lengths have expanded
such that AIs can jam and co-work with
you for a full week of wall-clock time.
At the end of a week, you give
it a thumbs up or a thumbs
down, you give it a work review.
And if you give it a thumbs up, the
base model distills everything that
the AI learned during the session, and
it may use OPSD, it may use dreaming,
it may use some other technique that
we aren't even aware of, or it'll use
a combination of all of the above.
And AI can get better at domains that
are adjacent to what it was explicitly
trained for beforehand with RLVR.
And in the next round it gets better
at the thing adjacent to what it
was previously online learned.
In this way, the gamut of AI skills
and knowledge and capabilities can
expand far beyond the verifiable
domains that the model was originally
trained against before it was deployed.
Just as pretraining created a base
intelligence that was smart enough to
become a competent agent with enough
RLVR on top, so RLVR has created an agent
that is competent enough to actually
be broadly deployed in the world, and
from this broad deployment to learn on
the job once the training recipe for
continual learning actually arrives.
By this point, the main way that
AIs get better is not from the
training they have received before
they are released to the public.
Rather, it's from all this experience that
they'll be accumulating from being broadly
deployed in the economy and engaging
in so many different kinds of tasks.
Every time that you interact with an
AI, it'll be smarter, not only because
it's been learning from your previous
sessions, but also because it's been
learning from all its interactions
with all the other users in the world.
And that's very scary and
exciting and different from the
way that AI improves right now.
This was a narration of a blog
post that I also released on
my website at dwarkesh.com.
Go there if you want to read all
the footnotes, or if you want to
sign up so you can find out when
I release the next blog post.
Otherwise, I'll see you
on the next episode.