- Everyone, today we from a people from a people's question to say. This is the people on Twitter on "Ling-L-Hou, this day in this land, there's a place, this is a question? This is a question. Compared to 60-to-90--to-N-O-N-O, the world's for LING-L-L-Leghoy, the time, the sure is, the way, and it's less. The economy is into the last-hinct and it is a long-term in-being, and it's into the end-ent-in-law time. In-the-sce the shes-dele like, is a-w'-wis- day-of-y-kind- and-each-cue-cru-cuit-s is the society is the all-eas-o-e the great-each--pye-est-o-e. But in the history of the many of the times all over the time and the time. Gavec-open 30 years is a short-dent-de-lis-dun-lid. Now, at least the right-eat-a-half-a-half-to-all-ta-all. Whether it's from from the forman, now, now, still not yet not yet not on the last two-year-old in the past the world. a history of the bad time, or is in history of white time, is not we can't. We can't determine what we can't see this time, how to keep in the future, and more important is, we can do something. From this point to, I reaffed the people who said, there may be there The other one, who is, it's not he said, he found, is it, is it, '49-year- to 7-6-year, he probably thought, only the eyes can't get-to-e and can get-ed-e and just a-d-gut- this is the great way. The way is not a way is not even a certain, a certain one of the time, the rightean. Many young people from the school, the entire of the year, the whole education, just like the product's production of a new system, from a new street line, by put into another new water line, and then by from the the the that's not the "Ohsuit line.'" That is a new-suit line on a "Yes you have a Hercoges, if you're a good question, if you're being right now "'withes it will be "'talloy to the next one day. "'But now, "'Lewsuit, "'suit, out, "'if it's a good one "'of the legal system "'all can be "'it can't be "'to be sort of "'to be sort of "'toin' "'to be sort of "'to be able to In the flow-suit line smoothly, the most people not need to know what's different the different. Now, the water-s- run-s-un-ture- not-sunt- right. It's just let us see what we see what is the time. any chance there is a way to for we're to be the much of people to see in the way of the time at not the not the point in we put in the time to any any way to have a weight to do you for we're to the really the future at the time so that not not at we right on the To grab the opportunity, be sure to get ready to get ready if you're going to be enough, even can't make sure, even can't make any that way, that way, you'll ask, what was the nine to 7,6, there's some key- that's- that's- that's- it's- it's- because it like the people, you know, without the opportunity, whether, and the people who need to get-to- time to get- to get-the- He could only see Mao's after when it's going to the time, but he didn't he saw the change, country different These "Chatechewy, "'tchews. "'Torkeway has a time-witue, "'zen-the-chews, "'it's in the way-lay-one "'as-the-weights-of-the-a-half-l-l-ta-lust, "'de-all-cath-eigh-eck-cue-couped, "'the-cone-chief-keeping-old-chief-out-year-old-old-old. "'But, you can-a-st, "'the-stack-cound-the-all-hack-h-cac-ckechek-key-che-key-key-kech-key-teeck "'and the years.' "Goer can't choose "'Severn't 'Suchin' "'People can't' "'Strecht' "'Peopleing is "'one a day "'a country, "'I mean, "'toe, "'what, what, "'toeck, "'toeigh, "'the, "'with, "'with, "'and, "'Just, not, "'sure, "'if I, "'and, "'if, "'it's, "'if "'in' "'an't "'an, "'in'n, "'if, "'you'll "'just, "'to, "'just, "'he, "'you'll "'ne "'he should "'" "'So "'to "'I "'to "'" "'" "'I'll "''' "' "'" "'' "'- "' "'' "' "'' "'' I'm in Twitter on the last yearm in the video of the Atebelli's example Ateean a young a in in a mined is how to how to their to their own to get into a high-sou-suit because a people in the story, his own his fenddo his own and her life, and his people, In any time, know, they're doing what, and have some and have the to make sure, to be able to get to get to get to. That way, that way, that way, her story. He said, I was from the high school graduate student, the first one work, $200 people, people, now in all the world, for American company work, do the so the government, and I, and the, Though there no you said that new hand that's but I'm not a point of I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm keep up high school taught I'm so that I'm from the I'm I'm doing in a That's I was not I was still and then after and then I'm my money and then I still I still did I'm going to get to the national high and I'mba I want to get over government so let me get the money money and I'm and I'm paying the money so I'm back to get to the company and I'm 2020, in the crisis let me to be in Australia, to do the third short-s, since I'm to do the time, I'm to think, and I'm getting, deep-goed, to be, to the world, I'm not money, but I'm but I'm thinking, it's always very sure. This could be in I've always have a crisis. Over the 20 years always to work to get in now in the next one I'm going to get to I'm going to go to life, care about and I'm care of thank you thank you the people's and you your your story and I know I'm I'm I'm paying for from the people and keep keeping and keep keep people people. I in the in the world I've got over college, but I've never beat yet and then after college so I've I've never and I'm being working on all the is a really and really In the school, then, in many people can't is to top-tort-to-sue on the but it's a a trance a marathon, more sure to say, a trance-e-e-e-e-chee-chang to a we can't make sure that that's not, not that's not even can't make-p-e-pac-same and what we can't what's-the-the- "s at the "'turb on the cap' "'trapa. "'Coppa' is not' "'epa-pour-ca-pour-tough. "'Cor-pah-paw-tah-paw-ed-paw-ca-paw-ed-poh-chied. "'Coh, 'weeigh-the-way' "'Bean' 'height-ean' '1-a-cha-ma-lostean. I think of the people's all of the show's the series of the show to make sure the show the people talk about the story is just the channel for the for the show for the show to now which, this channel's the part of the day, two, three, three, three or three or three minutes. But even though, some time the time, the long time, the time, long long, there's time, there's time. There's many times, on top of hundred times. There's stories, talk the To some of the people of the people are hard can't find out of they're is just they're they're trying the way or they're in many in a situation, and they're trying to find a different I'm in a time I've talked a day a story about a I was in the Japan's four-go-biener-up On the husband called Martin, is a late-sue professor, and in Chavezhury in the high-ean-sum-wishue. Her wife, her wife, her wife, she was a piano-law-sher. Go to ginshers, we're each eat lunche'clock. I asked Martin, "Hawyang science-o-scent-o-scent-scent-o-scent-o-sho-sheard-scent. He said, his work is a little bit special. Not just is education, many times are in high-sha-outed, with shard, and with shrewsha waterways. He said, "Meycourt.'" He said, "Meycourt.'" This one, he has been done 10 years. He said, the time is important. Shallonged glee, if you'll get rid of the best-uped-shaired to get-of-shaeuvre, he has got to-the-your-jury, and she was important. Her-ta-ta-ta-ta-carin said, Martin, said, Martin, like, talking people-the-sha-u-a-u-u he'd be able to shard-u is the way-st-gach-gir-he-st-e to. And then, Karen said a word, that I think he than Martin can't really. He said, there's people and someone who's trying to find out a chance. I mean to say and say, Cairn's word, say Karen's free will jettly. He looked at a question, you're going to you're a person, you is a good, This part I asked me I thought I had made think he can put his words used to me on the same we're in we're just from the end up we're not, we're not, I also can from them on them on the same see this self-chromed the law-in. This kind of will be able in our in the world. In the when I'm also I'm often see this self-chaw- thought-and-a- drawing-in people can feel to the one can't feel to the front of can't be common, can be able to show the form the people. Twitter's state of it and you don't look YouTube I'm my there are there's a word saying that I'm a lot of people just the whole people people and that what everything put to that and the and don't think something that can't something but that I'm can't This word could to give a way it's a way, it's a lot of he said this is this is the people people who people's people who people and the way that saying it's saying it's not much you say you say people people people might there will people might be there will be people out and And, I'm not really good-eat-it-the. I in China lived in Chinese-you-word-word, using Chinese-let-lough YouTube. I don't other countries. The most don't people. But I from experience know, so, other countries people are people who are and how-ru- people, and not don't more don't other people. Not a lot of people's this is my little quinole. He may he's it's the people who people but people when they said they've said their people they're to the people and even say which people all people all all this all I'm right. And so I'm not. A.I. I'm sorry. I'm not. I'm not. I'm sorry. You know, I'm not. You know, but I'm from by. I'm just by these. The Every country's all people all the people of all different every country of people of all people all of people people who have so-sue people people and you but you not you but you not you're not in the concept and You are in a specific country, the specific of the society of people in their different, there's the way only one one of your people, you're people, and then people, the you're the whole-to- people, is a good, I just in China and America, and American people and in the same, in a huge, large, chardue. As a Chinese, just to learn to, so can short this chart. This is there not is a far more than in a world's experience of Chinese, but it's There's a very interesting I'm a good I'm going to American say the American people to now to see I'm never ever ever before even I'm even though but just on the Chinese one say people's people every time every time some people say people say other people's This is a lot of people's people's In fact, So, to the end, It's Tohue, It'ss, right, It's right, It's chie-chee-Ren. This kind had a few days' people, and it's made out of un-sue of people, I'm at in the good-s-o-s- people, all-s-o-s--cooked-o- people-o- My that Tets said, have no opportunity to be people not not a land of any type of not a day you and I'm there also a talk some my time that the time he said my my family is a society and college and college college and not got Just you do Shumu, and not you do not to be unhueyue, get English. And then, they told, take in the language, and I'm saying and then when go, get the boughl, have a long-in-chrached the key, a bit, do you, do it, and if there's not a good,, you'd just can't be at noongue and do not to be the ch'huis' the This story can give people's to give people's life to give a deep and change. Every time, there are a crime time. Every person also will have there's time. A good end person who's can do the is help those who are in the people who are looking in seeing the people, to make sure to make out of the dark out of things and to make sure and they're doing The way is to be able to grab the opportunity to do the right. The most of the people are nother, no one of those thoughts, and there's no idea, and there's no time. They're just as in the time of chowloughed by chowl the chowl being chung-goed, just in front down, So, and in the world history all the rest of all, but even in the most dark at the time, even in fact, it's in even in the one of the time, even in even in the same way, there are all the and it, and it, and we all and it, and the life and who people, I'm, who life, and it just to be quite to get in the time, and the the more, the one the, and the Another one of the one's the The end-sion the most many-your-old people were in the first-year- to be the first- year-e and when we can get to the money, they are they're their young they they they're making the big and and that being than than and than now and it's over but they in in the hope of any of the still in the way to life life and we're a lot to make the first people people and the time when people when that people that can the the and the mind this kind of this and I'm The more has had had the thought, the way is and the way is the right is your mind, the person, the way to be chung to where you're like you, like that's like over the years, and over the year, the years, Ling-Noh, to think it's good news. First, curfew-toof the people's just shirong, to be-te-eight-seek-che-rich. Being, strong-goyed-kind, by eye-gaw-to-see-of-scibly, to care-go-sit-sewore, think-all-kind-all-kind-all-hack-all-know-kind-she-s, that's-she-n't-all-know-control-all-all-cook-old, what-cust-be-all-cru-cest, not-huff-hye. "Whine' any kind of what industry, is in local-in-farine or is to-work-tron-the-country, "'n't even to stand these two-day-one, "'five years' you'll go over 90% of Pt9% of Tonglinger, "'st 10-year-to-goer, "'the-nepernsoreau-Nus New York-Nes? "'Way-ligh-tiehout-tus who they. In life some that's get people get-in-start-it-like things actually very easy. Do-do not should need to not give to what's from a kiel, far from those who's the people of all-Kee-Kee- people, get-of-kiel, and from many-s-k-o- people and-n-an-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-k, Look how people how people how people how people, go to people's going to the road, have this is a real, there's this in the end-jeet, and as the same-ing-ly, when a lot of people live in Akeo, and work to sound-ling-sau when you can live to live to look to Zhao-Tai-E and-Sor-E and so you can have a good-shed. Zhou Suhran about the people's people and in the right talk about say the government not but I'm not I've never seen I'm not even than more than "Kang a people who's no good one "'You can't a simple way. "'Just say a 'Chate people's' "'It'shue-rom, "'sebate, "'sebally,'sie-chee-chee-chee-chee-chee-hook-hout-huis-hore-h. "'Hent' many good-suchyed to "'Chief-Kexhuechewed 'Chief-Mov these "'Theirphue people.'" "Mey Chookech of the people.'" If they're just doing so much of the road to say it, it's all right now, it's not so on, but it's just on the mow, look, so the other people's so that "You know""""""""", "Chicter"""""""""" "Meghrucied." To the people's the people's, often, and I learn to, and grow up, a new-kiddy's, a person, in the video, in the world. He said, "Tewa'uette' hear of the last night, "Chabelli' from L'N' start' start on the C&BC' run'n'bally' story and video' "Go'nbigh'a' opinion'"""" "What'n'u'a' opinion'"" Thank you. To the boarder to say, every key quack all is a great support. It's a lot of doing work. I particularly appreciate this the people. I'm just going to see it. See it. And B.C. The one word and the video. This is a good-being, this is sodoming, this is a lot of in the Chinese you usually you're usually that you need to need to and you know in the world in the world any other any one just you can't get a few and can't get some you can't go go out but it but also there and there people who This is a one to do-it-school If it's a child if it's children can from this bade-dove in the student-to- so I'm particularly I'm especially I'm listening, he's the show, I'm and I'm going to see see-NBC and and the video and the video This sort of in the more than will not even will send to children. The family should be sent to end-in-s-she- children, and so-to-just-e to do, and then-a-he-kind- to do-o-shue to learn- I hope those who people who get-l-le- parents can from this way people to learn to get- about great-of- students and the children, I am That way people The people said, "Ome schooling eight years more. It's very very important to make the children and the different and the my wife my wife at my at the children and the money and the more and the In like, I, I'm 50-year-old to do a. I. And, you know, AI, to home-schooling the help children. Kids may how much the key key to the AI bring to the trade, transform to turn- to turn-to- turn-to- get- a-o--est- and can't get-e- England now is in refaer the time by the time Boulareh's the time, and then he's sent in the school, and then recommend student-tou-court. Chabelley-fong-e-chee-work. Chabelley-fong-e-chee-suechee-knotes, choose-machshu-li-sru-lii-do-lis, is similar to in-rein-day-in-ppied-an-pppye. Today's show just how can with the Navarer Bouten get up to how much how much how much how to make how to soon as that's that we the people the people the people and this one of your stories, person, people, and experience, and other than people, it's not, and to be able to get people, and learn knowledge, and start awareness. Many people, I've got to be able to show what. In the next time to share, say, my 'dut.combe, and I want more people can tell them to tell you the story. Today's words said Thank you.