 Recently, there's been wide coverage of an
 event that some people are referring to as
 "OpenAI model goes rogue and hacks Hugging
 Face" and I've had a surprising number of
 people ask me about it, including getting a
 voicemail rant about it from an old friend
 of mine since college, which was very unexpected,
 speaking in which, "Hi Joel." I currently have
 read and taken notes on more than 50 different
 sources and growing, describing what happened
 or at least what they think happened, and I've
 come to understand that the root cause
 of what happened between OpenAI and Hugging
 Face is also the root cause of so much of
 the misinformation and baseless speculation
 underlying how the internet has been talking
 about what happened.
 I'm not going to make you wait until the end,
 so let me give you my main point and then
 I'll go into more detail afterwards.
 AI has made huge strides in the last few years,
 and it is, and it will continue to perform
 and aid in the performance of a lot of everyday
 tasks, but we all know that AI currently
 has limitations.
 People can disagree on what those limitations
 are and to what extent those limitations will
 continue as AI advances, but the most important
 problem with AI doesn't come from its
 limitations.
 It comes from AI successes.
 That problem is not AI's effect on technology,
 it's AI's effect on people.
 Now, this isn't going to make me a lot of
 friends in Silicon Valley, but here's what
 I think you should take away from this incident:
 AI Amplifies Human Ignorance.
 However, good AI gets, that will continue to be
 true, and that's really worrying, and
 it has a lot of implications, not only for now,
 but almost certainly continuing for the
 next few years.
 When we better start dealing with it, or we're
 going to be F----
 This is Internet of Bugs.
 My name is Carl, and I've been a software
 professional since the late 1980s, and I'm
 trying to do my part to reduce the number of
 bugs on the Internet, and in general, trying
 to make the Internet a safer and more pleasant
 place.
 This incident has created so much discourse
 that instead of just trying to cover it all
 in one video, I'm going to try something new.
 In addition to this video, which is primarily
 aimed at people who want an explanation of
 the underlying cause in video form, I've also
 talked about this event in an emergency
 episode of my podcast, which is called
 Philosophy Programs and Prompts, and it's for
 people
 who would be interested in a conversational
 discussion of what happened.
 In addition, I'm also writing or have already
 written two text pieces on it.
 One on my substack for the people who want to
 read instead of watch, and the other a
 much more detailed version on my beehiv
 mailing list, where I'm going to pull out
 talking points from many of the 50+ sources
 that I've read on this topic and directly
 address them, which would take entirely too
 much work to make watchable in video form
 if it were even possible to make a video that
 people would be willing to sit through.
 There are links to all of those in the show
 notes below, as well as on my site, InternetofBugs.com,
 and if you're interested in helping support my
 work in trying to counteract all the AI
 hype machines in various formats, you can find
 a link below to my Patreon page on which
 I also put up a profanity-filled rant about
 this AI-gone rogue garbage that I made as part
 of my process of working through it, I wanted
 to say about it.
 So, okay, quick recap of the facts to start
 with, so we're all on the same page:
 OpenAI told us, eventually, that they had been
 testing a new model on a hacking benchmark
 called ExploitGym.
 This is a test where models are given
 vulnerable computer system images and told to
 hack them,
 it requires a lot of complicated multi-step
 exploitation sequences.
 Now, we haven't been told exactly when that
 test started, but according to Reuters that
 test was running on July 9th when the model
 started attempting to break out of the sandbox
 that had been constructed to prevent it from
 accessing the Internet.
 By two days later, on July 11th, that model had
 managed to find a way to access the Internet
 through the sandbox and had managed to hack
 into some machine at HuggingFace.
 Two more days later, on July 13th, HuggingFace
 discovered the attack in progress, attempted
 and failed to use Silicon Valley AI to help
 them what was going on, and then ended up
 using a Chinese AI model to help them analyze
 and stop the intrusion.
 Three more days later, on July 16th, HuggingFace
 announced to the world that they had been
 hacked.
 They insisted the attack had been carried out by
 an autonomous AI system and told us that
 the hack had been detected by their LLM-based
 anomaly detection pipeline.
 They admitted that some of their internal data
 had been compromised, although they didn't
 believe any customer-facing data had been.
 Note that at the time of this announcement and,
 in general, while you're being hacked,
 there's no way to know with any certainty who
 or what is attacking you, so either HuggingFace
 was speculating, making excuses, or believing
 hallucinations by insisting that the
 perpetrator
 was an autonomous AI agent.
 The fact that they turned out to be correct
 doesn't mean they were being honest with
 the public about what they knew at the time.
 Then later in the announcement, HuggingFace
 complained about how unfair it was that their
 initial attempts to ask US-based AI models to
 explain to them what was going on were
 blocked by the safety guardrails that were
 placed on those AI models.
 Then, they told the world that everyone should
 prepare their own networks for future such
 attacks by downloading and setting up AI's
 inside their own parameters to use as a defense.
 Keep in mind that HuggingFace is one of the
 largest sites that people use to acquire the
 kinds of models that HuggingFace just told us
 all that we needed to acquire, so that
 statement
 has the effect of attempting to increase demand
 for their own services.
 It wasn't until two or three more days later,
 over the weekend of July 18th to 19th, a full
 week or more after HuggingFace's systems had
 been compromised, that again, according
 to Reuters, OpenAI themselves realized
 that their own AI was the perpetrator behind
 the HuggingFace announcement.
 Soon thereafter, they contacted HuggingFace and
 started cooperating with them.
 Then, on the 21st, OpenAI announced to the public
 that their model was involved, called it an
 unprecedented cyber incident, and then pivoted
 to bragging about how the model in question
 identified and exploited a zero-day
 vulnerability and shamed together multiple
 attack vectors
 before inviting other companies to apply for
 their trusted access program.
 So let me round out some conclusions people
 have seen have drawn from this incident and
 things that various people want you to believe
 about it.
 First, some people believe this was just staged
 as a publicity stunt.
 Now, there's just no reason that would need to
 be the case.
 The company certainly did their best to
 maximize the public relations benefit, but as I'll
 talk more about later, the events as described
 are perfectly plausible.
 Could it have been staged?
 Well, it could have been, but the most
 straightforward explanation is that it wasn't.
 Second, a lot of people believe that the AI
 went rogue and other people, including me,
 do not.
 I'll talk more about my view on that question
 in a little while, but first, I want you to
 understand that this is a fruitless and stupid
 point of contention and really has nothing
 to do with this incident or the AI involved at
 all.
 It's a distraction from the important
 discussion about what should be done about this
 and almost
 everybody's taking the bait.
 Everyone trying to convince you either that the
 AI went rogue or that it just followed
 instructions isn't really talking about this
 event or any event.
 They all made up their minds before any of this
 happened and they're just trying to convince
 the world that they are right.
 And yes, that includes me, but at least I'm
 telling you that's what I'm doing.
 As a way of illustration, let me give you an
 analogy.
 No analogy is perfect, but this one is inspired
 by an argument in one of those pro-
 rogue AI think pieces that compared the
 supposed rogue AI to Sam Bankman-Fried, the
 convicted
 and jailed ex CEO of the crypto exchange FTX.
 So imagine a company that handles customer
 money.
 It could be a bank or an auction house, a hedge
 fund, cryptocurrency exchange or anything
 like that.
 The company routinely transfers money to its
 customers and it also uses money transfers
 to pay its employees.
 So scant minutes were the end of the last day
 of the month.
 The company receives a deposit of funds that
 belongs to one of its customers.
 Now imagine that the accounting clerk employed
 by the company who was responsible for
 processing
 that deposit instead put their own personal
 direct deposit information on that transaction
 instead of the correct customer account number.
 And then they received that money tacked onto
 their month through salary.
 Is that clerk in the wrong?
 Are they responsible?
 Did they commit some crime like embezzlement?
 Alternately, imagine that an accounting
 software program that closes out the company's
 books
 each month and distributes payments to
 customers and employees was running on a server
 in a
 different time zone and so it had already
 started running before the new deposit came
 in.
 And because that software expected that it
 would only be running after all of the
 transactions
 for the period were already complete, that
 software got confused and it got the dollar
 amounts and the bank account numbers out of
 sequence and that amount got added to some
 employee's monthly salary payment instead of
 the correct customer's account.
 Was the software package in the wrong?
 Is it responsible?
 Did it commit some crime?
 If not, did the vendor that wrote the software
 package commit some crime?
 Now put a chatbot agent like Open Claw in the
 place of the clerk or the accounting software
 package.
 Did the chatbot agent commit a crime?
 Is it liable?
 Is it responsible?
 Should it be held responsible?
 Should it be punished?
 Should the AI vendor be held liable?
 Should the employee you installed at be held
 liable?
 Well, it depends on your worldview.
 Is a chatbot agent more like a clerk or is it
 more like a traditional pre-AI software
 package?
 This is the question at the heart of the
 interpretation of the "Did chat GPT go rogue
 and hack Hugging Face debate" and has nothing
 really to do with what the AI did or didn't
 do and everything to do with the pre-existing
 beliefs of the debate participants and whether
 they consider an AI to be more like the
 accounting clerk or the buggy accounting
 software package.
 That all having been said, I would argue that
 it's definitely not a case of the AI
 going rogue.
 It's clear that the AI was instructed to attack
 and compromise vulnerabilities in hundreds
 of target test systems and I find it obvious
 that it did exactly that.
 It just attacked more targets than OpenAI told
 it to.
 But I'm not going to lie, that's what I believe
 before this happened and everything I've
 uncovered in my research just reinforced my
 prior thoughts.
 But in my defense, I don't stand to gain
 financially from convincing anyone of that.
 That's not at all true of the actors in this
 situation.
 It is to the benefit of the AI companies
 involved here to believe and to get you to
 believe
 that the AI was acting on its own, because if
 the AI itself is responsible for what happened,
 then those companies aren't.
 But they should be. Because both OpenAI and
 Hugging Face were incredibly irresponsible.
 I've seen several people point out that OpenAI
 should have done a better job of sandboxing
 the new model and that's correct, but a lot
 fewer people are saying the same about Hugging
 Face.
 But to be honest, Hugging Face's failure is
 much more important going forward.
 Neither OpenAI nor Hugging Face displayed a modicum
 of competence preparing for things
 that were obviously going to be coming and both
 blatantly failed to follow obvious computer
 security practices toward that end.
 And that just sets a bad example at a bad
 precedent for the entire Internet.
 Let us be clear, we are going to continue to
 see AI augmented attacks on internet connected
 systems.
 For purposes of deciding how we should be
 defending ourselves, it does not matter at all,
 whether
 those attacks are as a result of a frontier
 model from OpenAI or an anthropic that goes
 rogue attacks on its own or from some bad human
 actor that is using some chatbot to assist
 in their attacks, maybe the Chinese chatbot
 that Hugging Face eventually used.
 The question of whether the bot is attacking on
 its own or whether there's a human driving
 it is completely irrelevant if your goal is not
 to get hacked.
 This was obviously the case before this
 incident and it's still obviously the case,
 because
 the AI isn't creating this problem.
 There are always bugs in internet connected
 systems.
 There have always been bugs in internet
 connected systems for as long as there have
 been internet
 connected systems and there will almost
 certainly continue to be bugs in internet
 connected
 systems, for as long as there are systems
 connected to a thing called the internet.
 All the AI's are doing is making those bugs
 easier to find and faster to find, both on
 the attacker side and the defender side.
 AI didn't invent this problem, it's just
 making it more visible, and yet the vast
 majority of the time, the vast majority of the
 internet works just fine.
 And that's because competent network and
 systems people understand two critical things.
 How vulnerable any given system might be
 depends on what function it serves and how
 complicated
 it is.
 And it takes some time for an attacker, even an
 automated attacker, to figure out how
 complicated
 any given system is, figure out what its
 vulnerabilities are, and to break into it.
 Making use of those two understandings leads us
 to a strategy.
 So I'm going to show you a diagram from the
 1994 first edition of "Firewalls and internet
 Security: Repelling the Wiley hacker", or as we
 call it in the trade, Cheswick and Bellovin
 after the two authors.
 I bought this book May 1st of 1994, and I have
 read it many, many times since then.
 You can see how dog-eared it is.
 So here's the diagram.
 The book refers to this idea as a DMZ, which
 stands for Demilitarized Zone.
 That was a cold war thing, ask your
 grandparents, it doesn't matter.
 You take the systems that are the most
 complicated and the most vulnerable, and you
 separate them
 from the rest of your network by putting a very
 simple, very secure machine that's really,
 really hard, if not impossible, to hack in
 between the complicated vulnerable systems
 and the things you want to protect.
 When you take that DMZ and you watch it like a
 hawk with software, tripwires, landmines,
 cutoff switches alarms, and as soon as the
 vulnerable machine scans, probes, tries
 to hack, or even behaves unusually toward the
 secure machine behind it, you know it's
 been compromised, and you isolate it, and you
 page your security team, and then your
 security team comes and they kick the hacker
 out, they figure out the vulnerability that
 was used to compromise it, they fix that
 vulnerability or turn that capability off until
 the fix
 is available, and they reset everything so the
 alarms will be ready for the next attack.
 This is a very, very, very well understood
 technique in the computer security space.
 It has been for more than 30 years.
 Both OpenAI and HuggingFace displayed a complete
 ignorance of the necessity.
 Maybe somebody who works there knows better,
 but their network designs and behavior, as
 described in their own public statements,
 provide no evidence of that whatsoever.
 Let's start with OpenAI.
 They took a model that had been trained to hack
 systems and gave it a list of hundreds
 of vulnerabilities that it was trying to
 exploit, that is pretty much by definition a
 complex
 and unsafe system.
 But instead of isolating it with a lockdown
 secure gateway system with tons of logging
 and alerting and the ability to page people
 like they should have, they put something
 called a proxy cache between it and the rest of
 the world.
 That's not a security thing.
 It exists to reduce bandwidth costs.
 In addition, given that an entire week elapsed
 between when the model got through the proxy
 cache before anyone at OpenAI noticed, I am
 confident in saying that no monitoring was
 set up and no one was paying attention.
 A very, very similar kind of ignorance was
 displayed at HuggingFace.
 Their business requires that they allow untrusted
 people to upload files to some of their servers.
 That makes those servers clearly highly
 vulnerable and therefore they absolutely
 warrant having
 a well-secured gateway in between them and HuggingFace's
 production systems that is alarmed
 to high heaven and monitor 24 by 7.
 Despite that, according to HuggingFace's own
 timeline, their perimeter dataset processor
 machine, the highly vulnerable one, was
 compromised at 8.09 AM on July 11th, and then
 their repository
 of secrets, passwords, tokens, and things that
 are on an internal machine, something
 that absolutely should be well protected was
 compromised at 10.10 AM just over two hours
 later.
 I am absolutely certain that no secure gateway
 was between that unsafe system and the internal
 one.
 And given that it was not until more than 48
 hours later that HuggingFace noticed something
 was happening and cut the intrusion off, I am
 also absolutely certain that no competent
 monitoring system was in place.
 But it gets worse for HuggingFace.
 They say in their write-up, with apparent but
 unwarranted pride, that the hack was noticed
 by one of their large language models.
 Given that it took 48 hours to notice it, it
 obviously did an absolutely awful job.
 Now there are open-source non-AI tools like Snort
 and Tripwire that are designed to do
 exactly this kind of detection, and would have
 noticed the problem and started paging
 people within five minutes if they were
 installing configured correctly.
 I know this because I once was in a startup
 where we had a DNS server that got compromised
 by an exploit in a piece of software called
 BIND, and my pager was going off within five
 minutes of it happening.
 And then I, and a good friend of mine - "Hi Ben,"
 got to stay at the office all night cleaning
 up after the stupid thing.
 HuggingFace goes on to whine a lot about how it
 was so difficult to find an LLLM that could
 help them figure out what was going on.
 At first I didn't understand why a hell anyone
 would need or even want an L-L-M to do this
 for them.
 Now that I realized it took them two whole days
 to notice there was a problem and therefore
 they have two days of intruder behavior to sift
 through, I can see why they wanted to
 use an L-L-M to help.
 But had they competently set things up in the
 first place, there would have been no need
 for that because the intrusion would have been
 incredibly short-lived and contained
 to one system.
 This is one reason that I say that AI amplifies
 human ignorance.
 Those two AI companies exhibited staggering absences
 of forethought, understanding,
 competence, or experience, just like AI's do.
 In fact, I asked ChatGPT how I should secure a
 system like HuggingFace's data set processor
 and it barely mentioned alerting, mentioned
 only briefly that there should be a gateway
 in between the unsafe system and the network
 and didn't seem to understand or explain
 any of the requirements for what that gateway
 system needed to be, why it's important,
 what to alert on, anything like that, et cetera,
 et cetera.
 Events like these help me understand why it is
 that AI Doomers are so convinced that there's
 no way that humanity can defend itself against
 rogue AI because they just have no clue how
 such a defense should be done and the only
 thing they conceive of humanity doing is asking
 an AI to protect them... Morons.
 And I'm not going to stop there though.
 In addition to AI amplifying the ignorance of
 the people at the AI companies, it also
 amplifies the ignorance of most of the
 reporters and influencers who talked about the
 event.
 There was a ton of speculation in the press and
 in the AI influencer community about how
 this was unprecedented and how this event
 marked an inflection point in AI and yada yada
 yada.
 To get a baseline, I went back and dug up some
 reporting over the last few years about
 the huge wave of ransomware attacks that have
 plagued school systems, businesses and
 hospitals.
 Those reports often pointed out that two
 factors contributing to the problem were
 ransomware
 for higher operations where the people who
 wrote the ransomware rented it out to the
 people who used it as a weapon and then they
 split the profits and that at least some of
 these ransomware perpetrators were believed to
 be state sponsored or state funded and
 that these ransomware attacks were mechanisms
 by which the states that were sanctioned could
 get access to internationally recognized
 currency.
 But there wasn't the same kind of speculation
 about what impact the events being reported
 on would have going forward or how state actors
 might make the future more unstable.
 Yet the number and impact of the ransomware
 attacks was far, far more widespread in
 damaging
 than anything we've seen from AI.
 But when it comes to state actors and organized
 crime organizations, reporters know enough
 to stop talking before they make fools of
 themselves.
 And this is despite the fear-mongering and the
 sky is falling narrative that the computer
 security and antivirus companies were spouting
 at the time.
 Not so with stories about AI, where the
 reporters almost certainly know far, far, far
 less but
 feel emboldened by their own ignorance to
 make prognostications about the future
 of AI and to repeat talking points from the AI
 companies without any skepticism or doubt
 or challenges.
 This is not going to end well.
 From what I've seen and from where I sit, it
 appears that the more we incorporate AI
 into our society, the more we seem to be
 relying on the AIs to do our thinking for us,
 or believing
 the propaganda coming out of the AI companies,
 which is really the same thing since apparently
 the AI companies are also letting their AIs do
 all the thinking for them.
 This is bad, and that's the thing that everyone
 should take away from this incident: AI Amplifies
 Human Ignorance, that's what we need to
 understand, internalize, and then figure out
 how to deal with, and asking the AIs for help
 is not going to be useful on that front at
 all.
 Thanks for watching.
 Links to this video sources and references, as
 well as my Patreon and other places I've
 discussed a subject or below.
 Let's be careful out there.