Welcome to Traveling Restaurant This is a program about the products of a group of friends We pay more attention to investment and how to live better I am Yubai Today's program is a bit special It's a offline event from the restaurant in Xi'an We never film offline activities But that day in Xi'an I always feel that this conversation is worth staying This time my guest is teacher Yang Suqiu She wrote a book I really like Why do you need a library in the world? This book is also a year-end library for Douban 2024 In this book She recorded the story of herself in Xi'an Hanging in the back area to build a public library When preparing for this event 老师感慨说:这几年,西安的独立书店越来越少了。我就顺口接了一句:那这次我们不如就好好聊一聊,西安为什么要有图书馆吧。最开始我只是抖机灵,但后来越想越觉得这个问题真值得被好好聊一聊。一方面,它像是在问城市,一座城市到底为什么需要图书馆,它究竟象征着什么。另一方面,它也是在问我们自己, In an era where everything can be found on the phone Why do we still need a place to let ourselves be quiet and read books? After doing so many small pubs and pubs I also feel that everyone's life is very different And these differences will create the way we look at the world In the past, we talked a lot about reason and experience But this conversation is very specific It happened in Xi'an, in a real city 你可能不在西安也從來沒有去過西安但也許這樣的對話能夠讓你對自己身邊的生活閱讀還有空間有一點點新的感受希望你會喜歡希望你會喜歡 [Music] Hello everyone, I am Yu Bai. I am the host of "Only You" and also the host of "Bo Ke's Balloon House". I am very happy to see everyone in Xi'an today. Thank you. [Applause] Let me introduce our guest today, Yang Suqiu. Yang Suqiu is a teacher at Xi'an Academy of Drama. She is also the book I just mentioned that I like very much. Why should there be a book store author? He went to the culture and tourism sports bureau in the Beilin district in 2020 and built the library in the Beilin district from scratch. That experience later became this book that was well-received. Recently, he became a teacher at Xi'an Theater Academy. The early preparation work of the theater library was actually participated by Mr. Yang. I think we can have a good chat today about the current public cultural space in Xi'an, where we are now and our current reading methods Thank you very much for joining us for this episode of "Traveling Restaurant" Now I can introduce myself, right? Yes I am Yang Suqiu I used to come to the theater to watch the play This is the first time I sit in this place I really wanted to chat with Yubai. Before, the theater said, "Hey, this is a small pub, I want to invite you to chat with him." I was a bit nervous, I said, "I'm a financial support Xiao Bai, what should I chat about? I can't chat." Later they said, "Yubai doesn't want to chat with you about financial support, he wants to chat with you about the library." I said, "This is fine, we can chat a bit more." 我们今天从哪聊起我觉得可以先从我们生活经验聊起比如说杨老师可以先分享一下你在西安生活这么多年你观察到的图书馆书店这样的一些西安的文化公共空间的这些变化我觉得西安这两年就是公共文化空间它数量有一个非常迅猛的增长比如说大家可能在产巴那个地方看到的长安云长安月啊长安书院啊还有就是 All the libraries in each district have been built according to the rules of public service. And there are some small libraries in the community. I think it has increased a lot in terms of number. But the use of it is not very high. Why? I think it's a question of reading consciousness. I thought that everyone knew what kind of place the library was. But when I was in the Berlin Museum, I asked people around the building. When I saw them wandering around in front of our door, I asked them why they didn't come in. They said, "Is this place for fees? How much is the books sold here?" They would ask this question. But in fact, the standard for this place is clearly that it is a library in the Beiling District. I thought that I was a bit far from the masses. I was always in high school, and everyone knew what the library was for. I thought that everyone knew, but the truth is not like that. So, a child from a young age, who didn't have a fixed habit of going to the library, when he was an adult, Maybe he wouldn't think that the library is a place where I can go on weekends. Because when it comes to this topic, I feel that without research, there is no right to speak. So I came to Xi'an two days in advance. Except for eating and drinking, I went to the Beijing District Library yesterday. I really want to ask you about your eating and drinking these days. Generally speaking, it's made in hand. Made in hand, this sentence is very standard. How to talk about it? Anyway, it's delicious. So I ate a lot these days. And then like yesterday 去贝林区图书馆的时候其实我就有观察到首先它的门头是没有非常明显的标志的你去的是老的地址还是新的地址是在中楼附近吗叫水什么接的那一间是在地上了已经因为它已经搬家了就是搬到地上了对它在地上然后它的那个它现在是市运营所以可能不太那个门头原来如此在市运营因为感觉它那个门头好像是一个贴上去的一张纸一样 There was no clear sign inside. I saw someone walking to the second floor. I followed them. Otherwise, I would have been afraid to go in if I didn't have a mission. So I understand the fear of the library. And the building looked very magnificent. 然后进到里面之后就会有一些熟悉感看到了苏秋老师在书里写的比如说她有背贴专区对可以让大家黎摹这些贴子我觉得特别好非常契合背铃区本身的特质然后楼上就是大片的像是自习区或者阅读区也看到了很多年轻人在那边看书学习但我觉得就像苏秋老师说的确实利用率不太高 One is because of the working day. The other is that people are not familiar with how to use the public resources around them. When I was running a small public library a few years ago, we always wanted to do some selection questions to help people understand what public facilities are around them. For example, the sanatorium, the medical office, and the street office. What can they provide you with? For example, whether it's a library or a library, there are some interesting cultural activities, or reading and music, sometimes there are also movie plays. If we can help everyone expand their life boundaries, I think this is a... 很有价值的事情我觉得可能确实是在这方面不是先一个城市的现象我觉得是很多城市的现象大家其实不太知道该怎么利用这些地方而且会有一种畏惧感我会觉得就是在有一些相对来说大一点的城市有的时候你会觉得艺术好像是随时随地发生的比如说你会到某一个街区发现有一些漂亮的涂鸦或者有一些街头的乐队啊小的剧团这种 In a big city, it's okay. But I think it's not that trendy here. But I think it's actually a very strange thing. Because as a foreigner, every time I see the two words Xi'an, the first label in my mind is history. The second label is culture. It is a city with a very deep cultural background. So if people in the modern era have many barriers to this kind of public culture, I think it's a little bit of a pity. Because if it's in Beijing, a library like the National Library is really hard to find. Including on weekends, even if it's a small community library, or something like the TianTong Yard, The cultural center is full of people. So I think it's quite disappointing in Xi'an. Before I came here, I searched on the Internet about the independent bookstore in Xi'an. I saw many local friends said that the number of independent bookstores in Xi'an was decreasing. Yes, you went to a place yesterday, right? Yes, I went to Wanbang. Gujiu study. Yes. I think that bookstore is very good. It's near the History Museum of Shaanxi Province. Yes, it's on the first floor of a residential building in a small district. After you enter, you will feel like a... 老朋友的家一样,好像是他家里的书房向你开放了。对,他就很像是一个人把家里的书房对你开放,因为里边的物件感觉也是有年代感的,包括他。老板会去二手市场淘。对,他陈设的书有比如说民国时期的期刊,然后比如说张汉水的这些小说,以及还有一些八九十年代出版的书籍啊等等等等,就是你会在那里会感觉比较自在。 Because I'm actually a person who is not that free when I go to a bookstore Especially when I go to those kind of bookstores that are particularly exciting and special I always feel like I have a lot of things in my hands Do you think I can turn around and leave when I take it? But yesterday you seemed to stay there for a long time Yes, I felt like I had found the fun of reading for a long time 包括我昨天在貝林區圖書館也是這樣比如我就看到一本賞悉的一個圖鑒的一本書是吧感覺也挺有意思的對然後這會讓我反思我覺得可能是不是也是做這個節目做久了老師下意識會覺得說我讀的書得稍微帶一點有用性如果它是小時候會父母認定的那種閒書我就會有一種我看這個書我就會心裡會有一點負罪感會有點壓力感 When I put down the hard work and went to the library and bookstore, I think I found the happiness of long time ago, and the joy of reading interesting books. Yesterday you were drinking tea there, eating tea, so you stayed longer. Yes. It's really suitable for everyone to go around, just near the small town. So what kind of places do you usually go? I don't really go to many bookstores. I know the independent bookstore you mentioned earlier. I also go to the original "Huo Yao Bookstore" There's a "Huo Yao Bookstore" How did you know? I do my homework Oh, right. But the boss of the "Huo Yao Bookstore" is very popular "Xiao Hong, where is the book?" Someone often says in the comments section The fate of me and this boss is -20. He always closes the door every time he comes. Because he's very casual, he doesn't open the door every day. His boss also has a good taste in choosing books. Sometimes I would go and sit there and chat with him. But now the bookstore is getting smaller and smaller. Actually, when teacher Suqiu said earlier, you said that for example, many people don't know that they can go to the library. Maybe for us, First, the library is free. Second, there are many books. You can enjoy the warmth in winter. You can enjoy the air conditioning in summer. Going to the library is fun. But some people may not have such experience since childhood. They don't have such experience, so they don't go. I think there may be a trend of this era behind this. A narrative logic or point of view is in it. I think I have more material, I will be happier. Or say Only by making enough money can I be happy, and reading more books won't make me happy. If you have this kind of narrative logic, you will probably think that going to the library is not important. Even though you already know what the function of the library is, but you think that reading is useless for you to make money in the current period, or it won't help your real life. When it's about the role of the director, he will think that it's not important Other cultural life, he will choose to go to exhibitions, for example Right? For example, to listen to concerts Because this thing is more bright and bright It brings happiness very directly The excitement of his "Doba" will be more direct Especially when you go to the exhibition, when you go to the concert You can also get a lot of feedback through taking photos or describing it on social media Maybe these will make people more willing to go to those places to gather But if you read a book in the library and take a picture of this book and post it on social media Maybe people will think you are a bit pretentious Yes, you know, last week I had an audience question in Ningbo and said this I didn't dare to read on the subway Because every time I read, people around me would give me the same kind of vision So I was forced to do nothing I just had to put the e-book in my phone and read it secretly on the subway That's why people didn't think I was a tears-jerker, I was safe Maybe that's the kind of admiration and praise Yeah, I love learning She said that every time I read on the subway, I was like a rare species I didn't dare to read This is a personal experience. In the past, I used to read about how the atmosphere of studying abroad is so rich. Everyone read books in the subway. Later when I went to study in New York, I found out why everyone read books in the subway. Because there is no signal. Is it one of the reasons? But overall, the atmosphere is still better. When I was in Seattle, I took my kids to see some art shows and dramas. We had to line up. The line was long, about 20-30 minutes. I found that many kids, like those 8-9 years old, they would just pick up a thick book and line up while reading. The wifi signal is pretty good there. Oh, hahaha. I remember another reason. This is not a fake news. This is what we observed objectively. Because when the text reading is the most developed, especially when the novel is read, the most audience is in the 19th century. At that time, the European cross-border rate was definitely over 50% And then Dickens and like this Tolstoy They were the big stars of the time But imagine because we were in the 19th century We have relatively low cross-border rates And then I looked at the statistics It's about 10% So if you want to catch up from that time, it seems like it takes time. Europe gradually grew up to be a habit of serious reading. It will have a inheritance, it will have an atmosphere. Yes, and in fact, a person's reading habits and lifestyle habits are actually imitating their parents at the beginning. If parents don't have this habit, then maybe children are really difficult to establish. Actually, there is one question that I think I want to discuss with Mr. Suqiu. Because you mentioned reading novels before. Because I usually do subway and sometimes bus travel, I found that there are actually a lot of people reading online novels. 就是可能地铁里30%人看短剧30%人刷小文书30%人看小说而且即便可能地铁特别的魔间接种大家还是会看小说看得如火如荼的你观察你发现他们是有一种共性的就是不管是短剧还是网文他有一种共性就是他让你特别放松的去读就不用特别费脑筋首先对吧然后还有就是他让你很爽 [Continue to talk about the show] It's like a love story, right? It's like that You'll find that it's a combination of your inner self and your fantasy It can help you realize it in this drama Actually, when you watch it, you'll think that the plot isn't real But it's just so cool It's unstoppable, right? And many online novels are full of words, and people can actually follow them. Sometimes I wonder if people like reading or not. How to say it, I think they like to be happy, not to be depressed. I feel like I've offended many of the online novel readers No, it's not that. There's nothing wrong with being happy I think there's another reason why there are fewer people reading books now It's because you're usually very tired in 996 Then you suddenly go back to watch a Kalamazov You'll think it's hard to turn the first page And then you think about the thickness and the difficulty You have to go back to the 100 years of loneliness You see the people repeating You think you have less energy left today Not enough to complete this complicated task So I feel like I've been trying for five years and I haven't seen it It's normal I have read less books these two years That's the reason. I play too much on my phone. Can you say that? Yes, yes, yes. I need to reflect on myself. I don't think that watching a short drama or a web drama will make me feel guilty. It's like I'm going to say that I'm going to be a judge. I'll say something. When I go home for a while, I will definitely pass by a fruit stall. The fruit seller, the man, he never left his phone. I could hear him playing the short-cut anytime. I even felt a little bit embarrassed. I thought, "Is he too immersed in this kind of not-so-high-class entertainment?" Then one day I suddenly thought, am I really that high-class? Am I not also always surfing Weibo? Isn't Weibo the same as the short drama "The Big Boss"? And these past few years I also feel that I have spent less time on my own, it's the same Because I think the library has dual attributes On the one hand, it provides us with a lot of books Which can provide us with reading and reading experience 或者我们的眼界我觉得另一种意义是在于它其实提供了一个能够让我们和自己独复的这样的一个空间因为图书馆默认的是大家尽量减少对不说话减少交谈所以我觉得直面自己的内心大家去图书馆难道是从头到尾都在读书吗肯定不会的但是哪怕你在那里放空那种可以和自己 I think it's good to be alone for a while But the problem is that in the public space of the library now, adults sit there all day Most of the time they are still studying They don't read books If the adults are not studying, they may leave after reading I don't know if you have observed such a phenomenon. I think this may be related to my fate with the library. After graduation, my first job was to be a reporter. At that time, I was actually sent to a local reporter station. Because I was young at that time, I didn't understand. I felt that the newspaper sent me to go wherever I went. Then after I went to work, I found that this job seemed to be 似乎没有特别大的前途我当时的工作常态是每周可能工作就两天然后剩下的时间就是觉得壮志难酬啊然后总觉得说生活不应该这个样子但是又不知道该怎么办当时东莞市图书馆距离我住的宿舍大概走路半个小时所以我基本上所有的闲散时间都去了东莞市图书馆 The library is quite famous now Yes, what attracted me at first was that there was a very big comic book on the first floor The comic books were very new I was very happy to read it because I was a second-year student since I was young If you go there often, you will be satisfied with reading comic books Then you can read some comics and literary works I found out that the outdoor reading room on the top floor was also very popular The books were all very new. Only the moonlight room provided a sofa. I stayed there very happily. So after so many years, I look back and think I'm still grateful for that time. Actually, I was very confused at that time. I didn't know what to do. But the library was like this. It embraced me. Later, I left there and after many years, Dong'an Library was famous. Especially the note written by the migrant workers. I don't know if you have seen that news. During the pandemic in 2020, a migrant worker went to Dong'an Library and returned his certificate of enrollment. In order to get the 100 yuan deposit, he took the book as a record. I came to Dongguan for 17 years, and read books here for 12 years. He said that only books are things that have 100 billion and have no regrets. But it's a pity that he has to leave here. Then the staff took a picture of his message, posted it on social media, and then it became popular. Everyone paid attention to his story, and found that he was very poor at that time. First of all, many companies provided him with work, and he became the ambassador of Dongguan Library. Then he stayed in another way and could continue reading. I was very touched when I read the news. I spent so much time in the library I know what kind of environment it is So she is a stranger who can come to this city at any time Right? She is indifferent to it She has no ticket Yes, she has no ticket And I am a person who never has a certificate of ownership I just look there I later thought 因为在当时你并不觉得这段时间到底你收获了什么但我现在回想我在那段时间大量的阅读很多好玩的书籍这些对于我的人生对于我后面的那种创作我觉得都是有很大的滋养的所以我特别特别感谢图书馆我是比较感慨就是现在由于出了这个书所以有机会去各个城市的图书馆去看一看参观学习我觉得印象比较深的是上海浦东的一个新馆 First of all, the architecture is designed by a famous designer, and the visual and aesthetic effects are very good. What surprised me the most was the text book section. I looked it up, and it's probably the same difficulty as the one in high school. There are a number of children's stories in English. 然后我看都是那种九岁十岁最后小孩在那看得津津有味就他们那边的介绍率也很高结果呢我又想到就是我们这里就是西安它是一个中部的算是一个大的城市我当时在建北京区图书馆的时候我也专门设了一个外文图书区但是那里的介绍率就非常低然后我又再往西部更偏远的地方走中西部的大量的一些乡村的图书史我也去过我不是说外文就是说 There is no book that is suitable for children to read There are many books that are For example, how to use the method of fertilizer, how to raise carp So I think the difference is so big From the eastern coastal region to the central western region 在我们小的时候总是听一个口号说一定要先富带动后富嘛那我现在其实觉得要先读也要带动后读就是我就特别想说东部的这种图书馆南方的好一点的图书馆是不是可以给西部有这样的一个对口的一些经验的分享不管说是书单的共享也好或者说是活动经验的一个共享可能中西部的图书馆甚至是小的图书室都会有一些改观 Recently, I received a call from a county governor in Inner Mongolia He said that he finished reading his book on the plane After I finished reading, I called our cultural director to come to my office He asked me if I could quickly change the books that are a little bit worse or less likely to be used in our library The county governor called me for about an hour that day He was very excited, he said he might have focused on some financial issues in the past Especially the reshuffle or investment in the business I also didn't care about cultural issues so much But when I saw this book, I realized that a city library, especially a county library 他其实关系到的是这个县的孩子们他未来怎么去建设这个城市的问题或者这个县的年轻一代的精神生活的问题他突然觉得这个事非常重要他说如果我们这个县的小孩没有一个好的公共图书馆大家都在刷手机或者看一些垃圾堵物中度过那么十年后他们就要来建设我们这个县城 what kind of people we will be built by. He suddenly thought of this question, and he said he was going to change the library. I was so moved. And then I thought there were still a lot of people who wanted to do things. So I just said that although our current reading atmosphere is still different from the reading atmosphere of developed countries in Europe and the United States, 但是我也没有那么悲观因为我觉得只要有很多想做事的人这个县长带着文化局长带着图书馆长去做事会变好这就是先读带动后读而且就是诉求老师你多出来分享分享确实也能够激励到很多人你刚刚分享让我想到上个月我去云南徒步旅游经过了非常非常小的一个小山村叫马平关 It was only open in 2009 and then opened in 2015. At first, I thought it was hard to imagine. But even if it was only a small village with dozens of households, especially the women inside, they organized a group of people who studied. They would call on their parents to study first, and then bring their children to study together. They think that if parents don't cultivate good reading habits, they won't learn first. It's actually very difficult for children to cultivate good reading habits. So they set up a group of villagers to study reading, and let parents bring their children to study. I saw a lot of English textbooks in their library. 我觉得太厉害了就像苏秋老师说的其实只要有人有心你愿意做事情你就是可以带动首先你带动你自己的家庭然后再带动一个小的环境最后再带动一个大的环境让整个就是说大一点这个精神文明建设的这个氛围会变得越来越好你刚才说的那个是民宿老板的你老板他自己做的还有一个是企业捐的我听说有这样的故事就是有些企业他会在乡村捐一个图书室刚开始农民不敢进来 When they come back from the field, they will say "this place is too clean, I don't want to come in" But those people will say "this is a free space, feel free" Gradually more and more people will come in, and they will organize activities to read more The farmers will actively participate I think that in social media, you will feel that people don't like to read anymore 书越来越难卖了 当然这也是现实但是在很多微观的角落里大家还是在做很多努力和尝试我不知道西安本地有没有这样你看到的还蛮好的现象西安本地有一些读书会他们做活动也比较踊跃前一段时间我有去一个律师宿所分享他们那里也会定期做阅读会或者说请一些作家来报告我就觉得民间有好多好多组织可能是我们不太了解的 Reading is indeed a good way. Because I usually have a lot of fights with my friends in publishing houses. I sometimes expose myself. I say that based on the quality of the books, based on the attitude of the author, everyone is not willing to read, this is a very reasonable thing. I also think that there are too many types of publishing items every year. Everyone wasn't really good at choosing, and if you choose a book and you get a thunder, you'll be disappointed and want to say you lost on the spot Yeah, because if you watch a short video, you can probably tell in 3-5 seconds if it's the type I like 但是你买一本书哪怕你只是在微信读的书上看免费的电子书你认真读了几十页发现不ok那种感觉确实是还挺难受的还有一个问题我觉得就是评价机制就一些书评人他会总是推一些可能跟他有利益往来的书你听信了他的话去看那本书你就会觉得受骗上当了就像有一些影评网站然后你一看那个电影他都是九分 It actually lost its meaning It's like a restaurant that's rated 4.9 out of 10 If everyone lies, then the evaluation mechanism is meaningless So on one hand, the author's book publishing company is objective in its quality of writing On the other hand, the book critics can speak out their opinions about a book in a serious and objective way I really admire this kind of person This is quite high requirements for the book critics First, he has to get out of the book critics' economy This way, you can guarantee the independence of the book. Because we don't know what kind of book is good or bad. We are more dependent on websites like Douban, which have reviews. What do you think about your experience with your book? I haven't read Douban for half a year. Why? I think when a writer writes a book, he may sometimes doubt himself. On the one hand, you may encounter some malicious comments, which will affect your mood. On the other hand, Overestimating the evaluation will also cause you trouble. - Really? - Yes. When you see so many "one-sided beauty" words, you'll think, "Oh, I'm not like that." You'll think that I've deceived the public. - They say that I'm... - A "common sense of the pretender." It's like everyone has been watching "Fishy Go" these past two years. So there are so many "one-sided beauty" words. My favorite is the most sincere evaluation. And it's written for a long time. It also says that the writer's structure is a bit problematic. And when she's connecting with this character, she can do more of that I'll be like "Wow, Donghang, I'm going to watch this kind of comment! I'm going to change my question next time!" Now I have to say that Doubao's score is still too high You think it's too high now? Yes, I hope it drops a little more And our family has Dorsun 我弟弟有时候给我打电话说姐我告诉你个好消息然后我说咋了你的豆瓣又掉了0.1分他说我觉得它正在趋于正常值大众正在变得客观这就像现在大家都不愿意去吃大众点心4.5分以上的餐厅大家都觉得3.5分才是最好的 So you don't have any moment where you feel like you're really good at writing? This isn't a sign of humble, I'm not really good at writing The things you see, like the easy, easy, and smooth parts of me I'm not like that I'm like a sleepy beast, walking around at home Not willing to sit at the computer and knock on the first line of words I thought to myself, I'll just eat a meat mooncake I'll eat a mooncake, and write it after I eat this mooncake But I still can't sit at the computer and write 就是非常焦虑那个时候是每个周都要给编辑交一点稿子的 Most of my time is walking around the house, looking for things to eat Because I'm afraid of facing the blankness of the text And then the house will become very clean No, I'm just very anxious Not like that So I don't think I have much writing talent The flow of what is presented may have been modified many times Do you have plans to write a second book now? This is the most feared question in the top of the list. Do you all have this curiosity? I'm so anxious. I was thinking if you go to do books related promotion activities or share There may be a lot of readers asking you to write suggestions. How can you put the topic you want to write Will there be such a problem if you write down the topic you wrote? Yes, but if I ask this question in my own class, I will say it more freely, "Ah, you didn't write well" or "How can you adjust?" But if I go out to do activities and meet readers, I think I have no right. I can be a teacher and teach people how to do it But I can also talk about my own experience What I would do when I can't write it Or when I have an interview and can't continue Or when I find that I can't write the information I picked up How would I deal with it And everyone learned to do homework I'll talk about how I deal with it And how to modify the text I'll give my own example Do you have a stronger sense of co-operation with the authors after publishing the book? You are so sharp. When I can't write, I want to say that I must be more forgiving when I publish the book. It's not easy to be a writer. Because I am a pure reader, right? Including my previous discussions with the publishing company, I think many books... I feel like the author didn't show it to me. I think he didn't intentionally use some gray words in his next life. Of course, this may be closer to him, for example, academic rules, or closer to the content he wanted to convey. But he really can't do it well. We don't even need to use the internet novel as an example. But on the other hand, we can see that some authors care a lot about this aspect, and they write in a very common way, but they are also criticized for not being professional enough, not serious enough. I don't know what you think about this question. I think a person's life habits and writing habits are very connected. If a person is willing to listen to other people's opinions If he is a good-hearted person He is also good-hearted when he writes books He cares about the level of communication with others Or if he is willing to listen to other people's opinions and modify them Then you will feel that he has a good sense of network He knows what kind of words the reader wants But for other people, if he is relatively It's not that open or harmonious. And it thinks that keeping oneself independent is very important. Don't be disturbed by the sounds of the outside world. So you will find that its lifestyle will be transmitted to the text. Of course, there are different interpretations in the text. For example, some people's text is very grey, but you think it's a wonderful maze. Or when you enter the building, you see its top, its window, its corridor You will feel that this is rich enough and requires you to spend time exploring Even though its door may only open a very small gap But some are not like this Some of them, when you enter, you will find that it is all plastic Or some... There are some people who are arrogant but don't have any real inner thoughts These two people might not care about what others think But some people think they are just being self-righteous And their inner thoughts are empty Some people think this deep-seated thought is worth your time to study Is there any book that you would like to recommend? Recently I read a book called "The Children of Sanchez" It's a non-suggestive topic The author has been following a Mexican family for several decades And then wrote a book. Where does this book look good? It's not like the average non-sophisticated writer who would write the third person name "he" Every chapter of it is written by the first person name of the family member So it's a bit like a negative story. Each chapter is me, but different people are talking. Where is this wonderful thing? He has a very close connection with this family. They have known each other for decades, and then they grow up together. He will see a person when he was a child. Then how to fight and fight in youth, how to steal things, how to get into prison. 然后怎么从监狱放回来?只观察不干涉然后你会看到他们那个社区由于是一个平民社区然后女孩子也很容易比如说未婚先孕啊、流产啊、被丈夫抛妻啊反复的结婚离婚啊然后陷入赤瓶的境地啊然后可能男孩子也会受到毒品的诱惑啊等等等等这个说得好看在哪呢?就是由于它是一个多声部的多视角的讲述你会发现在家庭的某一个重大事件 when it happens, everyone speaks differently. Some people are self-reliant, some are pushing their responsibilities. Some people are just waiting for this to happen. Some people are shocked by this and even change the direction of their lives. It's so beautiful. It's even better than TV dramas Ms. Su Xiu is very excited and excited She really likes it No, actually my best profession is live-streaming Really? I think at this time, you can say Wait, 321, go on the chain No, I like things when I say it I'm very excited You are talented in this area I want to say that everyone must follow A fixed show at the end of the year I will release good products I bought this year around December 30th every year And I will never post anything This means I didn't receive any money I really took the test seriously And I'm actually a farm product blogger Have you tried live delivery before? Yes When I was the deputy director of the Cultural Bureau Our cultural center needs to bring the products of Feiyi I was so excited I was very lucky to be the deputy director of the Cultural and Cultural Bureau. I feel very sorry that I got off the stage too early. After I got off the stage, I realized that so many deputy directors of the Cultural and Cultural Bureau were taking on the role of the director. It was so fun, I wanted to go too. Other than the role of the director, what other roles are there that we don't know? Or are there any that you are good at? I am good at one thing, but I can't perform here. What? What is it that we can't see? I don't have much talent, I don't know how to dance, I don't know how to draw, I don't know how to sing But I have a bit of a full-blown talent, which is learning dog barking To be honest, this is also my talent Really? I learned that very young dog barking 你学的是哪一种?我也是就我弟弟学的是那种老狗叫然后我们俩就经常在一起PK我还会学驴叫不是我们又跑题了当然你赢了我们就拉回来拉回来那我觉得我们再回到关于这个公共阅读空间的问题因为前面苏秋老师也讲了嘛比如说你不管是参观国外的以及你看浦东的觉得非常好的这样的一个阅读空间的设置 如果西安的公共业度空间还能有一些改善的话,你觉得它可以有怎样的一个改善?或者什么样是一个你理想的图书馆?我现在有一点想法,不一定对啊。因为我们现在图书馆,大多数人还是把它作为一个纸质图书,或者是纸质的文稿资料收集和节约的一个地方。 But I think that the media and the media have changed a lot. Can we also collect more media? Because we can't just understand the medium as a book. We can just understand it as a gathering place and a place to spread. 就无论这个知识载体是什么那以前呢我在华盛顿大学的时候我会发现那里图书馆比较便捷在哪呢就是我一进去办了这个借书证他就可以借三百本书就是一次性可以借三百本书然后呢他还有一个好处就是他可以去借那些 I was also doing a research project on film studies. So I had to watch a lot of films, those early films, but there were no resources on the Internet. So I went to the early film library there to find a DVD to watch. At that time I thought, this is really... A very good idea is that our current way of communication is that you see, except for reading books, you also listen to the universe, right? Then listen to the execution of small pubs and listen to a lot of podcasts. Then in our library, that is, in addition to being able to preserve books and audio materials, can we also have more creative ideas? For example, I was looking at a very good international theater resource store. It's more expensive for the year. If we can buy that, many people can enter the museum and watch some of the best theater resources and buy some exhibition rights for free. We can watch it online and wear VR glasses to watch many installation art exhibitions or art exhibitions if they can be realized in the museum. Or there is also We can recommend the most interesting bloggers and bloggers this week. The way of spreading knowledge must be diverse. I am thinking, there are fewer people reading novels now. Is there a reason why? Big games, especially single-player games, are replacing some of the features of the novel. I think it's possible. For example, you go to watch the game "Odessa" and watch "The He-horse Knight" itself. Or you go to play an assassin's note and find out that he has arrived on the island of Greece. Then you can talk to the assassin's note, right? You see, Parisian cinema always has to follow the assassin's note to fix it. Yes, and then I was thinking... 我们的图书馆里是不是也可以收藏比如说经典的一些游戏的剪辑让我们能够来到这那我觉得图书馆的人就会变得落意无君不是让他打游戏不是让他打游戏就是说我们这儿可以给你提供一个经典游戏剪辑你可以看到就是比如说每十年有哪些优美的游戏被制作出来然后里面的一些叙事片段我们可以去收集它为什么不去收集呢这不是我们这个时代的知识非常重要的一个组成部分吗 I think your brain is very good. Because we talked about it at the beginning. In fact, now people don't use the library much for public reading. Some people don't know what the library can provide us. Another part is that people lack imagination about the library. 因为我们还是在沿用以前的传统就是那我们就只提供书或者是一些比较高级别的图书馆会有一些多媒体的资料然后呢基本上每个图书馆的系统都很难用这就是大家对于图书馆的全部认识那如果我们把它定义为一个信息的集散地也许在18世纪19世纪图书馆它就是这个功能只是那个时候只有书 对,现在我们有了多媒体,为什么有了这么多不管是播客还是视频还是其他的为什么不能把它变成一个这样的汇集地呢这样每周不管是家长带着小孩还是年轻人自己想要去打发时间大家可以来看,比如说黑神话悟空的这个片段如果你家里买不起那个游戏,你可以来图书馆看一部分片段如果这个版权是OK的话对啊,就包括可以结合你前面说的up主如果这样的话,我觉得它可以大大提升图书馆对于大家的吸引力 就是给大家一个去图书馆的理由我觉得这个很重要对你会鼓励身边的人或者你的学生多去图书馆吗我会鼓励因为你不鼓励他们他们人都有惰性就会在宿舍不停的就是刷手机就度过去了我上课的时候会说啊 先哪些图书馆的馆舱比较好我也会告诉他哪些电子书的网站比较好然后哪些在地的书店比较好一般情爱会在一学期的开头就会给他们讲好 Can you give us a simplified version? Actually, there aren't that many bookstores in Xi'an, it's quite similar to what you just observed. I think that the bookstores are more comprehensive, and they are big, and there are more articles. I think it's easy to shop, and the books are more rich. Another thing is, if you have a preference for art books, SKP's mall upstairs, there will be an R/DV bookstore. But actually I don't have that many bookstores. Because I still buy books and go to the library more often. I used to go to Shentu more often. Shentu is pretty good. Shentu now has some lectures on weekends and very cheap private hobby training classes. I know some people who work in the library, in the activity department. They are working hard on these things. But sometimes they might promote it. 到达的人群不是那么精准所以可能这就得靠我们一方面是先读带动后读另一方面也要靠我们多多的宣传推广让大家了解在身边的这一些公共空间你可以获得什么样的资源和服务如果让苏秋老师你来做一个图馆馆长 What kind of library would you build? What kind of books would you keep? First of all, I don't think it's good enough to look back at the books in the Beijing area library. Because at that time, I was basically the only one who made it up. I found some friends to help me open a book list. And then these two years, I've met more independent bookstores. I also met more book readers. I will let them build books, which may be better than my original book list Also, I hope that there will be innovation in activities Traditional libraries may be doing activities related to reading If possible, we will invite the B-dan app to teach 对吧然后我们就是要请小宇宙的博主来讲课就是思路打开去做那些真正能够调动起你的读者兴趣的那样的活动然后你的图书馆跟群众之间的粘合度才会更好而且我觉得一本书尤其是那种阅读门槛稍微高一点的书如果能听到一些大家不一样的解读交流它其实也是一个能够增进大家阅读趣味的一个事情 If we combine the current AI-流 style of the language, it's like putting a prompt into it. Everyone is a big model. Everyone's life is different. What you've been through is different. What you get from this book is also different. So like our podcast, we often invite guests to share their understanding of some books. So I think in the future, we may do more similar programs. And then I hope to be able to cooperate more with some library. Let everyone come and do more.  I don't have any specific book to recommend, just share my recent book list. I was reading Su Tong's Good Weather a while ago. It's very thick, very thick, very thick. It's pretty good. It's about some death discussions. It's quite compatible with my recent life. I think it's pretty good. But I have a question to ask you two teachers Actually, I have a lot of books at home But I read all these books The probability of reading all these books should be about 50% So sometimes I think about whether I like reading books or I really like reading books 但是每当我有这样的疑问的时候我就又会觉得说我是否在对我自己的生活状态在做一个角色的定义我觉得我在反复试探我自己到底是一个什么样的是爱看书的人还是不爱看书的人所以总是在这种矛盾和焦虑当中在进行我的阅读的这个过程想问一下两位老师对这样的一种状态是怎么看的 In the previous two episodes of the "Little Bar" we interviewed Professor Liu Xin from Sichuan University. He is a famous professor of philosophy. We were in his study room, and he was reading books on both sides. I asked him, "Have you finished reading all these books?" He said, "How is that possible?" But he didn't think it was something that made him feel a little ashamed or anxious. He thought some people collected books, some people collected wine. The books are filled with wisdom from hundreds of years ago. So he thinks that I can collect these hundreds of years of wisdom, he thinks that this thing itself is very valuable. I think this is because you may have some higher expectations of yourself. For example, I just listened to you talking about The good thing about you is that you have a very strong ability to self-discovery. I think this ability can be used to both inner and external senses. For example, in studying this matter, you can reflect it to a certain extent. You can spend more time interacting with the outside world to observe and think. Then self-discovery will be relatively helpful to you. 我其实跟宇白老师的观点接近的因为我身边可能有一些学者酷爱买书你会发现他们家中的藏书可能往往会超过万册这样子那他也会说当然是永远不可能读完的这都特别正常所以呢我觉得当一个人的书远远超过了他的阅读量的时候其实有几种可能有一种可能是他想要把这个书作为一种炫耀或者装点门面放在家里让别人觉得我很有文化这是一种可能那另一种可能就是说 I think I will one day. But actually, it's your own space for yourself. It has a kind of extensibility, a kind of outlook. Or you're expanding your space of mind. You're full of possibilities. It's a kind of imagination. It's actually pretty good. OK, let's see if there are any other audience friends. Hello, I have a question. Because our library is divided into the public library and the independent library. The independent library is called a bookstore. I think in this modern cultural environment, the decrease of the independent library is not necessarily due to the shrinkage of the cultural market. Because when we see that we need it, we need to put it on the ground. Then I can't escape the problem of survival. So I would like to ask the first question of the two teachers is, as an independent library, how does it achieve profit? Ensure that it provides better cultural scenes and cultural services to the public in the case of survival. Then the second thing I want to provide is the perspective problem. For example, maybe someone in Shanghai goes to study, that young people, they study English, this is a cultural phenomenon. When we think about the factors that affect cultural phenomena, we consider whether the factors are related or cause-effective. So I think that in the discussion on that issue, it's not necessarily caused by the cause-effectiveness of different regions, but because its economic and cultural development levels are directly related. I think your speech is very logical, very suitable for recording and broadcasting I think it is also very good to supplement We have a data survey We found that the number of students in Zhejiang every year is the top three in the country And it is often higher than Beijing We were joking that Zhejiang became richer because of reading Or because of money, it is particularly fond of reading So you just said that it is really worth studying [Translating] 好像还没有涉及到书店这个范畴因为总觉得这个范畴好像很难取出特别好的例子然后希望有成功经验的书店店主听到这期播客上我们节目来分享一下经验我只能说仅从一个旁观者来观察我觉得很无奈的一点就是其实你会发现房租它决定了独立书店生存的下限它能不能生存下去有很多的独立书店它之所以能够 一直維持著運營它往往還是因為比如說那就是店主自己的房子或者是說對方給他提供了很多的空間以及我覺得這幾年我會看到另外一個方向就是有很多比如說房地產開發商或者是一些實業公司可能他們的管理層對文化氛圍很重視他們會在他們的樓盤配套有比較好的書店 and some other companies. For example, the bookstore near the roof of Hangzhou, the reading space, is actually for the residents of the service area. For example, the bookstore near Luhu, which we visited in Chengdu, is also a real estate development bookstore. I recently found a bookstore in a alley in Beijing. It is made by a business owner, mainly based on poetry. There are many activities in cooperation with the public account "Learn Poetry for You". So, as we said before, we see that many people are thinking about various solutions on the micro level. To create more reading space for everyone to share good reading experiences. Next, please. Hello, Ms. Liang. I have my own problem. I just read a monthly post on WeChat. I read 48 books last year, and now 35. But I have a problem. I have read a lot of books. I don't have many memories of it I feel like I don't know if I'm old or what I just forgot about it This is a big problem I have faced since I started studying I asked the two teachers if they had any I don't know if you care about this 你特别在意说我怎么忘了这个书就是你有这种焦虑的话那你解决这个焦虑的方法就是你可以开始一方面是做一些读书笔记还有就是你可以跟你的好朋友讲一次这个书你就不太会忘记但是这个也是费曼学习法当中的一种就你在意的话你就会去这样调整但如果你不在意的话其实没什么 Most of the books we read will be forgotten. Just like most places, the scenery, you won't remember every tree or every bird after you go there. But it was there, under the light, with you. And then during that time, whether you were relaxing or crying, or sitting and laughing with you, that period of time was enough for you. It's pretty good. (translating) If you feel tired of writing and reading, you can talk about it. If you can't get people around you, you can open a page for your own blog. You can say it, right? At the same time, you have a channel for output. And then another one is, I've always thought that a book or some knowledge you learn, you can't remember. It's because it's probably a little bit farther away from your life. For example, you read a novel, it has no close connection with your real life. It's normal for you to forget it. Because I think in your life, you must have your own interests, or some problems you want to understand. If this thing can affect your life, then maybe you can remember it as a little bit old. And if it can affect your life, it will naturally stay in your body and become part of you. This is my personal experience. The last question is from Mr. Su Qiong. Hello, I am very happy to be here. I often listen to the broadcast of "Age of Youth". I have two questions. The first one is about the works I often read, such as "Loneliness of a Hundred Years", or...  一種就是讀書好像很有好處另外一種就是說可能又會出現一種對立的就是說讀書好像沒有那麼神聖也沒有那麼有用然後我就會經常在這兩種觀點之間來回的撕扯來回的糾結然後我想聽一下兩位老師對這個的看法謝謝 The first question is... I can't read it either. Isn't it normal? I think letting myself go and facing my own reading level shows that the fate of this book has not yet arrived. When the fate arrives, you naturally continue to read it. And then another one is there was a program in our primary school that I think is quite suitable to answer this question. It's the first time I recorded that program with Zhang Yifan. "The Way of the Mongols" I asked him, many people want to know the number of books, for example, I have to read a lot of books every year, I have to stay in the library every day, etc. But it seems that reading these books, my life has not changed much. He said that it was because these books did not really have inner words. We have another guest, Eric, who said that there are not many reasons for a person to understand in his life. When you encounter some reasons that you think are very useful, then you will understand them and implement them in your life. 第一个问题我想说的是读书这个东西可能跟你选择运动一样可能它跟天生的秉附有一定关联比如说你的四肢的长度你的根腱等等 你的肌肉的爆发力等等有的人就是适合去举重 是吧有的人更适合去游泳有的人适合去打篮球等等那你读书的时候也是我认为跟天生有很大关系就是比如说你天生是一个更加偏直觉的人还是一个偏逻辑的人 You are a person who is very emotional, very sensitive, very easy to empathize with, or a person who is very big-minded. He/she has decided that when you encounter a book, what is your reaction? Maybe the reaction of others is very big, but you don't have any reaction. But when you encounter other books, you will think that this is my chosen book. So first of all, to accept this, this may have a lot to do with being born with it. Secondly, sometimes people need to set a little difficulty for themselves. For myself, before I was 20, most of my books were literary and fictional. And then I found out that there was a big problem. I lacked the basic knowledge of economics, and I didn't understand the changes in marriage, family, and women in human society, etc. My way of thinking is always too vague and vague. 就是从这一点出发,我开始有意识的可能去看社会学的书,看经济学的入门的书籍等等等等。就好像在调整去尝试不同的运动。但问题还是跟刚才这位一样,就是别太焦虑了,你可以慢慢的调整,但不要把这件事情给人自己造成的压力太大了。嗯,我又这里补充一点,刚才苏珧老师的分享,打开了我一个记忆的闸门, 在我来有志有行之前我也是那种非常文艺的青年就是看到经管书绕着走但是当时会选择有志有行也是因为我在想如果这个世界上绝大部分聪明人都在研究这个领域说明这个领域除了赚钱之外肯定还有很多很有意思的东西那就是我为什么不去尝试着去看看这类的书打破一下自己的边界然后从而选择了这份职业然后逼自己去看一些这种经管类商业的书籍然后发现它里面确实还挺好玩的  Today, I have a new feeling about the three words "student library". I used to think that the library is a symbol. It symbolizes knowledge, wisdom, and publicity. But after talking about it, I found that it is actually very personal. It's about how we get along with ourselves. How to get through those uncertain moments I often feel that people who enter the library Have an unwavering heart Maybe you don't know where the future is But as long as you are willing to go into the library It means you are still working hard Keep yourself in touch with the world I also believe that every city needs such a space It may not be a library, but it can be an old bookstore, or a street, or a program that is currently being broadcast. They are all reminding us that life is not only about efficiency and goals, but also about silence, breathing, and curiosity for the world. If you like these programs, and remember the story between yourself and the library, please leave a comment in the comment section and share it with us. Or if there is a place in your city that can temporarily ease your anxiety and be alone for a while. Your every message and every sharing is the motivation for us to continue our program. Finally, I would like to report a good news. Last month, Weibo posted a 2.0 version of Weibo. The biggest update this time is the official launch of the fund trading function. We didn't make a fund ranking list or recommend a hot spot, but focused on three things. We selected dozens of funds that fit our ideas from tens of thousands of funds. We redesigned the fund's product industry to make the information clearer and clearer. And we also introduced psychological accounts, so that investment can fit the goals of each of us. Now, 你可以在有知有行App的首页体验基金严选这个板块我们始终相信投资的意义不止于基金或者策略而是帮助我们通过安心投资过上更好的生活升级有知有行App到最新版本你就可以看到了希望你会喜欢这里是知行小酒馆我们关注投资更关注怎样更好的生活我是雨白我们下期再见