So one definition of intelligence is sample 
efficiency. That is to say, how much data do  
you need in a given domain to operate fluently 
and competently? And it's actually not clear  
that we've made that much progress in training 
sample efficiency over the last few years.  
It seems more like we've just dramatically 
widened and improved the data distribution. 
The main way that AIs have been getting 
better is from adding more and better data,  
and scaling the compute required to develop that 
data in the first place. Obviously, RL is the main  
way that this has happened. You can think of RL 
as basically a kind of synthetic data generation,  
where you dump a ton of compute against a 
verifier — or a rubric, if you have an LLM  
as a judge — in order to find out what the good 
data is in the first place. And then you train  
your model to predict these correct rollouts, 
much in the same way that you might train that  
model to predict the next word in internet text.
For this process to work, the model must have at  
least some prior probability of anticipating the 
correct solution in the first place, which is why  
you need mind-stretching amounts of human expert 
trajectories in every single field and skill that  
you want the model to eventually be competent in.
It's hard to overstate how task-specific and  
bespoke this human expert data is. If you want 
some intuition, I recommend checking out the  
job descriptions on Mercor or Surge's 
websites. There are listings for Word  
specialists who will convert legacy documents 
into polished Word files, and legal experts who  
will write realistic M&A diligence reports or 
securities filings, and management consultants  
who will write up template market research.
And it is not only that the data have to be  
so domain-specific, but there has to be 
so much of it. Each skill corresponds  
to at least hundreds of human experts who are 
generating example completions, writing rubrics,  
and explaining their chain of thought.
There's a reason that the data industry  
producing these expert labels, and the RL 
environments in which these meticulously  
cataloged skills can congeal, is earning billions 
a year in revenue, soon to be deca-billions. 
Now imagine if it took a couple decades' worth 
of courses with hundreds of concurrent professors  
and millions of practice tasks for you to 
learn how to polish a Word file. Even the  
task-count difference here understates the gap, 
because the models have to grind through their  
far more numerous tasks, each far harder.
Whereas a human student might practice a  
textbook problem once or twice, with GRPO, 
these models are generating hundreds to  
thousands of rollouts per task, and they need to 
do this to solve the credit assignment problem. 
The correct way to think about these models is not 
like a human who has learned all these different  
skills that you see the models displaying. It's 
more like a Frankenstein's monster that has been  
built out of a billion grafts of carefully 
constructed examples, all sewn together. 
Epoch recently reported that open models lag 
state-of-the-art frontier models by four months.  
I think the reason it is relatively easy 
for open source and previous laggards to  
catch up to within months of the frontier 
is that data is the real driver of progress. 
And data can be easily distilled from public 
APIs, whereas hyperparameters, training tricks,  
and architectural optimizations cannot. If 
the latter were driving most of the progress,  
then catching up would be far harder 
than we are observing it to be. 
It is easy to forget how much data these models 
are trained on, and how much more it is than what  
we humans see in our lifetimes. We see these 
AIs as a galaxy glittering with capabilities.  
But at their center, invisible to the naked 
eye, holding all the constellations together,  
is an unimaginably massive black hole of data.
I just want to make a couple points of  
comparison to illustrate just how big 
the sample-efficiency gap is. Here's one.  
If a person sees and hears on average, let's say 
generously, 2,000 words an hour, then between  
the time they're born and the time they're an 
adult, they'll see about 200 million tokens. 
Now, by contrast, these frontier models 
are trained on somewhere between tens to  
hundreds of trillions of tokens. That 
is close to a millionfold difference. 
Here's another point of comparison. If you 
wanted to, you could learn to teleoperate  
any random humanoid or robot arm within hours. 
And if we could get AIs to learn just as fast,  
robotics would be a deca-trillion-dollar industry, 
and you'd have an endless army of Unitree G1s  
doing all kinds of useful work in the world.
But the reason we can't do this is that our AIs  
learn much less efficiently than we do, and even 
with the millions of hours of demonstrations that  
we've collected, this is not enough to allow 
them to perform complex, open-ended tasks. 
And a final point of comparison: a teenager 
can learn to drive a car with about 20 hours  
of practice. And even if we include their 16 
years of growing up and understanding how the  
world works and building physical intuition, 
that is still three to four orders of magnitude  
less data than Waymo and Tesla are using 
to train their self-driving car models. 
Now I want to deal with a couple of common 
responses and objections that people have to  
these kinds of comparisons.
One thing people will say,  
and I think Karpathy said this when he came on 
my podcast, is that for humans, many billions  
of years of evolution had to go into basically 
pretraining us. And so we're being unfair when  
we're comparing how little data we see within 
our lifetimes to what these cold-started LLMs,  
which are just starting off with a totally 
random initialization, have to learn from. 
I think this is not the right way to think 
about it. Our genome is only three gigabytes,  
and only one to two percent of it is protein 
coding. There is simply not enough space to  
store the parameters of this network 
that evolution supposedly pretrained. 
I think the closer analogy is that evolution 
found the right hyperparameters and the right  
loss functions, and that within our 
lifetime, we are still building up  
the connectome in our brain from scratch. 
That is to say, the thing analogous to the  
weights and parameters of the neural net itself.
And even if you granted this comparison and said,  
"Yes, the hundreds of trillions of tokens these 
models see to get pretrained is similar to just  
catching up to evolution," that still doesn't 
explain why any new marginal capability that you  
want to give these models takes so much data.
Once you have been educated, again,  
you don't need a hundred different professors 
to teach you how to learn a new programming  
language. But these AIs, even once they're 
pretrained, still require enormous amounts  
of data to learn the next marginal skill, 
and the next marginal skill after that. 
Another objection to this kind of comparison 
is that we're not including the multimodal  
data that we're seeing in our lifetimes. So if 
we include all this sensory information that  
we see from birth to adulthood, that's probably 
tens to hundreds of billions of tokens of data. 
And my response to this objection is simply 
that blind or deaf people, who are cut off  
from parts of this sensory stream, still have 
general intelligence. That suggests to me that  
all these billions of sensory tokens are not 
really the thing that is making humans smart. 
In fact, deaf people who communicate through sign 
language and reading, and not through hearing, are  
probably ingesting far less than the 200 million 
language tokens that we ballparked earlier, which  
suggests that even the millionfold difference that 
we calculated earlier might be an understatement. 
Okay, the third common objection people make 
is that we just haven't scaled enough. We  
have these scaling laws. They tell us that 
bigger models are more sample efficient. 
The human brain, we know, is 
about 100 trillion synapses,  
and we have frontier models that are currently 
around five trillion parameters. So maybe we  
could just achieve human-level sample 
efficiency if we made these models  
one to two orders of magnitude bigger.
The reason this objection is off-mark  
is actually quite interesting. If you look 
at the way the scaling-law equations work,  
they tell you that the parameter and data 
terms are added to the loss independently. 
Suppose you have a model, and you've 
trained it compute-optimally, and you say,  
"I want to be sample efficient. I want to use 
as little data as possible, and I'll throw in as  
many parameters as necessary to make that happen."
Take the constants from the Chinchilla scaling-law  
paper. Even if you increased the number 
of parameters by infinity, that would only  
decrease by a factor of ten the amount of data 
that you need in order to keep the same loss. 
Humans are somewhere between thousands to 
millions of times more sample efficient  
than these models. So scaling the size of current 
models simply can't make up for that discrepancy,  
and this really does suggest that humans 
are on a different scaling curve altogether. 
Okay, all these nerdy comparisons aside, you might 
ask: why do we even care about sample efficiency?  
Is this actually necessary for the labs to 
achieve the two overarching objectives they  
have, which are, one, to automate white-collar 
work, and two, to automate AI research itself? 
The bet that the labs are making with white-collar 
work is that the common tasks that a software  
engineer or analyst or accountant needs to do 
are common, and as a result, you can bring them  
into the training distribution quite easily.
If you look at the revenue curves of these  
labs over the last few months, it does suggest 
that there's an enormous amount of value from  
bringing into distribution these kinds of 
common tasks, even if we can't replicate  
whatever is making human learning so special.
And it might be more inefficient to train AIs  
to do these kinds of tasks than it is to train 
humans, but so what? Human lifespan simply does  
not allow for the quantity and the breadth 
of training that these models experience. 
If you, as a human, had some weird learning 
disability where you needed to read through every  
public repository on GitHub before you could be a 
competent software engineer, then it would simply  
not make sense to train you up. You'd be on Social 
Security by the early stages of your education,  
and even once you were trained, you would 
only be able to work on one project at a time. 
But AIs can learn these skills by firehosing 
gigawatts of training at a time, and what they  
learn can be amortized across billions of sessions 
at once. So we can be ludicrously inefficient in  
training them up and still be wildly in the green.
And then there's a question of how much  
out-of-distribution thinking white-collar 
employees need to do that you simply can't  
train for in advance. This is more a question 
about the nature of different jobs than it is  
a question about AI research, and it also 
depends on which job you're talking about. 
Some jobs are so mechanical and predictable 
that we were able to automate them long before  
the modern era of AI, for example, bank tellers 
or travel agents. But there are other jobs that  
require dealing on a daily basis with problems 
that are quite distant from the data distribution. 
I think software engineering is probably one such 
job. This is the job that AIs are supposed to  
take first, but I would be willing to bet that 
there's overall more demand for human software  
engineers in 2028 than there is right now, 
largely due to the complementary input of AI. 
The labs' plan for this latter category of 
jobs is first to automate AI research and  
then have the automated AI researchers 
solve the sample-efficiency problem. 
So then the question is: can AIs, which 
do not have human-level sample efficiency,  
nonetheless solve the remaining research 
problems that stand in the way of  
human-like intelligence and learning?
This is a very complicated question,  
and I'll have to address it in a much longer 
future blog post. But just to tease it a bit,  
I think that the way people currently think about 
an intelligence explosion is very clumsy, because  
either people dismiss the possibility of AIs 
speeding up AI progress altogether, or they assume  
that some kind of God pops out the other end.
They don't reason carefully about what it  
looks like to have a period where AI 
progress is much faster than usual,  
but to have that happen on top of LLMs and the 
particular kind of intelligence that LLMs are. 
But I'll save that for next time. In the 
meantime, if you want to read this blog post,  
or all the other blog posts I write, or be alerted 
when I write a future blog post, go sign up for my  
newsletter at my website, dwarkesh.com.
All right, I'll see you later.