Recently, a "Taiwan Revolutionary Communist Party" has emerged in Taiwan.
Claiming to be a Trotskyist organization
The aim was to overthrow the ruling class of the Republic of China.
The news sparked heated discussions across the internet.
Some people worry that this is a spy sent to Taiwan by the Chinese Communist Party.
Mainland Affairs Council spokesperson Liang Wen-chieh even made a statement.
I discovered that the Taiwan Revolutionary Communist Party is a Trotskyist organization.
Trotskyists have been purged and arrested by the CCP for a long time.
Therefore, it has always been regarded as a thorn in the side in the history of the Chinese Communist Party.
Therefore, in my view, this organization is unlikely to become a local collaborator of the CCP.
What exactly is communism? What is Marxism?
Is contemporary China the communist country Marx described?
The best way to understand communism is to look at what Marx said.
In today's episode, we'll talk about...
Marx's theory of communism
Karl Marx was born in 1818 in the German town of Trier.
He started working as a newspaper reporter at the age of 24.
Initially, Marx actually advocated democracy, not communism.
He even once advocated for freedom of the press.
He criticized the Russian Tsar and had his license revoked by the Prussian government.
Why did Marx, a proponent of democracy, turn to communism?
The political liberation movement in Europe at that time aimed to expand suffrage.
Originally, only men with property were eligible to vote.
Laborers who are gradually becoming propertyless can also vote.
But Marx gradually realized that political emancipation alone was not enough.
Because even if ordinary people can participate in democratic voting
Their living conditions won't improve.
Why?
Because the basic necessities of life—food, clothing, housing, and transportation—are all capitalist economic activities.
Therefore, political democracy alone is not enough.
Even the economy needs to be democratized.
This led him to turn to communism.
In his early work, the Paris Manuscripts, Marx
The first definition of communism was that it is a humanitarian principle.
The human desire for freedom is suppressed by capitalist society.
In order to achieve the all-round development of human beings, the system of private property must be abolished.
This is communism.
Here we need to first clarify what private property is.
Many people confuse "private property" with "personal property".
Private property refers to "capital used by individuals to employ others."
If you have tens of millions in your account, these are all your personal assets.
Only when you use those tens of millions to start a company and hire people to work...
Only then does it become private property, that is, capital.
Therefore, many people believe that communism is about robbing the rich to help the poor.
This is a misconception.
Communism aims to change the system of private property.
Instead of dividing up your personal property
So why is private property a problem?
Isn't it good that capitalists provide capital and create jobs?
At that time, the British Industrial Revolution was taking off in the 19th century.
The GDP of the entire society is rising rapidly, shifting towards a commodity society.
In this process, the capitalists profit the most.
But the workers' lives became even more miserable.
Marx proposed a famous "theory of alienated labor" in his early years to explain this phenomenon.
He believes that the ideal working situation should be
When I see the products I produce
It's like seeing a manifestation of my own personality.
Therefore, the more I work, the more I get to know myself.
At the same time when others are using my product
My uniqueness can also be seen in the product.
In this way, I will feel double the happiness.
It allows me to realize my own individuality while also making others feel satisfied.
For example, when a chef cooks, on the one hand, he showcases his culinary skills.
Showcase your unique characteristics that set you apart from other chefs
On the other hand, it also makes the eaters feel satisfied.
? ? ?
But in capitalist society
Laboring but not being able to make others see you
There's no way to satisfy others.
Because our work is alienated
What is alienation?
It's something that should clearly belong to me.
But it became an existence different from me.
They left me, and even turned against me.
For example, employees in the company cannot decide what to do.
Instead, it's the boss who decides what you should produce.
This leads to many times when I don't actually want to do it.
But the boss forced me to do it
So the products produced
It doesn't reflect my personality at all.
This is a form of alienation.
Another situation is...
The products produced by laborers belong to the capitalists.
Therefore, capitalists have absolute control.
This creates a strange phenomenon.
Sometimes you are clearly the creator
However, they cannot use their own products.
For example, the creations of many performing artists
The copyright belongs to the agency.
This resulted in them not having company authorization.
Can't I sing my own compositions?
They might even be sued by the company.
This is a form of alienation.
It was clearly the result of my own hard work.
It actually became a force against me.
But why would capitalists do this?
Because capitalists have only one goal.
It means accumulating more capital.
Earn more profits
Instead of making workers feel self-actualized and accomplished.
Therefore, the capitalist system inevitably leads to alienated labor.
Communism, in essence, is about transcending this state of alienation.
Therefore, Marx said, "Communism is not a goal of development."
You don't need to pursue turning society into a communist society.
Instead, we should strive to eliminate alienation in society.
The less alienated labor a society has
The closer it is to communism
The world's least alienated labor
It is a high-welfare country in Northern Europe
They used collective bargaining by labor unions and tax redistribution as methods.
Take back the alienated parts of the labor force.
If a country claims to be a communist society
But forced laborers to work
alienated labor
That's not the communism Marx wanted.
Marx's theory of alienation
Actually, it was inspired by a philosopher of that time, Feuerbach.
Feuerbach believed that religion was a form of alienation.
Because God and God are concepts created by humans.
But after it was created
It has become an existence independent of humans.
Moreover, they turned around and enslaved humanity.
People should kneel down before God
God becomes a being greater than man.
Marx used this theory of alienation to explain capitalism.
Capitalism is very much like a religion
Laborers are believers
The company has been producing products to support it.
But the more he produces, the less he owns.
Because these products are the property of capitalists.
Therefore, workers may mistakenly believe
Capitalists are the ones who create social wealth.
And unaware
In fact, all the wealth in society is created by laborers.
The same
In theology
There are many words used to describe God.
Like love, justice, and compassion
These are all just ideal qualities that humans desire.
It's just because it's unattainable in real society.
Only then do they conjure up a paradise or an afterlife to satisfy themselves.
Therefore, theology is not actually about studying God.
Instead, they are studying human beings themselves.
The secret of theology is anthropology
Marx's theory aims to shift the focus from heaven to earth.
To criticize why humanity is so painful
This makes humanity yearn to alleviate suffering through religion.
And the root of this suffering
It is capitalism
This is why communism is atheistic.
Because Marx believed
Religion arises from human self-alienation.
When humans no longer feel alienation
There is no need to pin our hopes on liberation in the next life.
Religion will naturally disappear.
Therefore, what communist society needs to do is eliminate alienation.
Instead of suppressing religion
If a society deliberately suppresses religion
It is not the communism that Marx spoke of.
In his early years, Marx conceived of communism from a philosophical perspective.
But by 1848
Marx began to think about communism from the perspective of political reform.
Because various revolutionary movements were occurring in Europe at that time
Groups that support communism
One of the most famous is called Justice League.
Uh, not that Justice League.
This alliance commissioned Marx and Engels to draft a program.
This program later became the Communist Manifesto.
This declaration was later translated into more than 200 languages ​​worldwide.
Even Cheng Li-chun, the Vice Premier of the Executive Yuan, once said that this was his favorite book.
What exactly does The Communist Manifesto say?
Here, Marx put forward a set of historical materialism.
He said if we look at past human history
We will then discover a pattern
The development of a society
It largely depends on the level of technological productivity.
The use of workshops would bring about a feudal lord society.
The use of the steam engine will bring about a society of industrial capitalists.
Capitalism is the fastest driving force in human history to promote technological productivity.
Therefore, Marx actually praised the technological progress brought about by capitalism.
This is the advantage he believes should be preserved.
But at the same time, he also saw the shortcomings of capitalism.
It is in the process of globalization
Markets around the world have been forced to open
Economic development
It disrupted the original social order
Society as a whole has become divided into two classes
Bourgeoisie vs. Proletariat
Here's an explanation of what the bourgeoisie is.
Many people believe that having a large amount of money in the bank means being a member of the bourgeoisie.
But the bourgeoisie is defined as those who control the means of production.
Such as controlling companies, factories, land, and technology patents
That's what the bourgeoisie are all about.
If you only have a few TSMC shares
However, they did not control TSMC's production tools.
You are not a bourgeois
Because you need to master these things
Only then can you hire workers to help you with production.
This is what leads to exploitative relationships.
If you were a capitalist with a conscience
Control the tools of production without exploiting your employees
In Marx's view
Your company will eventually be eliminated by market competition.
Because companies that exploit their employees can keep costs even lower.
Therefore, Marx said that the bourgeoisie is necessarily the exploiter of the proletariat.
After pointing out the advantages and disadvantages of capitalism
Now Marx said something quite astonishing
The possibility of achieving communism
The advantages and disadvantages of capitalism are hidden within them.
Because, on the one hand, capitalism creates vast wealth and advanced technology.
But at the same time, it also facilitated communication and exchange around the world.
Exploited laborers around the world
You will gradually realize
Although they are in different countries
Yet they all live the same life of corporate slaves.
At this point, class consciousness will replace national consciousness.
There were no Americans, Indians, or Germans.
We are all exploited working class.
Therefore, Marx said: The worker has no country.
This is where capitalism differs from the feudal and slave societies of the past.
Although there was oppression in ancient society
But only capitalist oppression is international.
Therefore, it created a universal class that transcends nationality.
As long as capitalism continues its endless exploitation
When global workers had nothing
They felt they had nothing to lose.
They will take to the streets to revolt.
And when workers around the world unite
That is when communism is about to be realized.
Therefore, Marx said: "Capitalism has created its own gravediggers."
It means
anti-capitalist forces
It was actually created by capitalism.
It is inherent in this system.
As long as capitalism continues to exist
Anti-capitalist forces will continue to exist.
These two are mutually reinforcing and mutually restraining.
At that time, during the European revolutions of 1848
Marx thought to himself
The communist revolution is about to be realized.
Therefore, he listed 10 points as the practical program of communist society.
First, abolish land ownership.
The second implementation of a high progressive income tax
Third, abolishing the right of inheritance.
Fourth, confiscate the property of the rebels.
Fifth, concentrate credit power in the hands of the state.
The sixth point is that the communications and transportation industries are concentrated in the hands of the state.
Seventh, the state controls the factories and develops the land according to the state plan.
Eighth, to achieve universal labor obligations.
Ninth, the population should not be overly concentrated in cities; the urban-rural gap should be reduced.
The tenth measure is to implement free compulsory education and prohibit child labor.
We will find several points mentioned here
In fact, this has already been achieved in most countries today.
Such as progressive income tax, reducing the urban-rural gap, implementing compulsory education, and banning child labor.
These are things we take for granted today.
In fact, it was won through past socialist movements.
We are able to enjoy relatively good treatment and working conditions today.
If you could travel back in time to the 19th century
You might die from overwork after working for a short time.
However, when the socialist movement of the 19th century needed to limit working hours...
At that time, many people also spoke out.
This communist utopia is too idealistic to be realized.
However, labor laws in most countries around the world now stipulate maximum working hours.
Therefore, the capitalist society we live in
In fact, it has already absorbed many communist elements.
Instead of pure capitalism
In addition to the above ten guidelines
Marx also set a principle for communism
In a true communist society
The free development of each individual is the prerequisite for the free development of all.
What does this seemingly mysterious statement mean?
Marx believed
True freedom is
My development will also contribute to your development.
This is very different from the freedom we usually imagine.
Freedom isn't about doing whatever I want.
Because Marx believed
Humans are essentially social animals.
We need the help of others.
Only then can we truly achieve what we want to do.
Therefore, freedom is not individual but social.
Philosopher G.A. Cohen once used a jazz band as a metaphor for this kind of freedom.
Each musician during the performance
Everyone is free to create impromptu works.
This kind of improvisation allows musicians to satisfy their senses.
But at the same time
His free playing also resonates with the other members of the orchestra.
Others will also improvise.
So a jazz song
It won't be because of any one person's freedom
And hindered another person's freedom
On the contrary
When I achieve my free development
I also promoted the free development of another person.
This is the communism that Marx envisioned.
The whole society is like a giant jazz orchestra.
Everyone can realize their own uniqueness
Moreover, while expressing freedom
It also enhances other people's freedom.
Instead of infringing on the freedom of others
In Marx's mature work, *Capital*
He offered a more detailed critique of the contradictions of capitalism.
In this book
Marx was like a scientist
To find out the operating rules of capitalism
First, he analyzes capitalism.
How did they generate such huge profits?
Marx proposed a theory of "exploitation of surplus value".
Surplus value means
The value of your labor
Deduct your actual salary
This extra part
It's the profit that capitalists take away.
What are some methods capitalists use to exploit surplus value?
The crudest way is to extend working hours.
Please work overtime.
But I'll pay you the same salary.
However, human physical strength has its limits.
People always need to rest and sleep to restore their physical strength.
Therefore, capitalists must find other methods.
To extract more value
A more efficient method
Technological innovation
Let's say you used to be able to write one piece of copy for the company in a day.
However, after the emergence of AI technology
You can produce 10 articles a day.
That's equivalent to productivity increasing tenfold.
But your working hours haven't changed.
I still have to stay at the company all day.
If calculated by productivity
You used to only need to produce one article
With the help of AI
The company should let you leave work after you produce one article.
However, the company still maintained the same working hours.
So those times that can be saved
Actually, it was stolen by capitalists.
Marx said
capitalists' profits
In fact, it stems from theft during working hours.
The boss is the real pay thief
This is why capitalists have a greater incentive to pursue technological innovation.
Not for the benefit of humanity
Rather, it was to extract more surplus value.
However, Marx discovered that capitalism has an inherent contradiction.
In order to earn more surplus value
Capitalists will continuously produce goods
Products will eventually be overproduced.
Profit margins will actually decrease
Caused an economic crisis for capitalism
This crisis is cyclical.
Even after this crisis is resolved
I'll come again in a few decades.
Therefore, Marx said that the problem with capitalism is not its immorality.
Rather, it is irrational.
An economic crisis seems to occur every now and then.
Marx believed that the root of this irrationality was...
It is a form of commodity fetishism
This is not to say that people in capitalist societies are all materialistic or worshipful.
The term fetishism
Originally used to describe how people in primitive societies believed that "things" possessed their own divine power.
Belief that divine power might suddenly bring disaster upon humanity
This is a supernatural force that humans cannot control.
Similarly, in capitalist societies, laborers cannot collectively control the production process.
Their production must meet market demand.
Therefore, commodities seem to possess their own power to regulate human economic behavior.
People also habitually refer to them as market mechanisms, the law of supply and demand, and various other names.
They seem to be an independent force external to humanity.
But when we talk about these products
We are actually talking about goods produced by humans.
Marx believed that this was the core problem of capitalism.
It's not just about exploitation.
Instead, they were exploited and believed it was caused by some inhuman force.
Such as poor economic conditions and market mechanisms
These languages ​​all mask the exploitative relationships between people behind them.
This results in a collective ignorance among the masses.
Each time a periodic crisis of capitalism occurs
No one knew how the crisis suddenly happened.
Therefore, the communist movement is somewhat like a second enlightenment plan.
To make modern people aware
They were actually just as superstitious as the ancients.
Their superstition is called capitalism.
besides
Marx also pointed out another contradiction of capitalism
He just loves to claim that he's the most efficient person.
However, its organizational structure actually severely suppresses human capabilities.
For example, in order to improve production efficiency
Companies will adopt a division of labor
This forces workers to develop only one skill.
Sacrificing other abilities
Therefore, Marx said
The worker has become a mutilated monster.
In capitalist society
Every person is imperfect.
We can only do one job or one industry.
And unable to become a complete person
Capitalism appears efficient
But if you look at it from the perspective of human development
It's actually very inefficient.
If you often feel
I am unable to achieve my ideal career plan
Life seems to be missing a piece.
Incomplete
That's actually a very normal feeling.
Because capitalism only allows a portion of humanity to develop.
Therefore, Marx said
The division of labor led to the further fragmentation of humanity.
What communism aims to surpass
It is this state of being dismembered
Achieve the all-round development of humankind
Therefore, in a communist society
The division of labor is gradually disappearing.
No one is confined to a specific job.
Instead, you can follow your own interests.
Do this today
Do that tomorrow
Marx's own description is
"Hunting in the morning, fishing in the afternoon, herding livestock in the evening, and engaging in philosophical critique after dinner, but without needing to become a hunter, fisherman, or philosopher." - *The German Ideology*
It can almost be said that in a communist society
Everyone is a slash youth
Besides the division of labor
Marx further criticized capitalist exploitation.
Not just workers' wages
Instead, it steals the free time that workers should enjoy.
Why do humans work?
It should be about giving people more free time.
This was a progressive view commonly held by 19th-century Enlightenment philosophers.
The harder the older generation works and the higher the level of civilization they raise...
The next generation can work less and have an easier time
Gain more free time
Therefore, Marx said
"A nation is truly wealthy when the working day is six hours, not twelve." - Grundrisse, *Outline of a Critique of Political Economy*
True wealth
It is time that people can use freely.
Only when people are freed from work
That's what freedom is.
The premise of free development
It means having free time.
You will definitely ask
No one needs to work
How can society continue to function?
Marx believed
When society's technological productivity is sufficiently advanced
Many things can be done by machines.
Humans will have more freedom and leisure time
Able to develop one's own abilities
People in communist societies still have to work.
However, their working hours will be reduced to a minimum.
Because of the technological development of capitalism
You can delegate many tasks to machines.
People can then only do things that give them a sense of accomplishment.
Self-actualization work
Therefore, Marx's ideas are very dialectical.
He's not saying all capitalism is bad.
Instead, it means preserving the good aspects of capitalism.
And transcend the negative aspects of capitalism
The high technology brought about by capitalism actually laid the foundation for a future communist society.
Therefore, communism is not the "opposite" of capitalism, but rather what comes after it.
The more developed capitalism
The more likely communism is to be realized in the future
In fact, as early as Marx's time...
He had already foreseen this possibility.
Many workers' cooperatives emerged in Britain during the 19th century.
Driven by Robert Owen, a philanthropist who supports socialism
Because his family is very rich.
He bought a piece of land and started a cooperative.
Cooperatives are labor-organized autonomous organizations
Joint control of production tools and land
Every worker can vote democratically.
To decide what to produce and how much to produce.
Unlike in capital enterprises
It is decided by shareholders and capitalists.
The profits of these cooperative factories
Sometimes even more advanced than capitalist enterprises
At its peak
The number of cooperatives in the UK is as high as 100,000.
Therefore, many people believe that Marx advocated violent revolution.
......
But in fact
Marx's vision of communism
It is to make a social enterprise
Gradually shifting from a capital enterprise to a cooperative business model
Marx called this a "association of free individuals".
He even believed that this alliance
In fact, these conditions were created by capitalism.
Because capitalist enterprises have brought together workers who originally lived in various places to large cities.
When everyone is in the factory or office
You'll find that your situations are quite similar.
We are all exploited corporate slaves.
In the workplace
Everyone would then join in criticizing the boss and how unreasonable the company's policies were.
At this time, workers are more likely to develop class consciousness and unite.
Therefore we can say
Capitalism has facilitated labor relations.
That's when forces against capitalism emerged.
Therefore, Marx's critique is not a moral critique.
He did not uphold some moral ideals
Discussing the good and bad of capitalism
They all exploit laborers
His criticism is actually an internal criticism.
This means pointing out that capitalism, in order to develop productive forces
On the contrary, it created many conditions
Let workers unite
Conversely, overthrow capitalism
Therefore, this inherent contradiction is created by capitalism itself.
Capitalism contains within itself a power that transcends itself.
March 1871
France witnessed a revolutionary experiment that came closest to communism.
French workers created the Paris Commune
All the factories in Paris at that time were turned into cooperatives
Overtime work is prohibited at night
Managing national production according to a common plan
Marx believed
This experiment marks a completely new starting point of world historical significance.
This reflects Marx's understanding of communism.
It is not a centralized system
Instead, it is a decentralized model.
However, this experiment only lasted two months.
It was brutally suppressed by the French authorities.
20,000 people were executed
After the failure of the Paris Commune experiment
In his later work, *Critique of the Gotha Programme*, Marx...
We began to think about how society should move towards communism.
Marx believed
To turn to a communist society
It needs to be divided into two stages.
Phase 1
That is, at the beginning of the transformation
A "dictatorship of the proletariat" will be needed.
Dictatorship sounds like a one-man rule or autocracy.
But Marx was referring to
The entire proletariat makes collective decisions to replace the state.
Just like the Paris Commune
It is a democratic majority decision
However, Marx did not explain the meaning of this word in detail.
This led to the communist regimes of later generations.
This word is used to justify the rule of dictatorship and totalitarianism.
Marx believed that during the initial transition period
Society will inevitably retain many traces and ills of capitalism.
Therefore, the division of labor will still exist in society.
People's work will be distributed according to their work.
Rewards will be given according to the labor you have put in.
This is because it is a practice that capitalist workers are more accustomed to.
This stage is what is known as socialism.
Socialism refers to the intermediate period between capitalism and communism.
But in the second stage
The division of labor will gradually disappear.
There will no longer be people who only need to use their brains.
Some people's jobs only require physical labor.
Social production will be based on a principle
It means "everyone does their best and gets what they need".
"Each to their own ability" means
More capable people are willing to do more things.
The meaning of "each to their own" is...
Those who need it can take more products.
This sounds like a perfect utopia.
But in fact
We have all experienced this communist principle long ago.
Think about it.
How are meals and housework divided at home?
No one will bring the principles of a market economy home.
You won't say, "Mom cooked today."
The more you eat, the more money you have to pay.
Usually it's who wants to eat what
People would then let him eat more.
This is a matter of mutual benefit.
And when doing housework
Everyone will do what they are good at.
This is about each doing their best.
in other words
Every family operates in a way that is essentially communism.
Anthropologist David Graeber called this "everyday communism".
The problem is simply that
How can we extend this principle from the family to the whole society?
Marx's views in his later years were
There is no single principle for transformation.
Because different societies have different ways of transitioning.
For example, in Britain, the United States, and the Netherlands at that time...
Marx believed that workers could promote revolution through peaceful means.
But in Germany
If we had not experienced a revolution
It would be impossible to escape the military autocracy.
In some areas
Marx would also support violent revolution.
For example, Ireland was subjected to British colonial exploitation at that time.
Irish independence activists were forced to resort to violence in their struggle.
Marx also told the International Workingmen's Association
Supporting Irish independence is the most important thing right now.
In the years before Marx's death
His thinking on communism underwent a shift.
At that time, revolutionaries emerged in the Russian Empire seeking to overthrow the imperial system.
However, Russia at that time was still an agricultural society.
Did not experience the Industrial Revolution
According to Marx's theory
Communist revolutions can only occur in the most developed capitalist regions.
Like Britain and France at that time
Therefore, Russian revolutionaries wrote to Marx and asked him questions.
After the Russian Revolution overthrew the emperor
Is it necessary to go through industrialization first?
Only then can we turn to a communist society.
This issue is very important to Russians.
Because at that time, many regions in Russia still retained the system of rural communes (Obshchina).
This type of commune was based on shared land.
Farmers' collective self-governance
Like a small-scale communist society
However, if Russia wants to develop capitalism first...
This means dissolving these communes.
Transform rural areas into industrial economies
Hearing about this special situation in Russia
Marx immediately began learning Russian.
To gain a deeper understanding of Russia's primitive communism
When he was doing research
I came across the works of anthropologist Lewis Henry Morgan by chance.
Discover the communism he envisioned
Surprisingly, it resembles the social organization of the Iroquois, a Native American tribe in North America.
The Iroquois tribe has no private property and shares land.
Moreover, everyone considers defending the other's freedom as their own freedom.
Everyone upholds the spirit of freedom, equality, and fraternity.
This led Marx to begin a new way of thinking.
Could it be the communism he pursued?
It is actually something that humans once possessed.
But life was later utterly destroyed by capitalism.
Therefore, before his death, Marx...
He wrote a letter to the Russian revolutionary Zasulich
Let me talk about my past theories
These can only be used to explain the situation in Western European society.
Because Western Europe had already embarked on the path of capitalism.
There is no turning back.
But societies outside Europe
If the original form of communism is still retained
That could be the starting point for future communism.
This can be considered a major theoretical shift for Marx before his death.
He no longer believed that society had to be ravaged by capitalism first.
Only then can we move towards communism.
Because Western societies rely on large-scale exploitation and colonization
Only then did high technology develop.
Other societies don't need to repeat the mistakes of history.
Instead, it can directly introduce Western technological achievements.
At the same time, it preserves the communist forms of rural and indigenous societies.
Marx did not say that we should go back to living the rural, indigenous life.
Rather, it means that communism will come after capitalism.
To revive the equality and freedom that humanity once possessed at a higher level.
This episode introduces the four periods in which Marx conceived of communism.
Marx in his youth believed
Communism is a society that eliminates alienated labor.
In The Communist Manifesto
He believes that communism has ten principles.
Many of these have already been realized in contemporary capitalist society.
Marx during the period of Capital
The belief that capitalism inherently contains a power that transcends itself.
Because it laid the foundation for high productivity
This allows society to transform into a union of free individuals.
Therefore, communism is not the opposite of capitalism.
Rather, it is the back of capitalism
In his later years, Marx believed that
The communist forms preserved in peasant societies and indigenous societies
It is also worth learning from.
It can serve as a model for future communism
We will find that no matter what stage
Marx rarely explained what a communist society should look like.
Instead, they focused more on criticizing the oppression caused by capitalism.
Marx also rarely discussed how society should function after a revolution.
This has caused many problems in the future.
Because Marx did not explicitly state it.
Therefore, many communist regimes in the 20th century turned into dictatorships.
They can continue to proclaim themselves as communists.
This led to communism being equated with dictatorship.
So in the next episode, we'll introduce...
How did Marxism develop after Marx's death?
Why do so many communist revolutions ultimately lead to autocracy and centralized power?
Did the Soviet Union and the CCP represent communism as described by Marx?
Furthermore, how should we think about communism in the 21st century?
If you want to know more about Marx's philosophy