 Today, I'm going to start by giving you an
 oversimplification of two fundamentally human
 things that Generative AI will never be able to
 do, followed by a quick description of why that
 matters. Then. after the intro, I'm going to
 spend the rest of this video defining terms,
 going into
 detail, providing supporting evidence, talking
 about how the AI companies are trying and
 failing
 to fake those traits, explaining the future
 implications, giving you further resources, and
 stuff like that. Here's the takeaway: Generative
 AIs cannot Learn, and they cannot Prioritize.
 Every single responsive human being can do
 those things. We are literally born able to
 learn new
 things and reliably prioritize a more important
 goal over an existing one. But Generative AIs?
 No clue, and no chance. And it shows, as I'll
 discuss later in the video, missing these
 causes
 many of the AI failures that we've seen in the
 news lately. Understand, this is not a surprise.
 The AI companies know this, they've known this
 all along, and yet they're trying to get you
 to believe that the AIs can replace human
 workers. And more importantly, they're trying
 to get your
 boss to believe that. So would you hire someone
 who couldn't learn or prioritize? Would you
 want
 to work with somebody like that? Do you think
 the AI companies would hire a human that couldn't
 learn or prioritize? Of course they wouldn't.
 But they're not going to let anything as simple
 as
 hypocrisy stop them from trying to convince
 your boss that the AIs can do your job. And
 then
 they're going to keep knowingly insisting that
 their AIs are suitable for judgment critical
 tasks,
 like psychotherapy. It's just a bunch of
 BullSh--------
 This is Internet of Bugs. My name is Carl. I've
 been a software professional since the late
 1980s,
 and I'm trying to do my part to make the
 Internet a safer, less buggy place.
 So let me start by explaining that none of this
 is new. I have talked about these AI failings
 before,
 or at least aspects of them. I am making this
 video now because: One: people just don't seem
 to be
 getting it. And Two:, because I've clarified
 lately how I think about explaining things.
 See, I've been doing this podcast called
 Philosophy Programs and Prompts, links below
 and more info
 at the end of the video if you're interested.
 And it has helped me simplify my
 "Generative AI can't be AGI" thinking and get
 better at articulating it to people.
 So let's dig in, starting with the fact that
 these generative AIs cannot learn,
 and there's no evidence we know how to get them
 to learn, despite any claims to the contrary.
 This seems to be really weird to a lot of chatbot
 users because they appear to learn
 kind of, but they don't, and it really matters.
 The way these things work is to use a kind of a
 scratch pad they call a "context" to hold
 everything that's relevant to a given
 conversation. And then
 every time you type anything to them, they reread
 the context, which contains the entire
 transcript
 of the conversation so far, as well as your new
 question. And then it generates and gives you
 its answer, and then it effectively forgets the
 whole thing. Then you ask the next question,
 it rereads the whole context again, which now
 includes your last question and its last answer.
 And then it reads your new question and
 generates the answer to that, and then forgets
 the whole
 thing again. Now, the word "forget" there is an
 oversimplification. There are some performance
 enhancements: K-V caching, as well as some other
 tricks, that some modern chatbot systems use
 that,
 assuming multiple interactions happen in a
 short enough period of time, can shortcut some
 of the
 rereading on later answers. Some people might
 argue that these performance hacks mean that
 the AIs don't "forget" the whole conversation
 every time. There might be some very narrow
 sense of the word "forget" that, when
 combined with a broad enough sense of what
 constitutes
 "the AI," and if there's a very short time
 interval between questions, that could allow
 them to make
 that kind of pedantic argument. But it's
 pointless hair-splitting about vocabulary at
 this point.
 There is no dispute that the underlying Large
 Language Model does not learn. It cannot learn
 at all during your conversation or any
 conversation. And you don't have to take my
 word for it. Here's
 Dr. Simon Prince, the author of _Understanding
 Deep Learning_ on the Machine Learning Street Talk
 podcast, saying just that: "It really has no way
 to learn anything new other than its context
 vector, which it forgets every session. So even
 if it did have a way to manipulate the
 information
 that it had introduced into that context vector
 and formulate it into something new, you know,
 perhaps perform some logical deductions on it
 or come up with some new hypothesis based on it.
 It has no way to even remember that. So we're
 missing all kinds of parts of the puzzle."
 Those models, all Large Language Models, are
 created through a process commonly referred to
 as
 training, where the weights and parameters and
 connections that make up the model are
 determined
 and fixed. When that model is then made
 accessible to the public, none of those
 parameters change
 anymore. From the point of view of the consumer
 of the system, they have to be entirely read-only
 at that point, because on the occasions when
 the industry has tried to allow models to be
 notified while being accessed by the public, it's
 gone horribly wrong. It's never taken long
 before
 the people on the internet have figured out how
 to make those few publicly released live
 learning
 AIs believe some of the most offensive and
 untrue things, and the companies have had to
 pull them
 off the internet. I'll put some links to
 stories about that below. There is no reason to
 believe
 that the industry or anyone else has any clue
 how to create a live learning mechanism that
 can
 actually work in the real world. People have
 claimed to know how to make live learning AIs
 before,
 but when exposed to real work use cases, those
 models have all learned so many things they
 shouldn't
 that they've had to be taken down. But the
 industry is going to have to figure out a
 robust
 mechanism for learning and knowing what's worth
 learning and what's not to learn before we can
 get anywhere close to AGI. I'm sure some people
 out there will try to make the case that
 learning
 isn't necessary for models to reach the level
 of human intelligence, and if you're judging a
 human
 intelligence by the ability to answer test
 questions that are represented in the existing
 training
 data, then you might be correct. But training
 data gets out of date quickly. As change things
 in the real world, new technologies, new laws,
 regulations, new best practices, new company
 policies,
 new scientific discoveries, even current events,
 the answers the model give get more and more
 out
 of date. And the amount of additional
 information that you have to put in every
 context to catch
 it up with what's happened since this training
 cut off will get more and more unwieldy. Now,
 the AI companies are fine with this consequence
 of frozen models. It means that we all have to
 keep going back to them for new versions of the
 models and any open-weight model that any of us
 start using will become less and less useful
 over time as it gets out of date. Inability to
 learn
 has other consequences too. AI's just do not
 handle context the way we'd like to or we
 expect
 them to. The longer the context, the worse they
 are at following all the instructions.
 Where in the context the information is stored
 can affect how likely the LLM is to fail to act
 on
 it. I could go on and on, but instead, I've
 just put a list of research papers about it
 below.
 But suffice it to say that the context is not a
 substitute for having information
 trained into the weights of the neural network.
 And this isn't just an annoying issue. It's a
 safety issue too. As conversations get longer,
 more and more safety instructions get forgotten,
 this allows for a particular kind of attack
 called a Multi-Shot Jailbreak, where attackers
 keep adding things to the context until the LLM
 loses track of its safety protocols. And if
 it can't keep track of safety protocols, how
 likely do you think it will be to keep track of
 what you put in the middle of its context?
 Which leads us to the next fundamental failing
 and
 Large Language Models, which is noticing and
 managing contradictions, or to put it another
 way,
 prioritizing between multiple conflicting items
 like safety protocols and attacker's
 jailbreaking instructions. But even in simple
 tasks with short contexts, large language
 models
 can't figure out what to do in one thing it has
 been told contradicts something else.
 Let's start with a straightforward example you
 might have heard about. A while back,
 the head of AI safety at Meta was experimenting
 with OpenClaw and asking it to clean up her
 inbox.
 Instead, as she explained on the app formerly
 known as Twitter: Quote: "Nothing humbles you
 like
 telling your OpenClaw 'confirm before acting'
 and then watching it speedrun deleting your
 inbox.
 I couldn't stop it from my phone. I had to RUN
 to my Mac mini like I was diffusing a bomb."
 This is a pretty typical problem with AI's.
 They can only do one thing at a time and they
 have
 no concept of preemption or overriding imperatives
 or anything like that. You tell them STOP RIGHT 
 NOW. But to them, that's just one more chunk of
 text that gets stuck in the queue to process
 when it gets done with whatever it's doing.
 Humans understand the hierarchy of needs.
 If you're hungry at the same time that the
 building you are in is on fire, you don't have
 to consider
 which one of those is more important than the
 other. You smell smoke or feel heat and your
 brain
 will let you know that you need to deal with
 the emergency situation right now. Even newborns
 can prioritize. As a parent, even while we were
 still at the hospital after my daughter was
 born,
 her cries for "I'm hungry" and "That hurts" were
 very different and she knew instinctively
 which one needed to take precedence when she
 needed to get fed, but she couldn't until after
 the
 nurse poked her with a needle so a blood test
 could get run. AI's, at least once we have now,
 have no such ability. This is why AI's keep
 getting out of their sandboxes and attacking
 hosts on the internet - aside from the
 incompetence of the people setting up the
 networks.
 Humans automatically know to modify their
 behavior when it would cross a line, but the AI's
 can't
 prioritize. They can tell you if asked if
 something is illegal, but being able to recite
 the law
 won't have any effect on their behavior. All an
 AI does is process streams of text, and from
 the
 point of view of that underlying matrix
 multiplication that chooses the next output,
 all the words or
 tokens are created equal - except for the ones I
 alluded to earlier that get lost when the
 context
 gets too long. You don't have to tell your
 company's intern "don't break the law while you're
 performing
 this task." They just know that. The AI's don't
 have any way to realize that the command "don't
 hack
 any other companies" is more important and
 should take priority over the command "find
 vulnerabilities
 in this target computer." To them, text is text
 is text. And if each of those limitations wasn't
 bad enough, and they're incredibly limiting,
 these two issues compound each other.
 Even if the AI could learn without the ability
 to realize that some instructions should always
 preempt and overwrite others, you'll still get
 AI's doing things it shouldn't, like breaking
 sandboxes and hacking other companies. And even
 if AI's could understand how to handle more
 important
 and conflicting instructions, without the
 ability to learn, they'd still get out of date
 and be
 unable to customize themselves to local needs
 without inefficiently and constantly reading an
 ever-growing context, ever larger parts of
 which it would lose track of as the
 conversation went
 longer. But when both of them are happening at
 the same time, you get a huge mess. And that
 real
 mess takes many forms, but the one that worries
 me the most is adversarial attacks, where
 dedicated
 single purpose tools attack widely used general
 purpose frontier models and start unlocking
 vulnerabilities that can affect tens of
 thousands of installations and cannot be fixed
 sort of
 retraining the frontier model at great expense.
 This situation is a giant deficiency that
 malicious
 actors have all kinds of ways of taking
 advantage of. I've talked about prompt
 injection before,
 but that's just the tip of the iceberg. Given
 the way these things are being trained,
 the limitations that they have, the amount of
 access they are being given to online systems,
 and how ignorant the AI companies are proving
 to be when it comes to securing your networks,
 it's just inevitable that they're going to be
 security failures and really, really bad ones.
 And I want you to understand none of this is a
 surprise. I'm not breaking any news here. The
 AI
 companies know all of these facts. They know
 all of these limitations. They won't agree
 with my
 conclusions - It's in their financial interest
 not to - and they'll keep insisting, like they
 have in for years now, that they're very, very
 close to a new model that will yada, yada,
 yada,
 yada. But they don't address or even admit
 specific limitations. They don't want to talk
 about them.
 Because why would they? It's not stopping them
 from getting their money. But I urge you to pay
 attention to those limitations yourself because
 they've been trying to sell us this
 "breakthrough
 just around the corner" narrative for years. And
 in the process, they're setting us all up to
 live
 in an internet full of unsafe AI slop. Now,
 none of us can fix that alone. But together,
 we can at least try to help each other survive
 the worst of it. Thanks for watching. Let's be
 careful up there. If you're still here, and if
 you are interested, the podcast I mentioned
 earlier
 is called "Philosophy Programs and Prompts."
 There are links below, or you can search for it
 on YouTube
 Spotify or most places that podcasts are found.
 In it, I discuss AI issues with Casey Hart. He's
 a
 PhD philosopher from the @OntologyExplained
 YouTube channel. And every week we discuss the
 intersection of thousands of years of rigorous
 thinking about the nature of the mind, decades
 of
 practical experience with computer technology,
 and the recent explosion of AI tools and hype.
 I've been getting a lot out of it, and I hope
 you will too. I'd also be remiss not to take
 this
 opportunity to tell you that there are links
 below to joining my Patreon community if you
 feel inclined
 and have the means to help support what I'm
 trying to do here to make the internet a less
 bug-ridden
 place. Thanks again for watching, and let's be
 careful up there.