Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today we continue to talk about the history of China
In the previous video
We first discussed the function of the Great Wall
The Great Wall
Not just as the mainstream narrative claims
To defend against foreign enemies
Protecting People
Its other equally important
Even more important is to control the people
Nationalism
Often assume that “we” are a monolithic group
“We” must be naturally superior to “them”
So there is no need to consider the real situation inside "us"
However
Internal social injustice, oppression and poverty
Often more serious than so-called foreign threats
Therefore, from the Qin and Han Dynasties to the Ming and Qing Dynasties
What people want to escape from most
It is the various walls set up by the imperial system that
Whether it is a tangible wall, a pass
Or an invisible household registration system?
Heavy corvée and taxes
These things are more important than national identity
And this
This is also what China's grand narrative wants to avoid.
At the end of the previous video
We also discussed
Throughout the 20th century
The significance of the Great Wall is not static
At different stages in history
Constantly given new symbols and missions
Its symbolic value
As state power and ideology change
The circulating
From a closed symbol that hinders modernization
To the national symbol that inspired the spirit of the War of Resistance
From the marginalized old Chinese heritage
To become the core totem of "cultural confidence" again
The image of the Great Wall
Always shaped and rewritten by realistic political needs
This also shows
Symbols of nationalism
Not as it claims
Natural and beyond time and space
It may have been invented not long ago.
Created
That's it.
Some people might say
Qin Shi Huang and Emperor Wu of Han built the Great Wall to fight against the Huns
Although it has placed a heavy burden on society
But after all
Protecting the lives and property of the people
Their contributions in fighting against foreign enemies cannot be denied.
Today's video
We mainly take Emperor Wu of Han, Liu Che, as an example
Let’s continue to explore
The distortion of this nationalist propaganda
This video
It will also be included in the list of "History and Society"
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to our topic today.
We say that the expansion of authoritarian power
Equivalent to the progress of the whole society
This is also the mainstream way Chinese society views history.
For example, Lesson 12 of the seventh-grade history textbook compiled by the Ministry of Education
Emperor Wu of Han Consolidates the Unified Dynasty
The Han Emperor Wu was regarded as an emperor of "great talent and strategy"
The main points of this lesson
Students are required to remember
A series of measures taken by Emperor Wu of Han to consolidate the great unification
For example, weakening the power of princes and local tyrants
Because these people rebelled against the court
Cause social chaos
In terms of ideology, all other schools of thought were rejected, and Confucianism was the only one respected.
In terms of economy, we should promote salt and iron monopoly to stabilize prices.
Improved the country's financial situation
certainly
The most important thing is to continue to attack the Huns militarily.
Expanded the territory of the Han Dynasty
The textbook concludes that
Emperor Wu of Han's policy of unification
The Western Han Dynasty entered its heyday
I personally think
The title of the emperor in Chinese culture
Natural beauty with a beautifying meaning
So I am more used to calling him Liu Che
Rather than Emperor Wu of Han
The vocabulary and narrative style of textbooks
In fact, it is to put the interests of the entire country
Completely equivalent to the emperor's personal interests
Liu Che's actions were not for any special purpose.
It is beneficial to the whole nation
But this is a rather outrageous and wrong misunderstanding
An emperor with great talent and strategy in Chinese history
They are all powerful monarchs who have achieved great things.
But even from the perspective of that time rather than modern times
This kind of great talent
It is also a sign of mental illness.
actually
We can easily find
The most noble spirit in Chinese culture
They are closely related to power
The highest state is the emperor's mentality
Or they can spontaneously look at the problem from the perspective of an emperor.
For example, Liu Bang's "A real man should be like this"
When Xiang Yu saw the emperor's carriage, he said "You can replace it"
People praise these people for their little ambitions
Mao Zedong's poems
It is also full of this imperial perspective.
For example, "I want to compete with the gods"
"Look at today"
"Dare to teach the sun and the moon to change the sky"
"Look at the world turning upside down" and so on
This kind of broad-mindedness that looks heroic and romantic
Big volume, big pattern
It's actually a very primitive desire for control.
and narcissistic state
When people look at it from the perspective of aesthetics and cognition
Entering this imperial atmosphere, from the perspective of the emperor
It is easy to forget the boundaries of interests between people.
For example, people tend to think
Wars launched by Liu Che
All for the overall interests of national security and society
He started too many wars.
He was given the posthumous title "Wu"
However, these wars
There are quite a lot
It's just to satisfy his personal desires.
for example
Liu Che was very fond of the famous horses of Dayuan
It's like the three generals of North Korea like Maybach very much.
He sent messengers to buy
But it was rejected by Dayuan
So the envoy insulted the King of Dayuan
The result was killed
Dayuan did not threaten the security of the Han Dynasty
But Liu Che still decided to launch a war against Dayuan
To get those BMWs
It is also for his favorite concubine
Lady Li's brother Li Guangli created an opportunity to be crowned a marquis
The first war did not receive support from the Western Regions.
Suffering a crushing defeat
Almost annihilated
But no
How long did Liu Che mobilize another huge army?
Start of the Second War
This army included 60,000 soldiers
100,000 cattle and 30,000 horses
Under the shock of the massacre
Countries in the Western Regions surrendered one after another
This war went relatively smoothly.
Not many people died in the war
The Dayuan people were also forced to kill their king
And donated 3000 BMWs
But because the Han army was too corrupt
Treating soldiers badly
Wait until you return to your homeland
Only 10,000 soldiers left
Two-thirds of these BMWs also died
But Liu Che was still very happy
A similar war was waged against South Vietnam.
Nanyue did not threaten the national security of the Han Dynasty.
The attack on Nanyue was mainly to satisfy Liu Che's desire for expansion.
It is worth mentioning that
In these two wars
The Han army was filled with criminals and prisoners.
It can be said that this is an army of criminals.
This can also explain
Why did they suffer so many casualties?
Human life is so worthless
As for why there are so many criminals in the Empire
We also talked about this in the previous video.
The Cruel Officials Politics in the Western Han Dynasty
Make ordinary people
To the point where every move you make could violate the law
Once it is illegal
It's like becoming a slave to the country.
When there is a shortage of troops
Conscripting prisoners
It is a very economical way to save money
The state first convicts you of a crime
Then just exempt your criminal law
It can motivate you to fight.
So this was also a slave army.
Not a citizen army
This also makes us think of
In modern times
The Russian Empire also frequently conscripted prisoners to fight in the battlefield
Although the Russian army also won many wars
But this kind of treating soldiers as pure consumables
and the cannon fodder army
Not respectable
It is precisely because of the many wars during Liu Che's era
It's totally unnecessary.
Therefore, Ban Gu praised Liu Che's achievements in the Book of Han.
Mainly focused on his establishment of the Imperial College and the formulation of legislation
In the cultural undertakings of abolishing all schools of thought
and completely avoids mentioning his military exploits.
Finally, Ban Gu commented:
A monarch as wise and capable as Emperor Wu of Han
If you can use your energy on frugality
That's great!
This makes it easy for us to think
Chen Shou's criticism of Cao Pi in "Records of the Three Kingdoms"
Let's talk about Cao Pi first.
How knowledgeable and versatile!
If I could be more open-minded
Be more virtuous and kind
Then it's perfect.
This is actually what Chinese historians
Under the imperial despotism
A helpless and obscure criticism
Maybe someone will say
Let's put aside those unnecessary wars.
Han Dynasty's War against Xiongnu
Even if it adds a heavy burden to society
But it still protects the lives and property of the people.
However
We still need to clearly distinguish
The wars launched by Liu Che
Anti-aggression wars with modern countries
The essential difference between
An incident recorded in the Records of the Grand Historian illustrates this.
Fight against the Huns
It has nothing to do with protecting people's rights
The Biography of Ji Zheng says:
A tribe of the Xiongnu came to surrender to the Han Dynasty
This made Liu Che very proud.
So Liu Che ordered 20,000 vehicles to welcome
The government had no money at that time.
I had to borrow horses from the citizens.
The citizens are not stupid either.
They hid their horses.
Liu Che was very angry
Want to kill the Chang'an County Magistrate
At this time, Ji An asked the emperor
The Huns surrender
All we need to do is ask the counties along the way to slowly prepare their carriages and horses.
Why cause unrest across the country?
Let the people run around serving the Huns?
Liu Che remained silent
After the Huns arrived in Chang'an
Buying goods on the market
Law enforcement officials in Chang'an are obsessed with the letter of the law
Think that the citizens are selling goods to the enemy
It is equivalent to committing
Illegal smuggling
More than 500 businessmen were executed in one go
Ji An asked Liu Che again
We are here to conquer the Huns
Countless people died in the war
It cost billions of dollars
I thought Your Majesty had obtained the Xiongnu's property.
Will be rewarded to the family of the deceased
To comfort the hard work of people all over the world
Even if you can't do this
Nor should we empty all the treasures in the government warehouses.
Reward the Huns
Recruiting honest and decent people to serve them
Make them the best
We should not use harsh laws.
Killed more than 500 ignorant people
This is how you protect the leaves at the expense of the branches
But after Liu Che heard this
I think Ji An is talking nonsense.
He was dismissed soon after.
From such a small thing
We can clearly see
The true logic of the empire's war
And the truth about cruel politics
First, the emperor wanted to save his own face.
Allowing the Huns to enter the capital
And ordered the people to serve them
Then at this time
The Huns should at least not be considered enemies of the state.
Citizens do business with them
They should no longer be charged with smuggling and treason.
However, the imperial government
However, no corresponding temporary regulations have been issued
To adjust the existing law
The legal obligations and risks of the people have not changed in the slightest
This creates a dilemma for grassroots officials:
In this fuzzy area
They don't know whether to enforce the law.
I am afraid that my superiors will investigate me.
I killed them all in accordance with the principle of preferring the left to the right.
Under the cruel politics
Killing too many people
I can only say
It is a small mistake that can be corrected and criticized.
If we kill less
That would be a principled mistake of not being firm in one's stance.
So killing more is the best strategy
However, for citizens
This is an unsolvable problem
If you sell goods to the Huns, you may be killed.
If you refuse to serve them, you will be killed.
The court defeated the Huns
Not only has my weak position not changed at all,
Instead, there are more people
After all, in Liu Che's eyes
The Huns are more valuable for united front work
Therefore, the starting point of attacking the Huns was
It is not so much to protect people's lives and property
It's better to say
The emperor regarded the people as his private property
Not to mention protecting the people's rights.
In fact, this was also the norm for ancient Chinese emperors.
Another equally talented emperor, Li Shimin
The same is true
The Zhenguan Zhengyao records a very similar event.
It is said that at that time many Turkic tribes surrendered to the Tang Dynasty.
Li Shimin granted high positions to each leader.
There are hundreds of officials above the fifth rank.
This scale is about the same as the number of officials already
Every Turk
You can get a lot of money and clothes
The leader can get more rewards
Even a lot of land and houses
Li Daliang, the governor of Liangzhou at that time, criticized Li Shimin
Saying that Your Majesty should put the people of your country first
My life is good.
The surrounding ethnic groups will naturally yearn for
And His Majesty's approach is
"With China's rent
The vicious captive who accumulated evil
The more people there are, the better, and this is not good for China."
that is
With the hard-earned taxes paid by the Chinese people
To feed the evil and cruel enemies
And there are more and more people to support.
However, Li Shimin did not accept these opinions.
Later, Li Shimin went out to travel
The Turks who had surrendered colluded with each other
Attacked his camp
From then on, Li Shimin no longer trusted the Turks.
Reflect on the people around you
Said that Wei Zheng's suggestion was not adopted at the beginning
Now I realize how wasteful and costly this policy is.
The people of the Central Plains are the foundation of the country
But this kind of reflection is very hypocritical
His change of mind was entirely due to
The Turks wanted to stage a coup and kill him.
Instead of suddenly realizing those great truths
Therefore, we say
All despotic emperors
They all tend to achieve great things.
That is the so-called great talent
The great achievements under the autocratic system
It usually means a lot of trouble
As for why some emperors did not make trouble
It's more because objective conditions don't allow it.
It's not that the emperor himself really doesn't want to
For example, Emperor Wen of Han and Emperor Jing of Han
No messing around like Liu Che did
Mainly due to the early Western Han Dynasty
There is still a force that can restrain the imperial power
That is, the meritorious officials and the princes
Not yet eliminated
They are still active in the political arena
It formed a tripartite relationship with the imperial power.
But as they were gradually flattened and eliminated by the imperial power
The system and ability of the imperial power to extract wealth from the people
Growing stronger
at this time
It is almost inevitable that someone will appear
A powerful monarch like Liu Che
Or anyone
When you have great wealth and a large number of slaves
It's hard to bear to do nothing.
The reason why
Such monarchs always appear in Chinese history
First, at the source of the legitimacy of power
In this issue
Chinese and Western jurisprudence have completely different views
Han Yu said: "When people are born
As solid as barbarians and beasts
Saints stand
Then I know that I live in a palace and eat grains of rice…
Therefore, there is no greater way than benevolence and righteousness
"There is no better teaching than ritual, music, punishment and politics"
that is
The people were as ignorant as animals.
It was the saints who established the system.
Creates conditions for survival
So that people can survive
Just like that North Korean song
We Can't Live Without Him
because
This great salvation and grace of the saints to their people
So all the mysteries of the law
Only the saints can monopolize it
This is the Chinese legal system
The basic principles that have been reiterated and emphasized countless times
As Wang Yi said
The great difference between the theoretical foundations of Chinese and Western law
This has led to China's legal culture
I can't imagine such a system.
For example, in Roman law
Even though the emphasis on the sublimity of imperial power
We must first acknowledge
Imperial power comes from the authorization of the people and the law
Recognize that the emperor's will has legal effect
Because
The emperor exercised all legal authority over the Romans.
Chinese nationalism
Always the Emperor
Seen as a symbol of the national community
He compares the behavior of monarchs in a pre-modern and authoritarian regime
Packaged as a product of rational operation of a modern country
For example, the foreign wars launched by the emperor
Described as "defending the country"
The emperor's territorial expansion was sanctified as "national dignity"
Oppression and conquest of ethnic minorities in border areas
Whitewashed as a "unified multi-ethnic country"
Or "national integration"
Replace the logic of "family rule" with "national interests"
And try to connect with the modern concept of state sovereignty
But these are far from the truth.
About this topic
There's still a lot to talk about.
That's all for today's video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video
A social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "History and Society"
Also recommended
Please go and watch the other videos in my list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!