【後面的故事】過去這個週末中國知名博主 胡晨峰 突然被全網封殺了當然啊 我是一點都不感到意外的因為在我看來 胡晨峰被封殺這件事 就跟潮汐一樣根本就不是會不會發生的問題 而是什麼時候發生的問題如果說 胡晨峰和他的粉絲們沒有想過 他遲早會被全網封禁的話那只是一種僥倖心理罷了 其實過去一年來經常都會有觀眾讓我評價一下胡晨峰但我一直覺得沒有這個必要特地做一期視頻去講他但他被封殺的這件事確實引起了廣泛的社會討論胡晨峰被中共封殺也不僅僅是他個人的事也能讓我們對目前中國言論審查的大環境做一個探討和審視所以今天我覺得還是有必要來跟大家聊一聊這件事的 So today, in addition to talking about my opinion of Hu Cheng Feng I will also discuss whether he should go to YouTube to develop If Hu Cheng Feng can see this program I used to be a million fan blogger in the wall Also blocked by the CCP Now YouTube Chinese history circle is also ranked up Maybe some of my experience can let Hu Cheng Feng When deciding how the future road should go Can have some reference values Ok, let's quickly learn about Hu Chenfeng Hu Chenfeng is a young man from Jiangsu, born in 1998 He was born in a poor family, and had only high school education He was a car repairman before he started self-media In 2022, he started self-media He created topics such as "Buy force challenge" "The bottom line of society and the life of ordinary people" 比如说他会通过街头采访对比中国工人一小时的工资和其他国家普通工人一小时工资在当地超市的购买力他开始打响知名度是在2023年的3月当时胡晨峰采访了成都街头一位来自南充的78岁退休老人老人表示每个月仅靠107元人民币的养老金生活当时这个视频引起了中国社会广泛的讨论 您是哪里的?我是南昌在打工我老婆走了跟她儿子在跟那些打包子去家去那你现在有收入吗?没有收入了是都没得我78了没有养老金吗?没得那你平时花钱怎么办?花钱 我自己那这样我跟你去超市你买什么我来给钱今天要买点什么我就是买当地的我一个买这个的好香九七九月让它弄爆107块一个月给你107块那你有冰箱吗不知道最后的你吃那个买点鸡蛋买一个你吃不不不你不要给我钱 I am a little bit sick This seemingly simple video But it caused a lot of social unrest Because the Chinese media The picture that the news network is trying to draw Is everyone in China is happy Old friends In recent years, Douyin and Little Red Book Everyone looks rich Every meal is a dragon's box and a fish's fin So this real reflection The video of China's bottom life is not much It touched a lot of people's nerves Of course, the CCP does not want to let the public see this real scene After all, Xi Jinping said that he has eliminated poverty China has no more poverty group So this video was downloaded shortly after Hu Cheng Feng's account was temporarily sealed This is the first time his account has been sealed 解封后,胡承峰继续做类似题材的视频但他最有名的还是他在B站上的直播几乎每天晚上他都让观众跟他连线针对社会上的各种话题进行辩论尤其他跟小粉红的一些比较雷人的对话经常会被人做成切片发到外网有一次在跟一个愁日的小粉红对话时他直接把对方一个东北大哥给弄哭了你为什么不支持国产,咱们自助去买呢? I support them. I support them because they are kind and not selfish. I support them only when their products are good. If they are not good, I support them. Do you support them now? For example, the brand you mentioned, Bo Yide. Do you support them? I don't support them. Because I think that B&B is a bad brand. I don't like this brand. Why do you want to insult our national brand? I won't buy a Japanese car either. I won't buy a Japanese car either. What phone did you use? I used a national brand phone. What brand is it? OPPO A9. Do you know that the SIMOS in your phone is a Japanese Sony? MBC 뉴스 김재경입니다. (He's trying to talk to his phone, but he's not able to hear him) Because Sony is the number one in the world in this respect Sony is the number one in the world in photography No one dares to say that Sony is number one Almost all the phone sound effects are Sony's Don't be excited. Calm down, bro. Don't be. It's real. 你别别你冷静一下你别激动你听我讲你冷静一下你冷静一下我操不是我跟你别别伤心你别伤心你手机里面的日本零部件不止SIMOS一个你手机里面什么摄屏芯片日本的多了其实芯片不是日本的这个芯片里面那个IP也是日本的多了知道吧你别激动你冷静一下你接的那个LED灯LED是日本人发明的你把灯关了再哭 你不然你哭的不純粹啊不是喂喂而胡春风在海外华人权真正出拳的还是因为另一个名场面有个人在跟他直播连线的时候问他习是不是一个独裁者你想说什么我想说你认为习他是一个独裁者吗 這種人嚴重違反直播規範這種人嚴重違反直播規範我第一時間給他掛掉這種人瘋了吧這種人這種人是不是瘋了我的天這種人太可怕了這種人 這種人肯定有人找他的這種人肯定有人找他有人找他這種人瘋掉了這種人你怎麼能違反直播規範我的天我第一時間給他掛掉了第一時間給他掛掉了 這種人你自己承擔自己的法律後果這把胡晨峰給嚇得不輕雖然他即使掐掉了但後來他的賬號還是被封了幾天這是他第二次被封禁其實胡晨峰的言論是從來不涉及政治的他從來沒說過半句中共政府不好的話但是他的核心價值觀也確實不符合現在中國社會的主流價值觀 比如他不支持国产品牌反对中医宣扬中国传统文化无用论他说让孩子看西游记和三国演艺会降之他经常夸赞日本和国外品牌比如麦当劳、星巴克、特斯拉、山姆等等的 超市就去山姆电车就是特斯拉手机就是苹果一个城市只要没有山姆不告诉你年轻人不要买电车最好就是特斯拉不加任何地域大部分家庭的伙食是不如麦当劳的以麦当劳的汉堡为例就是你这个家常菜啊没有汉堡健康大家公认的美食是什么是日料只要一谈日料就是高级饮食就高端 I can tell you this, most of the family dinner at night is better than McDonald's fried chicken I am responsible for this sentence Ancient science is a disaster There is practical evidence that the person named Huatuo existed I don't even read the X-ray 休息也不看,三國演義也不看,為什麼?看三國演義我怕我孩子降制這些當然都不是中共想要引導的社會價值觀但最近讓胡晨峰引起比較大爭議的是他的所謂安卓蘋果論就連有一些向來都支持他大部分觀點的反體制人士也有意見了 The so-called Android Apple theory is a simple and rough division of everything in the Hucheng Feng method into Android or Apple. Apple is the high-end, and Android is the low-end. You are a typical Android logic, Android people, Android education, Android quality, Android grammar, Android attitude, Android school, Android school. Bro, you... Android cat! Android cat! Android cat! You are Android cat, right? Are you Android cat? What kind of app is Android cat? It's not worth the money. Android cat is not worth the money. Are you Android cat? Why does cat have Android app? How much did you pay for it? How much did I pay for it? Android cat. Here, Hu Chenfeng's fame has reached its peak Last month, he started selling his blessing video on Taobao It's a video of him recording a special message to his fans It's worth 2,999 yuan It's said that his monthly income is up to 600,000 RMB 但也就是在這個時候9月19號還是20號的時候他所有的帳號都被封禁了目前不能確定是不是永久封禁但按照目前的情況來看所有的視頻都已經下架跟前兩次是完全不一樣的大概率是永封了 Two days later, the Internet News Agency issued a notice to carry out a two-month "network campaign" nationwide which specifically added the important and clear projects for this campaign The movement of the group's extreme opposition is the reason why the public of Hu Chengfeng was blocked After the announcement of this Internet News Agency Hu Chengfeng's self-media talk on the Chinese Internet I'm afraid it's over Okay, that's about it To be honest, before Hu Cheng Feng was killed I have never watched his show completely I only know him when some interesting clips are posted on the Internet I will see For example, the video of Xi Jinping being the dictator And the video of the Northeast guy crying in the live broadcast room I went to watch some of Hu Cheng Feng's previous speeches to make this episode So what do I think of Hu Cheng Feng? 我知道我的很多觀眾覺得胡承鋒其實並沒有太多的真才實學在他出事以後我在推特上呼籲胡承鋒到YouTube上來做節目時在我的推文底下有個高讚評論是來自另一位YouTube知名博主夏何先生 He said I understand what Mr. Xia He wants to express Indeed, what Hu Chen Feng usually says in our opinion is just common sense So many people don't understand why he is so popular But I think what Hu Chen Feng does is very meaningful From the perspective of the open-mindedness of the general Chinese people I think he is more efficient than me to attract more people Because to be honest, many principles are not heard by most people when you use the so-called "high language" Everyone's success has a reason One thing I admire about Hu Chengfeng is that he can contact Little Pink every day Facing those extremely annoying speeches He can talk to people quite calmly You are a traitor 漢奸漢奸漢奸任賊作父你知不知道日本人是美國人的狗日本人是美國人的狗你這個結論是怎麼得出來的呢因為他是他的副屬國呀烏克蘭為什麼會小丑啊因為他反復橫跳啊就想要想跟美國當狗啊那請問俄羅斯也曾經想加入過北約啊那你怎麼看呢反正他就是正義的他打的就對了俄羅斯曾經四次申請加入北約你怎麼看 I don't know why you said that. I don't want to read this. Don't change the topic. This is the fact. I'm not changing the topic. We have to finish the review. You said that Ukraine applied to join the NATO. Ukraine is a dog. Russia is a little better than Ukraine. Ukraine is an independent country. Ukraine is an independent country. Japan is an independent country. It's a small country, you know? It used to belong to Russia. It used to belong to Russia? It didn't have Russia before. Why can't we fight him? No, before, there was no country like Russia. Russia was born in 1991. You need to know that the US is a bad country. No, wait a minute. Ukraine was born a few weeks earlier than Russia. I can't remember the exact time. If you insist, Ukraine was born earlier than Russia. (他打這個就對了)(你不要我扯那個亂七八糟的)(為什麼對啊)(因為他該打啊)說實話這我是絕對辦不到的我對愚蠢是毫無耐性的跟愚蠢的人爭論我是壓不住怒火的我更不願意在那些明顯無可救藥的人身上耗費哪怕是一秒鐘的時間 But Hu Cheng Feng is almost every day to contact these people I feel dizzy every time I think about it Of course, some people may think What's the use of this? It's meaningless to argue with a fool But I think it's meaningful Indeed, some people are hopeless. For example, those who believe that artificial intelligence has long been written in the Yongle Festival, those who believe in Western theory of the dead, those who fight against Japan and Taiwan every day. But in addition to these extremists, there are still many in China who don't understand the truth just because of the information. But because some people born with logical thinking have not been completely brainwashed. Don't think that all pinks can't be changed There are many of them that just don't have the chance to get the right information You don't know how many comments and private messages I received telling me They used to be pinks too, but they were gradually faded away through my show But what I and other YouTube bloggers can achieve is a group that can overcome the wall And in the wall, Hu Cheng Feng is actually in a very unique track Of course, there are also many open-minded bloggers in the wall, like me before But those who are bitterly bitter in the wall They are on the red line to criticize government policies and social injustice Most of them are like me The so-called "princess" of the little pink What is wrong with the salary? It is not enough to receive the local fund. To be honest, the people we can reach The knowledge and level of knowledge Has already reached a certain level. So the salary in the wall is really a little bit level It is difficult to do big To put it nicely, it is "high-level and reasonable" It might be a bit too much to say But what we can't deny is things that are well-informed are easier to be spread Hu Cheng-feng used his own way to spread some common sense and common values to more ordinary people in the wall I think his way is more broad than the mainstream anchors Yes, some of his remarks are indeed too two-faced But through the debate with Little Pink He made many people in the wall see for the first time There are different views in the world It turns out that not everyone in the world feels that Chinese culture is so powerful Chinese products are far ahead His purchasing power test program also very directly let the Chinese people see the difference between China and the developed countries' labor force purchasing power Indeed, some of his remarks are too extreme But there must be someone in China who is against Chen Ping The so-called Chinese economist Chen Ping once said Chinese people with a monthly income of 2000 RMB The happiness and stability of life should be higher than Americans with a monthly income of 3000 US dollars 相信成平不等世的中國人不要太多而這類人是我這樣的公知類博主很難觸達到的說實話他們看到我的樣子聽到我的譴詞用字壓根就沒有興趣聽下去但他們也許願意聽胡承峰講幾句從開始的暴怒也許聽著聽著就聽進去了那位在直播間裡嚎啕大哭的仇日東北大哥不知道現在醒過來了沒有 而在中國這樣的獨裁政權當中傻子就是國家的優質資產你幫傻子開啟民智把傻子變聰明了那相當於是在偷盜國有資產那是肯定要封你的 其實,護成峰的賬號之所以能夠存活到現在主要還是因為他從來不牽扯政治講的基本都是社會和民生話題但即便如此以前不封你是因為你影響力還不夠大只要你影響力到達了一定級別你所宣傳的價值觀是不符合中共敘事邏輯的那肯定還是要堵你的嘴的 現在護成峰被逢了很多人就在鼓勵他趕緊到YouTube上來做節目吧那麼護成峰如果真的到YouTube上來了能夠成功嗎他應該到YouTube上做節目嗎 From the emotional point of view, I am very supportive of Hu Cheng Feng to do a show on YouTube After all, even if the Internet News Agency allows Hu Cheng Feng to create another account But in the wall, no matter how big your account is Your fate is always in the mind of the Internet News Agency leader So as long as you want to tell the truth Interpret a little social problem and injustice YouTube is the final destination But from the perspective of reality It's not that easy First, his body has to come out first Otherwise, people who do that kind of YouTube program in the wall Is suicide Some people may think As long as he controls the degree of good Only do those purchasing power tests Talk about topics related to fame Don't involve politics Should be fine Then you are wrong 我想告訴大家的是其實牆內短視頻平台的審查機制對繁體制類的博主來說很多時候反而是一種保護因為平台擔心自己隨時會被政府關停就像以前的內涵段子一樣所以其實平台比中共更敏感的多你只要稍微越界平台首先就先把你的視頻給下架了就算你發瘋了做了一個視頻直接喊打倒習近平 First of all, your video can't pass the machine inspection and can't be released So when I used to make those videos in the wall I often have friends who care about my safety I said, don't worry The platform is my best platform It's impossible for you to say too much If you say it, you won't have a chance to spread Your sin won't be too much 但是你一到YouTube上你就没有了平台的这道监管当然你可以自我审查但人性是这样的你一开始只是在红线边缘跳舞但你一定会越来越忍不住越来越大胆每一次你挑战红线边缘之后不出事你的侥幸心理就会更进一步最终越走越远 Until one night, when you were sleeping The police suddenly broke in Your life is over So as long as Hu Cheng Feng is not strong I strongly suggest that you should not start doing YouTube Don't believe your self-criticism 第二就算他肉身能出來但是他的家裡人能出來嗎他應該還是單身這一點就比較自由但他父母親和親戚受到騷擾那是免不了的而且走上了這條路就再也回不去了我不知道他是不是已經做好了這種準備 第三, 互承封其实刚刚火了没多久之前他的税后净收入每个月应该是两三万人民币最近几个月才达到了四五万上个月在淘宝卖祝福视频, 据说是赚到了税后四十多万但这才第一个月就被封了 I guess his savings is about 2-3 million RMB If he wants to develop his country, and he still can't do YouTube, it's a big risk He is not a student, if he can't do YouTube, his life will be hard If Hu Chenfeng can be a good YouTuber, there are many online debates. Some people think that what Hu Chenfeng said is actually true. The way he discusses with Pink, is not common in overseas. There are also some opinions like Mr. Xia He, which I mentioned at the beginning of the video. That is, Hu Chenfeng himself does not have enough knowledge. I'm afraid it's hard to make it big on YouTube. I think if you don't have to be rich and rich You don't have to be the first team to do YouTube, right? Even if you are the second or third team It's not a problem to support yourself And I think Everyone has their own favorite You see there is a person called Sydney on YouTube The level is so poor The character is so low Can have 300,000 fans So nothing is impossible Of course, the only advantage of this person is that he did it very early At that time, there was almost no one in the YouTube Chinese But I want to tell you that this logic is not working on YouTube. The self-cultivation can really help a lot in the beginning. But if you can't continue to make good works, it won't last long. There are many living examples. For example, you all know about Ray Cheng Gang The former Asian reporter who claimed to represent Asia He was more famous than Wang Ju Because he was too high-profile, he was sentenced to six years in prison for bribery After he was released, he was on YouTube in October last year The first video Ray Cheng Gang came back It attracted more than 400,000 views immediately It grew by 60,000 fans overnight This is what makes many YouTube bloggers envy Many people have been doing it for years and it can't reach 60,000 fans This is the effect of his past fame But it's almost a year now In addition to the first show video Only another video is watched more than 100,000 times In the first year after the first show video Only 20,000 fans have been raised There are only 80,000 subscribers in total For example, Mr. Lee is not Mr. Ni He is the most famous person in the anti-communist force overseas BBC and New York Times have reported him Twitter has more than 2 million fans It is the personal account of the most Chinese Twitter fans Last year it was one of the top 10 most popular accounts on Twitter in the world But his YouTube channel Although 4-5 videos are updated every week It has been staying at more than 200,000 fans I'm not saying this to give him a cold shower We all know his advantages I just hope that before he comes out He should have a full understanding of the risks and challenges he is about to face Only after fully understanding his advantages and opportunities The risks and challenges Then the decision he made Is a decision that is responsible for himself and his family If you understand these, and you finally decide to do it, then I will be the first to open my hands and welcome you. Just like when I was blocked by the CCP in April last year, I said the same thing to all my fans in the wall in WeChat. 希望有一天我們還能在那個自由的世界裏重逢好 那我今天就分享到這裏我是老宗橫沒冷對 直言不諱我們下期再見