Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
This video
Let's talk about toxic relationships.
as well as
Why People Stay in Toxic Relationships
Among the netizens and friends I know
I often come across this kind of situation.
The client's daily and social life
All very rational and normal
However, when it comes to intimacy
But they often do things that seem incomprehensible.
They know this relationship is full of hurt and pain
But it's always hard to get rid of
Even if I get out of this relationship
But in the next relationship
But I'm in a similar situation again
Although there is no external restriction
But the parties felt
I can never break through some invisible barrier.
Life seems to be trapped in reincarnation and repetition
This is a profound sense of unfreedom.
We used to
In this video about real interests
Mentioned
Freedom Itself
It can be divided into negative freedom and positive freedom
Negative freedom refers to
The outside world has no influence on my behavior.
As long as no one interferes with my choice
I am free
Positive freedom means I can control myself.
Self-mastery
Because although sometimes
No one interfered with me.
But I may be constrained by my own nature
For example, some kind of psychological trauma I have, etc.
Therefore, unfreedom can be divided into two types
That is, the lack of freedom controlled by external forces.
and subject to inherent unfreedom
The lack of freedom controlled by external forces is easy to identify
For example, your parents ask you
They have to live according to their plans.
This kind of lack of freedom is relatively easy to solve.
and subject to the inherent unfreedom
It is misleading and deceptive
Because these oppressive voices
All are issued in the name of self
However, these selves
Just a false self
The alienated self
Not the real self
one person
Chronically attracted to and hurt by toxic relationships
This is of course a serious lack of freedom.
But this cannot usually be simply attributed to
External oppression and restraint
So discover your true self
This means identifying those false selves.
Awareness
The psychological mechanisms and reasons for their existence
Today's video
Let's just talk about this topic briefly
If you are interested in today's video
or
Do you have any topic you want to discuss with me?
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to our topic today.
Speaking of toxic relationships
I thought of the experiences of several friends.
Their experiences are very representative.
The first female friend has a very violent boyfriend
This boyfriend doesn't understand and respect him.
Constantly criticizing and insulting her verbally
Sometimes I will take action
This of course caused him a lot of mental pain
In my opinion
There is no reason for this relationship to continue
However, when discussing how to break up
Her evaluation of her boyfriend
But there have been subtle changes
For example, she would think
“Men are like this
Who can be any better?"
Or think that this man has many shortcomings
But he is growing
And sometimes very charming
This is actually a veiled compliment.
Even though I admit he's terrible.
But there is no better than him
So he is the best solution.
In fact, the parties themselves
They may not be aware of the contradictions in their attitudes.
There is a kind of inversion here
That's the kind of unsafe, dangerous intimacy
Instead, it gave her a special sense of security.
And the kind of emotionally stable love object
Instead, it may make her feel strange and insecure.
This seemingly contradictory psychological pattern
It's a typical trauma obsession.
Trauma attraction
The early growth experience of the parties
Full of abuse and violence
In this environment
She developed a whole system of coping with violence and abuse
Ability to confront and cope
This is not just a psychological adaptation.
It is a way of survival that the whole body is familiar with.
When Confronting an Abuser
Her body knows how to react quickly
She knows how to predict the other person's mood changes
How to deal with unexpected dangers
How to defuse and resist the opponent's attack, etc.
Prolonged traumatic environment
This makes the reaction mechanism quite tenacious.
However, if she is with a gentle,
Emotionally stable people together
She will find
All these reaction mechanisms have lost their meaning.
She no longer needs to be vigilant, compromise or fight
All these psychological mechanisms that had helped her
In a normal relationship, it seems redundant
This is like a warrior
He learned how to survive on the battlefield.
Accustomed to fighting and conflict
When he suddenly came to a peaceful world
He will feel insecure and unreal.
Even feel boring and empty
Because all the combat skills he had accumulated were useless.
And those with violent and unstable partners
It recreates childhood trauma
Although it will hurt
But it does activate her nervous system.
It can evoke her strong sense of familiarity and vitality
Her physical reactions, emotional patterns, and abilities
It seems that I have found meaning in this state.
This leads to
She is easily attracted to men with problems
Another female friend said
Although she currently has a very gentle
And a caring boyfriend
But she often feels
That terrible ex
There is always an inexplicable attraction
predecessor
A man who is rude and cold to others.
But he often showed her unusual kindness.
This special kindness touched her heart.
even though
Her ex sometimes behaved rudely towards her.
But she thinks
This is just because the predecessor lacked a good growth environment
You should be more tolerant of others
However
As she tried again and again to repair her relationship with her ex
But experienced frustration again and again
She seems to think
This emotionally unstable person
Occasional kindness
It is more precious than the kindness of those who are sane.
Also more attractive
This attraction seems indescribable and incomprehensible
This woman's childhood can be said to be relatively safe.
Her parents love her more.
There's no major trauma.
However, although her father treated her well
But she often suppressed her mother
In her childhood
They can often empathize with their mothers' depression,
Misfortune and powerlessness
Although this is her mother's trauma
It wasn't a direct trauma she experienced.
However, because she subconsciously agrees with
Accepting and inheriting the mother’s negative experiences
So she can also say
It's a vicarious trauma.
This just shapes her predecessor's appeal
Because the ex is similar to her father in some way
That is, they are all rude to others.
But it's good for her.
She was unconscious
I hope to recreate this traumatic environment.
By repairing the relationship with this man
Thus, they can compensate and repair the mother's trauma in a vicarious way.
Make up for the emotional care that the mother did not receive
However, this desire for restoration is always frustrated.
Because her ex won't cooperate with her plan
This caused her to experience constant pain and disappointment.
And every failure
This strengthened her motivation to continue working hard.
A male friend had a similar experience.
He found out that his girlfriends
They are used to suppressing and taking advantage of him.
He felt that he seemed to be easy to tolerate.
and endure this kind of oppression from the other side
When someone makes certain demands on you
He always feels that he should tolerate others.
Respond to the needs of others
This netizen in daily life
Will not tolerate repression
But in an intimate relationship
Facing this kind of women who make him feel arrogant
He showed great tolerance
This often causes him a lot of pain and confusion
Through discussion
We discovered that he had a cold and authoritarian father.
His father was very strict and stingy with him.
There is no warmth
He now
It seems that in these girls
I saw my childhood self
So when those women asked him
He does not feel the other party's disrespect and exploitation of him.
Instead, it automatically enters the parent-child relationship model.
As if the other person is a child who is acting like a spoiled child to him
He was unconscious
Played the role of an ideal father
in other words
He hopes to satisfy these girls by
Thus symbolically repairing his childhood
He felt
If he rejected the requests of those girls
The other party will be very disappointed, painful and powerless
However, these experiences
It's more like a projection of his repressed emotions in childhood.
Rather than what actually happened
This is another form of trauma obsession.
Due to the subconscious coldness,
Criticism of the stingy bad father
He feels a responsibility to be present in intimate relationships.
Be a good father
and those who unconditionally meet the needs of others
As a result, he is in an intimate relationship
Always attract emotionally oppressive women
And this seemed to exacerbate his trauma once again
Through the discussion of the above examples
We can find
Traumatic obsessions often have the following characteristics:
The first is that this relationship often does not improve
Even make people sink deeper
The key characteristics of trauma obsession are
In intimate relationships,
Repeated attempts to repair past trauma
They will try every possible way to change each other.
Invest more emotional resources
Hopefully "this time"
Can make up for the emotional experience that was not completed in the past
However
Such repair efforts are usually in vain.
Because the parties choose
Often those who do not have the ability to repair
It can even be said that he is a person with serious mental defects.
For example, a person who has been treated indifferently since childhood
May be attracted to people who are emotionally hot and cold
Trying to gain final acceptance in this relationship
But these people themselves lack stable emotional abilities
It doesn't provide a sense of security at all
Individuals mistakenly believe they are trying to repair trauma
It's actually re-enacting the trauma.
This relationship pattern is not the path to healing.
Rather
Let them experience the helplessness and pain of the past again and again
A vicious cycle
Second, in trauma obsession
The parties involved often experience severe regression
Regression means
The human mind regresses to a childish, primitive state
It is normal to experience regression in a relationship.
It can even be said to be necessary
For example, two people talk like children
Act like a spoiled child to the other person
Create some cute names, etc.
This healthy regression
Actually
is interacting in a more natural and unguarded way
It does not carry with it any fragility or dependency of mind
It's not from the shadow of trauma.
It's just an emotional release.
and ways to express intimacy
both sides
You can temporarily put aside the pressure and responsibilities of the outside world
Enjoy unconditional love and acceptance
The severe regression
is largely involuntary and out of control
And may develop into a more extreme psychological state
For example, the original sense of atonement,
Black and white emotional patterns, etc.
The so-called primitive sense of atonement
The parties involved
May display extreme self-sacrifice towards their partner
Believe that they need to perform some kind of mysterious "atonement"
To exchange for the love of the other
Or make yourself pure, holy
This mysterious morality
This causes them to react badly to their partner
Endure again and again
Even if I am ignored, abused, betrayed
I also feel like “I’m not good enough”
Even take the initiative to endure more pain
In exchange for the other party's temporary goodwill
The reason why we say this kind of thinking is primitive
Because
It is found in children and primitive humans.
Very common
It is a primitive self-centered thinking.
and the tendency of subjective and objective interpenetration
Children growing up
Often not enough capacity
To understand complex emotions and relationships
As we said in the video about sexual fantasies
Mentioned in
Children have a tendency to
When you feel that the relationship between you and your parents
Any possibility of cracks or imperfections
Children tend to uphold their parents' authority
And glorify parents
At the same time, put the responsibility on yourself
Children will not recover from their parents' indifference to them.
Conclude that there is something wrong with the parents
Instead, children may feel that they are not good enough.
Not outstanding and excellent
And internalize this sense of shame into the subconscious
People who experienced more of this type of trauma in childhood
Easy to feel
I am the only one who has the responsibility to mend the relationship.
Conflict resolver
The core expression of atonement
It means that you think you need to "compensate" for certain actions.
Even in the face of abuse or unfair treatment
They also think they “deserve” to suffer.
It is believed that only through extreme self-sacrifice can
To gain love or recognition
This mode of thinking
Similar to the unconditional dependence on parents in childhood
It is worth mentioning that
This primitive sense of atonement
It is also a gateway to understanding Chinese society.
We will discuss this later.
Third, the parties feel that a certain type of person
Have strong emotions and attractions
But this attraction is not due to some kind of emotional resonance
It is an unconscious
Patterns that are difficult to express and understand in words
party
It seems like I am playing a role involuntarily.
It seems like sleepwalking
This attraction is not free.
Sometimes it can be painful
But it's just irresistible
It's a bit like addictive behavior.
For example, an alcoholic doesn't actually want to drink.
But in the end he still chose to drink in pain
Although no one forced him to do this
This voluntary forced
This is where the confusion and contradictions come in.
So why is there this fascination with trauma?
Is it difficult to express in words?
We will continue to discuss this topic in the next video
That's it for today's video
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Payment and communication methods
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!