Hello everyone, I am the U.S. stock marketer, your U.S. stock explorer Today's video is special I plan to talk to you about myself It's been almost six years since I started my own media We talk about the market and the stock market every day But I rarely talk about myself Unconsciously, our channel has more than 600,000 fans I would like to thank you for your support In today's video, we will talk about entrepreneurship, money, and personal growth In this process, I will also respond to some questions that have been concerned by the audience For example, how do I make money, what is my team like, etc. I will also share some of my personal real entrepreneurial experience For example, what failed products I made, what kind of results I got, etc. No advertising, no job, just a very personal sharing I define myself as a lack of talent self-media person, a leader entrepreneur, an investor who loves the US stock very much. You may not care who the American army is, but if you have one of the identities, you might want to hear my story. Maybe it will give you some inspiration. Many friends know me because I do this self-media channel. But to be honest, I'm doing self-media. It's completely wrong. I can't even count on it to be self-media. I know there are many people in this industry who are good in their image and can chat Sit there and chat I can't do these things in an hour As a blogger I have no money to deduct I have no money to ask for money Why don't you dare to show your face Mainly because I'm afraid that one mouth will show the stuffing I am actually a science student with a very harsh impression I have been taught hard since I was a child I do math and physics competitions The results are good, but the score is also more serious Later I came to Canada I got into one of the best universities in Canada, UBC I started learning physical physics Then I took the road to the CPA Do a survey for a Canadian listed company It's hard to imagine that such a person would choose to do financial self-media Why did I start doing self-media again? This is related to my other identity I am a pioneer of the iron When I graduated from college, I started thinking about entrepreneurship At that time, I had such an idea I want to be a social platform for Chinese coal investors Everyone can use it as long as it is an investment in coal Why? Because I like to copy stocks I started investing in coal since I went to college But in fact, this process is quite painful It's very difficult to get started, even if you get started later, you don't know what to look at No one around can communicate with each other So at that time I thought I do such a social platform that specializes in serving Chinese investors Everyone can learn to invest and communicate with investment I think my idea is very good I was like a doll at the time I do a BP, I do a PPT Then I went back to China to drag all kinds of relationships to meet investors As a result, it turned out that it was a nose meeting At that time, it was affectionless for all kinds of investors But there was this big investor who was quite nice He said to me, "Your idea is good, but not very mature Why don't you make a public account? Just put your idea up there, in case someone buys it, right?" Later, I thought that this guy might have rejected me. But I was really serious at the time. I thought it was great. This is the beginning of my business. I'm going to do this. So I started my self-media career. In fact, from that conversation to the time I really started to do self-media, I also spent three to four years. I had a pretty good job at the time I was working and thinking about starting a business That's how real life is Thoughts are full of new trends when they are thought But there are always various difficulties in real life You have to work and make money Then I quit my job in 2019 Started to start a full-time business I started doing this self-media at that time To be honest, I was quite happy to do this at the beginning At least, I have learned some methods and made a lot of money from the investment these years Plus, my job is to do auditing for listed companies I know everything about the financial report I can see the cat's pee with one glance I'll say first, why don't you have to pay me back for this content? As a result, I have been doing this video for more than half a year I have been unquestionable But I have no choice I just said that I am indeed lacking in talent to be a self-media It's not my strength to rely on humor and trickery What should I do? I rely on a dead man At first, I was the only one who studied and wrote my own scripts and made my own videos. I had at least 70 hours a week, basically without rest. I was busy for a long time, and I remember very clearly after a year. I earned less than 30,000 yuan from YouTube. I can't even count the zeroes I worked before. But what's the good point? Maybe it's the spirit of my death Touched my partners They later joined Maitou They have classmates from my university And my brothers who worked with me when I was in UBC After someone helped me, I spent a lot of time We explored a lot of new opportunities together Then I caught up with the 21st year of the big bull market The world is so big Soon, Maitou's channel will be popular With more than 100,000 fans, the traffic is also up (The story of the first day) By this time, my little heart is starting to sway. I said that I have a flow, and we have a team. It's time for me to show off my skills. I'll tell him all my creative ideas. I'll start doing it. I started to do the social platform that I had the first idea at the beginning. I recruited a technical team and started to develop my investor's social platform. As a result, I didn't have much experience in starting a business and had a lot of ideas. The cost was too high to do it. I thought, the stall is too big, let's make it smaller What to do? I said, let's make a messenger Why? I found that investors love to chat A lot of chat content is actually very valuable I said, let's make a messenger for investors It took me a few months to make this messenger Added all kinds of investor functions The result is still not good Because it is not as good as WeChat and Discord Everyone is not willing to use So far, we have made two products. But friends, you have to know that entrepreneurship can cost money. We self-media did well, but it is different from other self-media bloggers. We are a whole creative team. We core members have been drinking northwestern points for a long time, but we can't get through the window. What should we do? We have to do content degeneration. So I had to put down the product to make new content I started a member channel and did a Qiquan course These contents are not done casually Like Qiquan course, I spent a lot of money at that time I have been preparing for more than a year You don't have to say that I made a series of content changes Really let me find a chance I found that it was too difficult for the financial blogger to do content changes Currently, some of these platforms are not designed for investors So I have to make a platform for investors to use. I'll use it myself, and then I'll find other bloggers and analysts to use it. I'll use this platform to attract a lot of publishers, and then I'll use a lot of content to serve our vast number of investors and users. I think this idea is good. This thing has been done for more than a year This platform is quite popular among peers It can make money steadily But there is still a problem There are too few outputters who are capable If you do this, the platform will not be big at all I believe that it can't be done, it has to be changed My goal of Meitou is not only to let fans see more content, but to make every Chinese investor can easily get professional investment support. So recently, I made the biggest transformation since Meitou was established. I decided to give up the mature multi-blogger route and directly do it myself. I recruited a financial advisor myself to do the content. Although the products are constantly touched, we are professional in content. I will do whatever content investors need I will try to expand the cover of these content as much as possible You don't need to know the US dollar As long as you are an investor Want to understand the stock Then I can help you This is the way I think about making products now To be honest, this will not be my last product transfer I have no bottom in my heart I know that this kind of practice is not low risk Like investors, they persuade me that self-employment content is too expensive and hard to make money Team shareholder also persuades me If you do this, you will offend many of our previous partners If you can't, it's hard to turn around But that's how it is It's hard to walk every time you walk over I don't know how to walk the right way But I know what I shouldn't go Since we have limited ability Can't find the right answer So maybe I can achieve the goal by eliminating the wrong answer I guess you all know why I say I'm a "head-on" entrepreneur. In fact, it's the same as me being a self-media, and I rely on entrepreneurship. I just knocked down a wall and then knocked down another one. I'm still on the road to hitting the wall. These stories I'm talking about may be little known to people. I'm not afraid to laugh at you today. This is my own real entrepreneurial experience. All the way to now, Maitou has been constantly taught to fail, but it has also achieved some results. The most proud of me is my team. Currently, my team has more than 20 members. The core partners are from the top universities in the world. They have all had very enviable jobs, gave up their high spirits and joined Maitou. In addition, we have eight full-time professional analysts with more than 10 years of professional experience We also have a very professional technical team, including AI PHD and advanced AWS advanced software engineers, etc. These brothers are the biggest wealth I have ever had since I started my own business One more word, now the team of every analyst is still expanding If you have friends or friends around you who are interested in it, welcome to recommend it to us It's best to have more local ones, thank you all [Music] After talking about these business stories, it's finally time for the thing I want to share with you. Some of my own business ideas. In fact, I really like to talk to people about this part, even more than talking about investment. Let's talk about some of them today, and we'll talk about it later. The first thing I want to share with you is that it is not an easy thing to start a business, but it is a very happy thing. We usually hear a lot of stories about success in the business, or maybe you've heard some cases of business failure, but very few people are starting a business to tell you their current experience. In fact, most entrepreneurs are like me. A ordinary person has an unrealistic dream. Keep trying, keep trying, get lost, get arrogant. From my experience, you can see that it's not easy to start a business. Why are so many entrepreneurs still not giving up? Some people say it's for money, but I tell you, it's not. Most entrepreneurs who can persist are not for money. But entrepreneurship itself can bring people a sense of happiness that can't compare to you in anything else. First of all, it can give you a lot of instant feedback As a decision, you will immediately find that the number of users has increased Or immediately find that you have made money That feeling is like playing a game to upgrade Of course, most of the time, there is a negative feedback or no feedback at all This requires you to think about solving the problem There are too many problems to solve in the creative world No matter if you want to solve it or not, you have to solve it But the more problems you solve, the faster you grow This self-improvement will be attracted It's hard to come out when you're in It really feels like a pain-sick happy person So you see, most entrepreneurs are workaholics In fact, no one is born to love work It's just an addiction But with the accumulation of experience, great entrepreneurs can also regain their initiative. You see, those really awesome entrepreneurs are not so tired. They often reach a kind of "trivial economy". The world is the same. People who can do business well can often live a good life and invest well. Life is easy, investment is safe, and happiness is naturally enhanced. As a mediocre entrepreneur, I have not reached this level. But I can also experience the happiness that entrepreneurship brings me step by step. This is a feeling that makes people feel bad. If you want to enter the pit of entrepreneurship, you may be able to refer to my experiences. It's not that easy to start a business. It's not something you can do with a good idea. It's not that scary to start a business. Even if you can't do it, the happiness in the process can be used for life. Second, entrepreneurs should have a firm vision, but have a flexible approach. You may think that this is a piece of cake, but it's not. All these attempts I made are actually the same, and have never changed. It's to make it easier for Chinese investors to invest in Meigu. I do self-media for this goal, and I do products for this goal. Your method can change, but your goal can't change. But you can't do it the other way around. I think it's great to do something, but I have to do it to the end. For example, I wanted to start an investment social platform. I think it's still a good idea. But it may not be a reasonable entry point for products. If I was watching the way at the time, I would definitely take more detours. So my method is to keep adjusting, and run quickly. One thing does not need to be perfect, just do it to the point where you can know if it works. If it works, let's keep going. If it doesn't work, let's hurry up and pivot. It is in this constant pivot that we can really find the real needs of the user to make good products. But it's easy to say, but it's still a lot of challenges to do. The biggest challenge is that you have to be able to resist temptation. For example, as a financial blogger, making money is actually a very easy thing. But sometimes this will conflict with your vision. I will share with you how I make money. I have four parts of my income now. The first part is the ad share given by YouTube. The second part is the advertising fee given by the plant ad. The third part is a set of full-time courses I made. The fourth part is the subscription fee of my startup project, Metopro. Yes, my new project also uses the name of my previous member products, also called Metopro, also to make everyone remember. Guess which part of me makes the most money? It's Mike. And you know, I don't usually do Compared to me, I'm a pro, I'm working with more than 20 people, working hard every day to make products and content, and I don't have a salesman to make money I'm not a saint, I want to make money, too I often hate it But you can see that if I want to realize my dreams, I'm destined to focus on the offline Make this channel well, make my pro, that's the key to my vision So you see, it's very important to stay strong enough in the business You might run away if you don't stay in your mind for a while Third, it's important that there is no waste of effort in entrepreneurship. You may think that the American army is too weak, and these things are obviously not good. In fact, to be honest, I have always been told that this is not good, that is not good. But entrepreneurs are proud. I have never experienced it myself, and it is difficult for you to convince me if it is good or not. I've been through all these turns myself, and I realized that there is nothing to waste If I don't go through these turns, I can't know what the real demand of investors is If I don't go through these turns, I can't understand so many good friends who are in the same boat If I don't go through these turns, I won't make any progress I don't even realize how much I'm eating I've seen a lot of those who live behind the scenes You see, I told you that this thing didn't work These people are just standing there and talking He told you what didn't work, he didn't know what could be done The road has to be your own If you really believe these so-called seniors Then you just stand still Otherwise, you will walk the path that everyone has walked Isn't this the current situation of young people? Either lie flat or roll over In fact, the solution is also very obvious, to innovate and start a business. It's not bad to walk around, even if you don't reach the end, the scenery on the road is also your eternal wealth. Fourth, let millions of people see it, it's better to let a thousand people scream. This is actually a sentence I took from the low-cost business art of Fandang. I like it very much. What does this mean? In this era, the flow of thought has passed. It's like millions of people have seen it, it's a typical flow of thought. What should we pay attention to as entrepreneurs? It's called user thinking. For example, 1000 people screaming is a typical user thinking. What is flow thinking? There is a very interesting company with a special typical thinking. It's called Investopedia. It's a website that explains financial terms. This website is particularly over the top A company that has been around for more than 20 years It doesn't even have a registration button on the website You see, this is the kind of website that is typical The eyes don't care about users Only pay attention to the traffic This website was very popular before 2008 At that time, it was the era of traffic But then it gradually fell Now with the rise of Chai GPT I guess this website should be going yellow soon For example, I am a self-media, and the trend is something that needs to be paid attention to first. But if I dare to say that I only pay attention to the self-media bloggers, it will definitely not last long. I have been doing this for too many years, and I see this example in every way. In fact, I have made such a mistake before. I once had such a special video, called "10 stocks that I like the most in the whole year". This video is very popular, and it is still ranked in the top three of my traffic. But I haven't done this kind of video in the past few years. Because it only has traffic, it has not only no benefits for my users, but also hurts them. How can I explain the 10 stocks in my 20-minute video? And I only talk about it once a year, and I can't update it in time if anything happens. This kind of content is the kind of content that simply has traffic but does not serve the user well. Some people may say, can you use it if you have 1000 screaming? I tell you, you don't need 1000 screaming, 10 screaming is enough. I am doing my own startup company, using a method called "hack growth". This method is very interesting, I will make a video to tell you about it in the future. One of his core ideas is that your growth does not come from increasing, but from saving This is actually a very traditional concept He said that if you can figure out what co-fixity the ten people who scream for you have Then you can activate this co-fixity to achieve the first wave of growth for yourself These ten people are willing to use your service even when you are in the worst situation and they are willing to use it all the time. If you can figure out the reason behind this, then this is definitely your most valuable point. You can use this point to increase your own success. Speaking of which, I must thank all the members of METO PRO. You really went through the hardest time. You watched me make so many failed attempts, and you still ignored me. I have to thank you for your support. This method is not only useful in Internet companies, but also in any other creative companies. For example, you are just a small restaurant, and you don't have much time to stay. Don't care about the new guests who come for the first time, just look for those who only have a head-on class. You go and see why these people are willing to come again. For example, if the second time you come, you are waiting for your child's parents Then you can use this point of view For example, go to the school gate to send a flyer Wait for the child to set up a meal, etc. Maybe you can pull your first wave of growth Who do you think is doing this the most? Uber Uber has a famous saying If you give me three people, I can drive a city This is the power of storage Alright, that's all I have to share with you today. I'm still not sure if you like this kind of content, so please leave me a comment below. I will continue my business, and I will share my business story with you guys. Please support the Meitou Jun project, Meitou Pro, and leave me your valuable comments. Thank you.