I'm Dr. Nicole LePera, The Holistic 
Psychologist, founder of SelfHealer Circle,  
a virtual membership community where individuals 
join together to take healing into their own  
hands. New York Times bestselling author, my 
new book, Out Reparenting the Inner Child.
Today on Big Think, we talk about the six 
archetypes of childhood trauma, what our inner  
child really is and how it impacts our daily life, 
and then we explore the process of reparing and  
how that it can create lasting transformation. But 
before we talk about our inner child and how it  
impacts us today, we need to understand the early 
impact of trauma, what trauma really is, and how  
you might have experienced it yourself. Chapter 
one, the six archetypes of childhood trauma.  
across different backgrounds and different 
life experiences, I came to see that present-  
day struggles really weren't about the present 
day. Whatever was keeping us stuck, whether it  
was the anxiety, the conflict, or the self-doubt, 
these were strategies that were actually formed  
at a time before we even understood what it meant 
to feel emotionally safe or to be truly seen. So,  
my childhood was full of a lot of love and at 
the same time, it was full of a lot of stress  
and a lot of tension. My dad worked really hard to 
financially support my family, myself, and my two  
older siblings, and my mom stayed at home to take 
care of us. Conversations about feelings were very  
rare. Conflict would erupt and would seemingly 
vanish into silence, and we would go on as if  
nothing happened. What sticks out most about my 
childhood is how little I can remember. Most of  
my childhood is really a big blank. What I can 
recall is laying up awake at night, always worried  
that someone was going to break in or always 
worried that my parents weren't going to wake  
up the next morning. My body was always alert, 
always bracing, always scanning for danger. What  
I didn't realize at the time was that I was living 
in survival mode. The anxiety, the dissociation,  
and eventually the physical symptoms were the 
result of a nervous system that was formed at  
a time where emotional safety was inconsistent. I 
saw the same pattern when I opened up my private  
practice so many years later in so many of my 
clients and I really came to understand how  
trauma isn't just something big and dramatic that 
happens. It can be small subtle moments of a lack  
of emotional regulation, attunement and repair. 
Those moments can have such big consequences on  
us. And this understanding really helped me to see 
many of the symptoms that we are understanding as  
dysfunction actually aren't dysfunction at all. 
They were formed at a time where they were our  
best strategy to cope with the environment and the 
relationships around us. I think for a really long  
time the self-help conversation, what I learned 
in school, what I was applying to my own life was  
missing the foundational role that our body 
and our nervous system plays in creating our  
experiences. From moments where we feel safe to 
moments where we feel on edge and reactive. When  
most of us hear the word trauma, we think of big 
catastrophic events, whether it's abuse, natural  
disaster, car accidents. But what I've come to 
learn is that trauma is not necessarily about  
what happened. It's really about the support that 
we have to process our experiences or to process  
what happens. So trauma really can result from 
daily experiences. So for example, something that  
some of us might have experienced in childhood is 
having a a family that's going through a divorce.  
So, one child, for instance, might have had a 
parent show up during a divorce and tell them  
that, you know, I understand what's happening. 
I'm here with you. This isn't your fault. And  
allowed that child to cry, to experience their 
distress, their grief, their upset. That's going  
to be a drastically different experience of course 
than a child for instance who same divorce maybe  
didn't have a present parent around or didn't 
have someone to be there with them through  
their upset leaving them to process their grief 
completely alone. Same experience completely  
different outcomes. And I think more commonly um 
you could have a child who comes home from school  
maybe shares an experience of feeling left out or 
bullied and very distractedly the parent might be  
scrolling on their phone telling them just to get 
over it. The message then that that leaves the  
child is that they are alone in their emotions. 
The more frequently that type of experience  
happens, a child can turn into someone who ends up 
being hyperindependent because they have learned  
that in moments of need, in showing vulnerability, 
they have come to expect that similar to their  
parents scrolling on their phone, no one will be 
present to them. For a while, trauma has also been  
believed to be a an individual experience. The 
person who has the traumatic experience has then  
the impact. What we now know from epigenetics 
is that impact can travel across generations.  
Ancestors who have lived traumatic experiences 
with food scarcity or abuse or war type trauma can  
actually pass on changes wired into our biology 
or how our genes can express themselves impacting  
future generations, ourselves included. And with 
that then we have really come to understand the  
pervasive impact of these traumatic events. again, 
whether within ourselves or passed on from our  
lineages, which can include mental and emotional 
issues and including incredible um physical issues  
as well. When people wonder, you know, if if 
everyone out there is is having a traumatic  
experience or has been traumatized, I think trauma 
is is very pervasive. I think very few of us were  
raised with the emotional attunement that we need 
it. We might have had physically present parents,  
have had our physical needs met. Maybe we didn't 
have neglect or abuse in the traditional sense.  
But what we mostly lacked, the large majority 
of us, is the attunement that our nervous  
system needed to be able to cope with big events 
and even small daily events, stressful events,  
just developmental events. So I think, you know, 
quite pervasively, um, trauma is something that  
unifies us in the human experience. Um though 
thankfully we know from neuroplasticity that  
even the wiring the survival habits and patterns 
that many of us have adapted based on traumatic  
events can be rewired can be changed throughout 
the entirety of our life experience. You know if  
you have childhood trauma if you find yourself 
repeating habits and patterns that don't serve  
you. If you find yourself feeling emotionally out 
of control in a moment where you can't show up  
the way you want to. And if you feel yourself 
acting out of character or really don't know  
who you are in life, understanding the impact of 
our past is incredibly important because for the  
large majority of us, we're still repeating the 
habits and patterns that once kept us safe. We're  
doing so and we're calling it personality. We're 
believing it's just who we are because we haven't  
been able to create space from who we've had to 
become to survive those earliest environments  
of inconsistency or neglect. And without having 
awareness of the impact that our past is having,  
we really limit oursel to be able to make new 
choices to create a future that's more aligned  
with who we want to be. Unresolved childhood 
trauma shows up in many of the habits and patterns  
that we continue to repeat day in and day out. In 
childhood, we will seek safety regardless of what  
is present or not. We will modify ourselves and we 
then rely on those habits even though the context  
has changed believing that that is the only way 
to create safety and security. So couple examples  
if in childhood shutting down during conflict was 
the thing that kept us safe. We could become an  
adult who even in a conversation with someone 
who wants to understand us or seek resolution,  
we continue to rely on that shut down pattern, 
closing oursel off from those moments of  
understanding. Or another really common one, if in 
childhood appeasing others maintained connections,  
then we become an adult who kind of pushes our own 
needs aside, says yes when we mean no, and quiet  
quietly then ends up gathering resentment because 
the people that we want to see and hear us, we're  
not actually showing up for authentically. So so 
many of us have in different areas of our life,  
especially relationally, the way that we've 
learned to create safety, which again usually  
involves modifying oursel in some way, that 
our nervous system hasn't necessarily updated,  
understanding that contexts have changed. We might 
be around safe, supportive people, and we can show  
up differently, but we don't believe that yet to 
be true because we are still reacting to a past  
that's no longer present. So really common you 
know habits and patterns that many of us develop  
are one of dissociation or of disconnecting. 
If in childhood our emotions if there was no  
space for our emotions if we maybe shared with a 
parent how upset we were and we were immediately  
shut down or shamed for our feelings. The safest 
thing to do is stop sharing is to disconnect.  
That's what dissociation is is disconnecting 
from the physical body or the emotional body.  
And then what once protected us in childhood 
ends up putting a barrier or a wall between us  
and other people. We end up being the person in a 
relationship who's having a lot of big feelings.  
We might need the support, but we might have 
loving partners on the other side of us telling  
us that I don't know how you're thinking or what 
you're feeling because you don't tell me. We've  
created a distance out of protection that is now 
sabotaging our intimacy. Other common ones is we  
can become overfunctioning. If in childhood we had 
to either kind of physically support the household  
or emotionally manage the people around us, we end 
up continuing to be hypervigilant to other people.  
We continue to please or appease putting our own 
needs to the side and we continue to show up then  
in ways where sometimes we even feel anxious 
when someone else is having an emotion. like we  
continue to have to manage someone else's feelings 
again because in childhood managing someone else's  
feelings is what avoided the explosion or avoided 
the the shame. So we continue to operate in that  
way and we end up exhausting oursel, burning 
ourselves out. We're becoming resentful of other  
people because within our relationships we don't 
leave any space for ourselves. So there are six  
really common archetypes of childhood trauma. The 
first is having a parent who denies your reality.  
This is growing up in a home where there wasn't 
space for you to share your perspectives or your  
emotions. And common example is say for instance 
you shared with your your parent that they might  
have made a joke that made you uncomfortable or 
maybe one of your siblings said something that  
upset you and you go to your parent with your with 
your upset and you're told to stop overreacting  
or maybe you're told that you're being too 
sensitive. more moments of of that, you know,  
kind of denial of what your experience is leads to 
an understanding that my emotions aren't valid and  
that my internal world can't be trusted. So, in 
adulthood, this can translate to second-guessing  
your instincts, tolerating behavior that doesn't 
sit right, not speaking up in moments where you  
do need to speak up. So, healing in this moment 
looks like reconnecting with your instincts and  
learning to stand up for yourself even when it's 
difficult to do that. Another common archetype is  
having a parent who doesn't see or hear you. This 
might look like having physically present parents,  
but emotionally they are absent or they feel 
like they're a million miles away. So, a little  
kid might come home really excitedly showing 
their parent their new drawing. And the parent  
might just kind of say, "Oh, yeah, that's nice." 
without even looking up for whatever it is that  
they're doing. more moments of doing that, right, 
result and translate to the feeling that we're not  
actually there. We're invisible. What we have to 
say or do doesn't matter. And then in adulthood,  
it translates to those behaviors where we might 
not speak up in a group. We might not feel like  
we're being heard when we do speak up. So 
ultimately, the goal is to reconnect and to  
see and hear ourselves first. um to learn how 
to validate our own experience without overly  
relying on someone else's validation and to seek 
relationships where people are actually interested  
and value um our perspective and what it is that 
we have to say. The third archetype is having a  
parent who vicariously lives through you or who 
molds and shapes you. And this is really common  
in childhood where there's a lot of pressure to 
perform or to achieve in some way. A child gets  
the feeling that love is conditional, is based 
on them performing, where certain aspects of  
our behavior are celebrated and other aspects 
are ignored. In adulthood, this translates to  
overwork, p perfectionism, trying to avoid even 
the most mild criticism because we have learned  
in the deepest sense that our worth depends on how 
we're performing or what it is that we're doing.  
So healing for this archetype really looks 
like learning how to embrace our imperfections,  
how to show up as a human and how to disconnect 
our worth from what it is that we're doing. The  
fourth archetype is having a parent who doesn't 
model boundaries. So whether this looks like  
physical violations where our physical space, our 
physical body or our personal space like diaries  
are violated or even more commonly our emotional 
space. It looks like having a parent who relies on  
us, vents to us, shares their problems, looks 
to us for emotional support. And this gives  
us then the message that love and connection 
means us caring for someone else, which then  
translates into adulthood is overextending oursel 
in relationships and even at times feeling guilty  
when we have our own wants or our own needs. So 
healing really is deciding and determining where  
we need boundaries and then learning how to set 
and honor our boundaries. Noticing moments where  
we feel that old sense of over responsibility 
for someone else. And learning how to create  
separation where we can very lovingly say that's 
yours and this is mine and I can still care very  
deeply about you even though you're over there 
and I'm separate from you. Another archetype  
of childhood trauma is having a parent who 
is overly focused on appearance. And this  
grows from households where appearance, physical 
appearance, family appearance mattered more than  
emotional connection. So whether you had a parent 
that criticized your weight, your clothing, or  
the way you presented yourself, more consistently 
you receive those messages, the more you begin to  
tie your worth on your appearance. you become an 
adult who's overly focused on how you look. Um,  
sometimes you end up working tirelessly to 
present yourself in a certain way. You might  
pursue goals that aren't yours based on appearance 
purposes. So really, the goal is to separate value  
from how you're looking to someone else so that 
you can really come to the understanding that  
your worth is inherent based on who you are and 
you are lovable with all of your imperfections.  
The final archetype of childhood trauma is having 
a parent who can't regulate their emotions.  
This looks like a really erratic, unpredictable 
parent. One who might be really calm, grounded,  
nice one minute and then explosive, overreactive, 
or even shut down the next minute. Slam doors,  
silent treatments teach you that emotions are 
dangerous and the only way to keep safe is to  
be hyper vigilant to what's happening around 
you. Always on edge, always on watch. which  
translates then to hypervigilance in adulthood. It 
translates to overreactivity or our own inability  
then to navigate our own emotional reaction. So 
healing involves understanding when our body is  
flooded. Learning how to pause and to calm our 
body down so that we can show up more grounded  
and more intentionally instead of overreacting 
to emotions around us in a more panicked state.  
The most common childhood archetypes are having 
a parent who doesn't see or hear you or who  
can't regulate their own emotions. I think this is 
really pervasive, common, widespread because very  
few adults have learned the tools themselves to be 
with their own emotions and or to see or reflect  
or hold space for another individual's emotions. 
And these are really habits and patterns that are  
passed down through generations. So if in their 
own childhood our parents that is if they didn't  
learn or have a calm grounded regulated emotional 
presence then they themselves aren't going to have  
the tools to be emotionally present regulated 
ground it to be able to truly see or hear their  
child even if they very much want to in their 
intention. So some really common male adaptive  
coping skills that developed in childhood that now 
sabotage our relationships are hyperindependence  
where in childhood if relying on someone came with 
hurt or with disappointment the safest thing that  
we can do is to stop relying on someone else. 
We learn to deal with our problems alone. We  
learn to shove down our emotions and we learn how 
not to ask for help. We go about life on our own.  
And of course then in adulthood, what kept us 
safe from disappointment in childhood ends up  
then cutting us off from the connections that 
we very desperately need. Another really common  
pattern that sabotages our relationship is by 
people pleasing. What kept us safe in childhood,  
deferring to someone else's wants or needs, now 
ends up disconnecting us from the connections  
that we want. At one time, learning to say, 
"I don't know. I don't care. whatever it is  
that you wanted. It might have been the easiest 
path to maintain those early connections, but now  
it just disconnects us from ourselves. We end up 
not showing up as who we are, not expressing what  
we need. And over time, we end up growing then 
resentful of the people that we're in relationship  
with. When really, right, we're still operating 
under that assumption that we can't or it's unsafe  
to share our perspectives, to share our opinions, 
or to share our wants and needs with someone else.  
So, coping with childhood trauma is essentially 
our best strategy that we can use to deal with or  
to get through the moment. A lot of times it looks 
like distracting oursel. looks like scrolling,  
staying busy, shutting down, avoiding conflict. 
It's the quickest, easiest way to decrease the  
discomfort. But in reality, the habit and pattern 
is still underlying. So healing involves not just  
dealing with the moment or getting through to 
the next moment. It actually involves rewiring  
the way our nervous system is working so that we 
can experience the moment in a new way and make a  
new choice. Actually create a new learning in our 
body around each of the old moments that resulted  
in an older habit or pattern. So a quick example 
of the difference between coping and healing is  
say for instance you're in an argument with your 
partner. Coping might look like leaving the room,  
shutting down or going silent. Where healing might 
look like noticing the panic rising in your chest,  
your breath quickening. It look like 
slowing down your breathing so that you  
can help regulate your nervous system just long 
enough so that you can stay present and teach  
yourself a new outcome. That conflict doesn't 
necessarily mean disconnection or rejection.  
A lot of people begin a healing journey on their 
own through journaling, through reflection,  
through, you know, self-care practices. Though 
the reality is most of our wounds were formed  
in relationship. So to truly heal, we need to 
be in relationship. Um healing happens when we  
have the presence of safe and security when we 
can vulnerably express ourselves whether it is  
to you know supportive professionals or to loved 
ones to create the safe space of presence in our  
relationships is really what most of us need to 
heal. So any parent figure that is watching it,  
I want to wholeheartedly um acknowledge to you 
the enormity of the task of raising another human  
being. To be in care of a developing human that 
is quite literally completely dependent on you  
is in my opinion there's no greater uh role that 
we could play here. So after acknowledging that  
I want to acknowledge also your humanity that 
you too were impacted by the parenting that you  
have had in your own childhood which can for many 
parents make it really difficult to show up in the  
ways that we truly want to or know that we're 
capable of. So my message to parents is always  
one of compassionate understanding of how we have 
become the person that we have become and how our  
childhood has impacted us which then unfortunately 
is a uh cycle that gets carried on. Though as  
with all of my work, my hope is that you hear 
empowerment and compassion in this understanding  
so that you too can show up giving yourself 
some new tools so that then you could give your  
children some new tools as well. So any human or 
or parent that sees themselves in in these cycles,  
um I hope to arm you with not only again 
graceful, compassionate, understanding, but  
some new tools to begin to to break those cycles 
and a reminder that in moments of of high stress,  
um high need when a child is in a disregulated 
state, those are the moments where we are most  
likely to sadly enough rely on old patterns where 
we snap or we disconnect or we shut down. So the  
the emphasis for parents or any of us trying to 
change is to practice that change, practice new  
choices, giving ourselves support, relying on the 
support of other adults in our life to help us to  
regulate outside of those moments because in the 
pressure cooker um of a moment where there's a  
child disregulated who needs you then to be the 
person to calm yourself down, right? Sometimes  
we quite literally can't unless we're practicing 
outside of those moments or even taking a moment,  
taking a couple deep breaths before entering the 
bedroom of a disregulated child. That will be so  
much of a better circumstance for both you and 
your child than just trying to get there so quick.  
Because when we get there and we're overstressed 
or overreactive, we might not be showing up the  
way we want. So even in moments where we have 
dependence like children, we still have to care  
for oursel as an individual and make sure that 
we're eating well, we're sleeping well, we have  
outlets for our own stress or support in our own 
life, whatever it is available so that we can have  
the resources to show up as the grounded presence 
that we want to be giving to our children.
Chapter 2, the inner child.
So inner child oftent times is believed to be 
an ab abstract or a metaphysical type concept  
but in reality it's a body-based memory. In 
childhood before we had logic before we had  
language we had sensation and we had reflex. In 
psychological terms this is known as implicit  
emotional memory. It's that bodybased learning um 
that again happened in our earliest environments,  
which is why so many of us can logically know 
we're safe. Our partner's not leaving us. Yet in  
those moments, our body, our emotional body takes 
over and we spiral into a belief that we're being  
rejected or that we're being abandoned because 
our body speaks even quicker than our logical  
mind does. Which is why for many of us insight and 
awareness doesn't translate into changed action  
because we have all of these implicit emotional 
memories, these scripts in some ways that are  
running behind the scenes dictating how we feel 
and then what we do even when we logically know  
better or no different. The inner child shows up 
not only in our reactions but it shows up in our  
adulthood as our habits and patterns and even our 
identities. we become so merged um with the habits  
and patterns that we begin to believe that they 
are just who we are and we lose sight that they  
are who we've had to become. So the overachieving 
child right might feel like we're just driven when  
in reality continuing to seek success came from a 
childhood where love was conditional. For others,  
independence can feel like a choice when 
in reality it was a protective stance when  
we couldn't depend on people around us to show up 
for us. And sensitivity for some of us feels like  
our temperament, but really it was born out of an 
environment that was so unpredictable that we had  
to develop a vigilance to the environment around 
us to protect ourselves or to keep ourselves safe.  
The most common place that we meet our survival 
strategies are in moments where we're stressed out  
or where we're feeling disregulated and seemingly 
mindlessly, right? We we reach for our phone and  
we we start scrolling. We reach for food and we 
start eating. um we reach for substances and we  
start using things and we then confuse right 
those things for just a byproduct of who we  
are or our lack of willpower when in reality all 
of those actions are our nervous system or our  
body's best attempt at finding our way to safety 
or to some semblance of connection in absence of  
that. You can tell when you or someone else is 
reacting from their inner child and not their  
adult self by the size of their reaction. When 
it's really big, overwhelming, all-consuming,  
all or nothing, that's usually a sign that it's 
from an older time. And I'm sure many of us can  
call to mind a moment where someone's reaction 
took us by surprise, seems disproportionate,  
left us confused. Those are moments where again 
of more often than not it signals a similar past  
experience where that person whether it is oursel 
or someone else didn't have the support that we  
needed to cope. So reaction size is a really 
great marker. Inner child reactions feel so  
intense and disproportionate to the moment 
because we are in a state of what is called  
emotional flooding where physiologically we are 
actually having that big of a reaction. We have  
cortisol coursing through our body and our we are 
literally flooded. our amygdala or the emotional  
center of our of our brain is overactivated while 
the preffrontal cortex the very logical grounding  
part of our brain becomes underactivated. So 
in that flooded moment in a very real sense we  
become that reaction and that's really important 
to understand because so many of us right we  
can shame that reaction or have been shamed when 
someone tells us just to calm down if our reaction  
doesn't match the moment but in our own bodies it 
does feel as big as it is that we're experiencing  
it because it is big. we are flooded with emotion 
and we don't have the ability to return as quickly  
to a grounded state of presence where we can have 
a more reasonable or maybe responsible reaction.  
So a really common example of a inner child type 
reaction is you're sitting at work and you get  
an email about a meeting that's coming up and you 
immediately begin to spiral at your desk thinking  
worrying about getting fired. So in your adult 
mind, right, you might know that you're doing  
well at work. your last evaluation went great, but 
that spiraling reaction of the inner child, right,  
might have come from a time where it was more 
inconsistent your environment or unpredictable.  
So, in a similar way, now you're bracing for the 
worst case where that email means that you might  
be losing your job when in reality that's not 
the case at all. Understanding human development  
can help us shift from seeing uh these moments of 
reactivity, these symptoms or these dysfunctional  
habits and patterns. Shift from seeing it as a 
deficit to seeing it as a very very intelligent  
adaptation to our earlier circumstances. So if we 
can understand all of the ways in which our needs  
weren't met or begin to explore what it is that 
we need it in a given moment, then we can create  
a shift then in how we're experiencing ourselves 
in those moments. So in childhood, we really adapt  
based on one question. We observe and notice 
what happens when we reach for connection. And  
if connection was consistently available when we 
reached out for it, we end up learning that our  
inner child learns that closeness is safe and 
we develop a secure attachment. If though when  
we reached for comfort or closeness, it was 
unpredictable, it was overwhelming or it was  
unavailable, then we might end up clinging toward 
any possible closeness or connection that might be  
available. We might end up bracing oursel because 
at one time we're used to it being so overwhelming  
or if it was unavailable we might end up pulling 
away entirely developing the belief again that I  
don't want it or need it as we do in an avoidant 
style because it wasn't available to us at one  
time. So we can think of the inner child as this 
kind of being inside of us that learned to expect  
certain experiences from an in another individual 
within our relationship and then based on those  
expectations that becomes what we commonly know 
as our attachment style. Children develop roles  
or learn how to show up in their environments and 
in their relationships to secure connection and  
belonging because in childhood that is what 
sustains our existence. So in childhood if  
we have learned that there was no space for us 
right we might turn into an underachiever who  
continues to keep ourselves small not to share 
ourselves with the world because at one time  
avoiding that presence in our childhood was 
was safe. Overachieving on the other side of  
that is very common. When we learn that love was 
conditional, we begin to make our sense of worth  
based on or our value based on our achievement 
or based on how we're showing up in the world.  
Again, people pleasing is a is a very common 
experience. If in childhood tending to the world,  
the emotional climate around us created safety, 
then we continue to be the overextender or the  
caretaker in our adult relationships. When we 
ignore our inner child and its unmet needs,  
it doesn't go away. It continues to drive our 
habitual over or underreactions or even the roles  
that we're playing in our relationships. When we 
lacked attunement, when we lacked attention, when  
we lacked safety, our nervous system will continue 
to seek it out in the only way that it once knew  
how. And the longer we continue to repeat or 
live within those habits, the more we become  
convinced that there's no other possible way to 
be that that is just who we are and how we are  
not understanding that it is our inner child and 
it's unmet needs that are driving those habitual  
reactions. So until we begin to acknowledge the 
role that our past is playing and begin to create  
new choices, we become fused. we call personality 
patterns that we had to develop to adapt to our  
earliest circumstances and reflexes. We take 
them to be a just who we are when in reality  
they're who we've learned to be. Understanding 
the impact that our parents had on us really  
means acknowledging and observing all of the ways 
in which we are still seeking safety or trying to  
create security when we didn't once have that. And 
being able to acknowledge maybe the limitations of  
our parents as again individuals who were raised 
by parents themselves who might not have had the  
tools can give us a bit of context can give us a 
bit of grace and compassion maybe for ourselves  
maybe for our parents. Though it absolutely 
doesn't remove the impact. It's helpful to  
hold space for both when we can understand what 
shaped us and at the same time acknowledge the  
impact that it might still be having in our 
life. Becoming aware of our inner child is  
the first step in changing those actions or those 
reactions because without awareness we are going  
to continue to run on autopilot doing the same 
things that we have always done. Though change  
is created through new choices um new choices that 
begin with our body, new actions that we can take,  
giving our body a felt sense of security where we 
didn't once have that. So we really need to pair  
insight with action. Our nervous system doesn't 
learn by logic alone alone. It learns by new lived  
experiences. Which is why through all the work 
that I offer, it is built on the foundation of  
reconnecting with our body, seeing those moments 
where we're overwhelmed, flooded, reliving older  
reactions or reenacting our past so that we can 
actually begin to make those new choices. Again,  
quite literally teaching our nervous system a new 
way to experience the present moment so that I can  
not only do things differently, I can come to 
believe and then ultimately feel differently.  
A really immediate way that all of us can get 
reconnected with our inner child is by finding  
an old photograph of that child and taking a 
moment and taking a look at it. When you look at a  
photograph, your brain will automatically begin to 
react to the size of yourself, the vulnerability,  
your facial expression, and it will immediately 
then increase compassion and empathy and make  
it really hard to dismiss that little being 
or call it too dramatic or too over the top  
and help you really to tune into maybe what 
that felt experience of childhood looked like  
or was like for you. And even if you don't have 
a a photograph, kind of accessing our childhood  
through our senses can be an incredibly helpful 
practice. Um, even just taking a moment right now  
and closing your eyes and maybe calling to mind 
a childhood home of yours or maybe a particular  
room in the home or a space where you spent a lot 
of time as a child and taking a moment and really  
tuning into whatever is coming alive in your 
mind. Maybe even smelling the aromomas or seeing  
the sights of whatever it was that was around you. 
Taking a moment to notice what you're doing. What  
facial expression do you have on? What does your 
body look like? How are you holding yourself? Is  
anyone else present around you? And instead of 
needing to focus or worry too much about the  
accuracy or the details or even thinking about 
what happened, maybe just take a moment and drop  
in and ask yourself, what did I need? Did I 
need attention? Did I need safety? Did I need  
protection? Because this is really a practice of 
reconnecting with that being that still is inside  
of you. It's a practice of empathy, of being with 
in a compassionate way that part of you so that  
you can give yourself then an opportunity to begin 
to incorporate that part into your daily life and  
begin to show up differently and show that inner 
child a new response from your now adult self.
Chapter 3. Reparenting for lasting transformation.
Reparenting the inner child is beginning to step 
in as a compassionate, nurturing, caring adult,  
perhaps an adult that you never had present 
in in your life. And now in modern society,  
reparing in my opinion is more important than 
ever because a lot of the habits and patterns  
that many of us have carried from our childhood 
out of protection are rewarded in society. Whether  
it's the overachiever who's exhausting themselves 
trying to gain value or worth in their actions  
that is rewarded by a lot of the society around us 
who sees that as drive who sees that as ambition  
whether or not it was you know the person who is 
more shut down in a moment of conflict is being  
termed as easy lowmaintenance and a lot of those 
actions I think are rewarded again in society as  
it is currently um that aren't actually healthy 
for us as individuals. So as we think about our  
inner child and a journey of reparing, I think 
naturally it can be a little confusing of where  
to start, how much of my past I need to be aware 
of to even get started. And the most practical  
powerful place to start is right here, right now. 
Um again, it's less about the story or the details  
of what happened and more about what is happening. 
The most foundational practice to support reparing  
is to begin to honor the presence of our past 
in our in our current moment. And to do that,  
the number one practice I'm always talking about, 
especially in my membership, self-healer circle,  
is beginning to develop a conscious awareness of 
oursel day-to-day. And that can look as simple  
as what I call beginning a practice of daily 
conscious check-ins, which is setting maybe an  
alarm on your phone for one to two times a day 
or maybe pairing this practice with something  
you already do every day, drinking your coffee 
in the morning or something that you do before  
bed at night. And what the practice really 
looks like is in that moment that the alarm  
goes off or you're taking a moment to pause and 
to refocus your attention not on what's happening  
in the world around you, but back to yourself. 
Beginning to notice how you feel in your body,  
how is your breathing, how are your muscles, are 
you feeling at ease in your body in that moment?  
And beginning to notice what the thoughts are 
that are going through your mind. The more we  
begin to practice consciousness in moments where 
we're not having a reaction, we can begin to build  
the bridge then to the moments where we need to 
um show up differently in those more reactionary  
or flooded moments. But the practice begins again 
as all things will with awareness with locating  
our self uh in real time perhaps in an adult 
body in different circumstances to remind our  
inner child that the circumstances have changed. 
I have things available to me now. Perhaps I can  
begin to have my needs met in a new way. And 
that's what reparenting actually is. It's a  
practice of learning how to show up in a new way 
in support of those deeper underlying unmet needs.  
Reparenting is different from coping. Coping 
is a way, a means to get through each moment,  
to continue to allow life to function around 
us without actually changing what's driving a  
lot of these dysfunctional habits or patterns. 
And that's what reparenting actually allows us  
to do. It allows us to show up in the moment in 
a new way. So, say for instance, you're waiting  
for a response text back or an email and a lot of 
time is going by, right? coping in that moment,  
you might feel your body begin to elevate with 
a sense of urgency. And as per that urgency,  
you might begin to fire off text or rethink 
your state, whatever you said last to them,  
overanalyzing what your response is or convincing 
yourself even that they must be upset with you.  
That is why they are not responding to you. 
Where reparenting might look like noticing that  
urgency building in your chest, beginning to relax 
the muscles that you might be tensing, beginning  
to slow the quickening breath that you might be 
noticing, and giving yourself just a moment of  
pause before you react in that old way. So that 
again you can teach yourself a new experience in  
that moment which might be distance doesn't 
mean disconnection doesn't mean rejection or  
abandonment instead of just coping with the moment 
and easing the discomfort as quickly as possible  
by trying to reestablish connection. So the more 
we practice in those moments of connecting with  
oursel of regulating our body of our nervous 
system in a new way, we're actually reversing  
that pattern and we're beginning to strengthen 
the pathway to our prefrontal cortex so that we  
can continue then to show up in a more grounded, 
more reasonable, more responsive way into the  
future. So there are a lot of misconceptions about 
reparing. Uh, a really common one is that reparing  
is a blaming of the parents. Reparenting actually 
isn't blaming parents or our past at all. It's  
simply acknowledging the impact that our past is 
still having on our present moment. Another really  
common misconception about reparing is that 
it's bringing us back in time or it's keeping  
us stuck in our childhood experiences when in 
reality our nervous system is already doing that.  
Reparenting is our opportunity to update those 
past programs into ones that are more aligned  
with the future that we want to live and to 
create for oursel. Uh, another common I think  
misconception about reparing and really healing 
in general is that it can be immediate and that  
is just simply not the case. It took years for us 
multiple repeated interactions or experiences for  
all of these patterns to form. So change equally 
is going to take time, consistent practices of  
new choices. Though the the byproduct is true and 
lasting transformation. When we begin to reparent  
oursel internally, we develop a greater capacity 
to deal with stressful experiences. Our nervous  
system doesn't immediately react into a state that 
feels overwhelming or out of control. Um, we learn  
how to navigate our reactions. We learn how to 
downshift or recover more quickly when we do  
feel stressed out so that we can remain calm and 
grounded and in choice as opposed to in reaction.  
The most important step of reparing is to remind 
oursel of the present moment that we're in and of  
the safety that is available in any given moment. 
So really helpful daily practices are something  
as simple as just taking a look around our current 
space or our current environment and maybe taking  
a moment to note three to five neutral objects or 
even comforting safe objects that you might see  
presently available. Uh another really helpful 
practice is to slow our breathing, slow our  
movement. All of those slowing downs activate 
our parasympathetic nervous system, sending  
signals of safety to us. Now, acknowledgement 
is really helpful when we can understand what is  
happening instead of shaming the reaction that 
we're having in a moment. Reminding ourselves  
that we are safe in this moment, that it's an 
old reaction. Not negating what we're feeling,  
understanding it can help us be more grounded, 
more present, and more in a compassionate state  
of awareness as opposed to a shameful, 
disconnecting state that many of us often  
go into at the first sign of stress. One of the 
main things that you will gain from this reparing  
journey is you will increase your capacity to 
deal with life's stressful, upsetting moments.  
you'll gain a sense of resilience uh where you 
can stay grounded and intentional in choice  
regardless of how you feel or what's happening 
around you. And it also gives you the ability to  
expand your awareness and your experience of all 
of the different parts that make us who we are,  
including our inner child, because it's still 
with us today. Not only does it contain all of  
the trauma and unmet needs, but it's actually a 
very beautiful space of creativity and joy and  
playfulness. So the ultimate goal of this work 
is not to separate oursel from what happened or  
the parts that are uncomfortable. It's actually to 
wholeheartedly embrace all that is who we are. And  
on this journey to get started, it's it's really 
learning the moments where our body is becoming  
stressed because those are the moments where those 
older patterns are going to come to the surface.  
So even just taking moments throughout your day 
to when you're doing those conscious check-ins,  
noticing how high your stress is feeling. Meaning 
the more tension you're holding in your muscles,  
the quicker your breath is, the faster your heart 
rate, the more stress your body is under. So in  
those moments, beginning to teach yourself how 
to calm down. Maybe by pausing what you're doing,  
taking a walk again, slowing your breath, slowing 
your movement, that's increasing your capacity,  
by helping your body come down from a stressful 
experience. And that's what we want to do is we  
want to have a lot of capacity to deal with 
more and more stress. In addition, of course,  
to acknowledging those moments are probably a 
moment where your inner child has been activated.  
There's probably something similar happening in 
your environment or the way you're feeling in your  
body that is contributing to why you're having 
that level of a reaction. And so these practices  
really help us do both things at once, which 
is understand the body's role of our past, how  
it's coloring our present through increased stress 
and reactivity, but it's also psychologically and  
emotionally making space for all of these 
different parts, our past, our present,  
and our future. Emotionally and relationally, 
we feel more calm and grounded. We begin to  
engage with other people relationally in a more 
grounded way. We show up more authentically. We're  
better able to directly communicate our wants and 
needs. We can shift out of all of those different  
roles of the caretaker or the overachiever in our 
relationship where we're fixing everything into  
a state where our soul focus becomes remaining 
authentically connected. We no longer just worry  
about losing the people around us. We actually 
assess whether or not we feel safe and authentic  
when we're around the people around us. I think a 
natural byproduct of this journey for a lot of us,  
those of us who have parents that are still 
living, is to bring our learnings, bring our  
awareness and have conversations, bring it back to 
our parents. And it's really important obviously  
to understand, of course, if we have access to 
our parents, right, that not all of the time  
might we get the exact reaction that we want to 
receive from our parents. Of course, we want to be  
able to share with them the impact that our past 
have had, their actions or inactions. And we want  
to hear compassion. We want to hear them validate 
our experience. We want to hear them having space  
for how it was for us. And while some of us might 
receive that, not all of us will receive that from  
our parents because our parents are humans too, 
right? they become stuck in their beliefs, their  
perspectives, how things were for them. And many 
can feel very defensive or attacked, especially  
when they tried their very best in a very 
well-meaning way to show up in care of each of us.  
So, it's important to understand and ask ourself 
what the expectation is that we're having when  
we're engaging in conversation because of course 
we all want to have understanding and validation,  
but can we make space for the possibility that 
we might not fully get that from our loved ones,  
our parents especially? So, is it enough for me 
to validate my own experience even if what I'm  
hearing on the other side isn't um what I had 
wanted to see or to hear from my parents. And  
ultimately, us being honest, whether or not they 
give us the reaction that we want, whether or not  
it brings us closer to our parents and eventually 
they're able to hear us in a future, what we're  
doing is we're validating our inner child. So 
we will have a different experience of that  
interaction. One where we maybe had a voice for 
the first time where we didn't have a voice when  
we were in a course in childhood. A really common 
experience that many of us have when we learn new  
information and begin to implement new information 
in our lives is we very excitedly want those  
around us, our loved ones, especially our parents 
to get on board to gain the same perspective or  
awareness and to use the tool show up differently. 
especially if we're gaining the value of them  
ourselves. Though the reality of it is, as many 
of us realize, when we begin to change ourselves,  
change is hard. It takes a daily commitment. It 
takes action. It takes walking through discomfort,  
creating capacity where there wasn't. And the 
reality is for a lot of us, our parents, change  
is too hard, right? They've become so stuck in 
their ways that it becomes too unfamiliar. the new  
information is too much and the new actions are 
overwhelming. So having that awareness, especially  
when we're feeling frustrated that someone 
doesn't see how exciting this information is or  
they're not doing the steps that we know that they 
would benefit so greatly from. Again, we have to  
understand that while our while while our nervous 
system can create incredible transformation,  
growth and change, it actually prefers the 
familiar habits, the repeated patterns because it  
gains a false sense of security. So, knowing that 
might give us a little bit more compassion for the  
person in our life who's struggling to hear new 
information or integrate new information. And  
if you are that person, right, struggling to do 
something about what it is that you're learning,  
having that level of compassion as well, right, 
it is so difficult to translate in insight into  
action because we're challenging our body, 
our nervous systems capacity. We're pushing  
ourselves a little closer, right, out of our zone 
of comfort and tolerance into that zone of stress.  
And if we don't have the tools or the ability to 
deal with stress, we're going to repeat the old  
patterns and then feel even more shameful and 
more broken. So the the practical then step is  
to break whatever it is intention that you want 
to set for yourself down into the smallest most  
accessible choice possible and then still knowing 
that it's going to be uncomfortable. It's going to  
challenge you and push you out of your comfort 
zone. uh in my community self-healer circle  
we talk every month about a concept called a 
small daily promise. It's really emphasizing  
the smallalness of the choices that we can stay 
committed to because the bigger the choice even  
though naturally if we discover that our life 
is you know not functioning the way we want it.  
It's so natural to want to re reform our life 
reshape our life you know 20 in 24 hours but  
then the more new we're doing the more stressed we 
become. So, it's the smallalness of the promise,  
staying committed in action, anticipating that it 
will be uncomfortable, and then showing up through  
discomfort time and time again, not shaming 
oursel when we fall back into old habits,  
but giving oursel every new opportunity 
to create and maintain that new choice.  
One idea that I hope anyone would take away from 
this conversation is an awareness of where we've  
come from and why we are the way we are today. And 
at whatever age that you come to this awareness  
um I would say that you are a step ahead um of 
so many other people on this planet. So many  
people will live and die living in autopilot 
repeating patterns that don't serve them.  
So awareness is something to be celebrated, not 
to be shamed because awareness to some extent is  
a sense of of readiness. And we can't change what 
we're not even aware is present. So having that  
moment and seeing ourselves in action or knowing 
the patterns that we continue to repeat that don't  
serve us is the foundation on upon which we build 
then new choices or new action points. And there's  
never a kind of concept or it's never a a too 
late. It's a opportunity at any moment that  
you become aware to show up in a new way and 
create ultimately a new future for yourself.
Want to support the channel? Join the Big Think  
Members community where you get 
access to videos early adree.