美股不是华尔街专利大家好我是米头君你们的美股探路者Palantir这家公司在过去两年的暴涨想必咱各位看官都有所耳闻了作为当今美股市场上少有的AI应用层公司Palantir的股价在两年内已经翻了几十倍公司一次又一次的用经验的业绩表现耍信着人们对于AI的想象力现如今Palantir已然成为了当今美股市场上估值最高的公司没有质疑 不过随着股价的暴涨围绕在公司周围的质疑声分支他来一个做数据分析的公司凭什么能这么赚钱呢做数据分析的公司那么多凭什么就你能做AI你的互成盒真的有那么深吗很多人可能不知道的是其实公司的增长并没有想象中那么惊人也不过就是30%到40%美股上有类似增长的科技公司数不胜数而且公司的总客户数也就不过700多个在美股SARS公司中甚至都排不上号 那如果Palantir的产品真的那么不可或缺为什么收入增长会如此平庸又为什么没有多少用户使用呢像这样的制医生在本周来到了顶峰经济学人发文称Palantir不仅仅是高估而且是有史以来最被高估的公司香园资本近期也公开宣布要做空Palantir理由也是过度被高估想脑中人推Palantir的股价一周内大跌了20% So is Palantir really being overestimated? Is there a You will find that all the strange phenomena of the company can be found from this set of technical principles. 据我所知市面上还没有任何人从这个角度来解读这家公司这本来是一期我放在美投Pro中的视频反响非常好正好这周关于Panentier的风波不断我就拿出来分享给大家所有看官如果你想真正安心投资这家公司那么本期视频你一定要看完 You may know that Palantir is a company that does data analysis for military and enterprise. But do you know what it does specifically? If you are interested in this question, I highly recommend that you go to Palantir's AIP account meeting. I also did an interpretation on Mito Pro on YouTube. Here, Mito Jun will quickly introduce these cases to you. The current human resources company Morson They used PLTR to select candidates Increased the ratio of post-pregnancy to 129% The efficiency of the candidates was increased by 53% PerExcel, a clinical drug research company Through PLTR, the clinical trial preparation time From the original 10 to 12 weeks Shortened to 3-6 weeks Obviously, the listing of new treatment plans was accelerated After the collaboration with PLT2, AT&T has reduced the amount of money to 40% With PLT2, the fast food company Wendis can solve the problem of short storage and distribution of different stores in 5 minutes Before that, it takes 15 people to do it all day You will find that all these cases have a common feature That is, all these companies have greatly improved their operating efficiency through PLT2 service So how did Piotr do it? This is to mention his core technology, a method of the theory of the body, called ontology. If you want to invest in Piotr, you have to understand this theory of the body. His business model, the currency and the potential for future growth are all hidden under this concept. What is the fundamental theory? Simply put, it is a method of translating all the actions and events of the enterprise into data. How to do it? All the things that happen in the real world can actually be abstracted into a combination of three basic elements. The physical, the event, and the cultural director. Let's take an example A person did something Left some traces and effects For example, Zhang San wiped the floor of the office The office will not have to wipe for the next three days A person, for example, Zhang San, is called a corpse Did something For example, wiping the floor is called an incident The traces and effects left For example, three days without wiping the floor It's called a plague In the real world, everything that happens in the enterprise can be abstracted into a logical combination of these three elements. After the combination, a standard language that the computer can understand can be formed. When you have translated all the behaviors into this language, you can build a mathematical model to do simulation tests and data analysis. 这个模式其实就跟航天夜最喜欢用的一个技术数子轮生有点类似大家想一下科学家们要怎么知道火箭发射出去后的运行轨迹呢火箭发射有很多变量每个变量都会对火箭发射轨迹产生影响科学家们肯定不能通过一次次的发射实验去找到结论那怎么办呢这就需要数字轮生 It will now build a high-resistance virtual model in the computer This model will restore all the parameters of the rocket and the influence between each other Then, through simulation experiments, to predict the operating circuit in the real world In this way, scientists can predict various complicated situations without launching rockets And what PLTR does is actually very similar It is through the theory of the body In its own system I made an identical digital enterprise in imitation After having this digital enterprise PLTR can simulate and test To see the operation of the enterprise in all situations See if there is any room to improve And find some free solutions To improve the efficiency of the enterprise PLTR的独特之处不仅仅在于这个本体论的应用还在于它有一套自己独有的数据分析流程这套流程可以说全世界目前只有PLTR能做也是它互成何的基础下图是我总结的PLTR这套系统的运行流程这里的每一个模块都分管一部分数据任务单独任何一块都是PLTR独一无二的技术 Today, Mito is not going to talk about technical details here. This part is harder and more attractive. I will introduce it in detail in Mito Pro. You can take a look at it if you are interested. We will briefly introduce their roles here. It's convenient for us to understand the real name of the company. The first part, Pipeline Builder, It mainly cleans and processes data. PLTR will input all the information inside the client into this platform first, and convert it into usable data. Then these data will be input into a platform called Foundry. Foundry will process these data according to the method of the theory of the body And give the final analysis results and solution. The biggest feature of Foundry is that it can distribute the data within the enterprise in different systems Use unified logic to manage and transfer And ultimately make the best decision on the company level Then, the decisions from Foundry will be sent to the Apollo platform. The Apollo platform is responsible for ensuring that these decisions can be made correctly. The difficulty here is that it can ensure that the Foundry-made plan can be run simultaneously under different devices and different locations. If I introduced you to POTR before the second or third year, it would be over here. In fact, the whole platform of POTR is already very powerful just because of the technology of these few modules. It can completely understand the data of various internal systems in the enterprise and build up a relatively automated workflow. This is already a one-off existence in the industry. However, this seemingly powerful platform has always had a big problem That is, too dependent on artificial experts The threshold for using the Fangzui is very high You not only have to understand business, but also have to understand data and modeling Such talent is not easy to find So most companies also have to establish a PLTR group to apply this model And Fang Zhui can't make a decision completely independently He's more like a consultant You need an expert to ask reasonable questions Find the path of decision making through codes And finally, pass the artificial evaluation to make decisions The whole process is also quite efficient But it's too difficult and highly dependent on experts This makes PLTR products still difficult to promote on a large scale However, all this changed after two or three years, because the AIP platform appeared. This is also the key to the company's stock price rise in the past two years. The appearance of AIP actually installed an AI brain for PLTR. It has been targeted to solve the two major problems mentioned above. First, the use of the gate has been greatly reduced. PLTR is no longer a system that requires a complex expert to use. Ordinary employees can also ask PLTR directly like using CHI-GBT. For example, the manager of the airline can directly ask why this flight is frequently delayed. AIP can automatically extract data from various systems, analyze the cause, generate a chart, find key factors, and give final improvement suggestions. The second and most important thing is that AIP has the ability to automate. AIP can use the real-time data and historical experience provided by Fondry to make more accurate predictions and analyses and directly make decisions. After making the decision, it can also be passed back to Apollo to execute. Due to the whole process, no artificial experts need to interfere, which not only greatly improves the efficiency of work, but also improves the analysis and decision-making of AI. In fact, after the AIP platform, the companies that can be established have expanded. This is why the company's performance has grown significantly in the past two years. The whole process seems a bit abstract, let's use a real example to see how this system works. Suppose I am an airline, and such a flight has a delay, how do each of the PLT-L modules work? First, the system will collect flight, aircraft, passengers, and other data through the pipeline builder, and give the Foundry to build an initial model. After the model is built, the Foundry detected that the delay may be caused by the oil pressure system of the aircraft. At this time, the AIP will automatically analyze whether there are safety issues when it switches from the anti-drift to the maintenance record and flight history. If the analysis results are that there are safety issues, then the AIP will automatically recommend arranging this aircraft to be repaired and temporarily replace other flights for take-off. And this information will be passed on to the executive party Apollo. After Apollo receives the command, the whole process will be automatically sent to the airport system Let all staff perform immediately After the execution, the entire maintenance record and execution feedback will be written back into the form Finally, the system will improve its model based on the new data obtained from this incident Let it be more accurate next time when it encounters a similar situation In this way, the PLTL system forms a complete decision-making environment. From data acquisition to information understanding, decision-making, execution, and final continuous learning. The complete operation process is built on the method of the theory of the body in each section. And this process can be applied to different industries by placing it in the four seas. The final result is to make the enterprise discover problems faster, make decisions smarter, and execute decisions more efficiently. Well, we've learned the full skill of PLTR. Now we can answer the question from the beginning of the video. If data analysis has already verified the AI application scenario, why don't tech companies with the same data analysis capabilities as Google and Microsoft compete with PLTR? Can PLTR's technical barriers always be so unshakable? The previous technical sharing answered this question very well. Obviously, PLTR is not a standard software that can be used as soon as you buy it, but a complex customized system. When landing, PLTR is to send a engineer team directly to the scene and work with the customers. The engineer has to figure out the company's data, process and needs, and then customize it into a unique system. Because the needs of each client are different, it must be slow and complicated to do. Google and Microsoft usually use software that can be copied and pasted For example, Office, search engine, cloud platform These are standardized products Sold to tens of thousands of users No need to create for each client To be honest, standardized products are more popular than customized products Because standardization can promote faster The market is also relatively large and the profit may be higher And Piotr's mode of heavy service and customizing is troublesome and difficult to make money And it's easy to involve the issue of return to safety For big companies, this is not in line with their business logic They really don't look too good If the big company really goes to the iron, it will be a hit Can it impact Piotr? I think it's hard too First of all, PLTR's own theoretical system has been a result of 20 years of real-time grinding. This is not as simple as a picture. The performance of the Apollo system is not comparable to that of ordinary companies. You know, PLTR is trained in a strict military environment, and the general commercial environment does not have this stability and reliability. It's not something you can get by money. Finally, in the AI application, we see that AIP seems to be a smooth thing, but it's not necessarily possible to put it in a general company. The reason why AI works very well on PLTR is that other models of PLTR have already been through the data of various business segments. And these are private, professionalized data and data built by customers after decades of accumulation. And the processing and analysis of data are all the strengths of AI, which makes PLTR work particularly well on the AI application. These three points, any point that is on the market, is the existence of the phoenix's feet. The three points combined is indescribable. So the Poitiers' code of thumb is not only the technology itself. Of course, technology is the most important code of thumb. But if you think about it, the core of the code of thumb is actually the commercial model of understanding customers and deep customization of services, and control of private data. In addition to the technical background, the Poitiers' code of thumb was formed after a close collaboration for more than ten years. This advantage, even if Google is weak, I think it is impossible to see a breakthrough in a short time. In addition, the customized mode of PLT2's JR is not something that the tech community is willing to do. All these combined explain why PLT2 did not see a real competition. And I think it will be hard to see in the long future. Forget the competition, let's look at another problem mentioned earlier. If PLTR products are really that useful, why is it only 30% to 40% growth? And why are there not many customers? On the one hand, this must be related to the sales model of PLTR. After all, as a customized product, this naturally determines its expansion speed. On the other hand, it is also a point that many people do not know Is the client type that his technology is suitable for At least for now The customer scale he can serve has an obvious ceiling Many people may think that the POTL thing is to use AI to increase the efficiency of the enterprise It sounds like all companies in the world are using it But when you understand how POTL uses AI to increase efficiency You will find that not all companies are using POTL's AI technology Why do you say that? Let's divide all the companies in the world into these four categories. Large technology companies, small and medium-sized technology companies, large traditional companies and small and medium-sized traditional companies. Let's take a look at their compatibility with POTL. Let's look at large technology companies first. For example, Microsoft and Google. In theory, these big technologies are the most rich and most motivated to use AI to increase efficiency. But if you look at the PLTR client list, you will find that there is no large technology company Even if there is, it is just one or two departments in the company It can be said that large technology companies almost do not like PLTR Why? This is actually because large technology companies have a top-class data engineering team They have their own strong AI development ability Like Microsoft, Google, they even have cloud and modeling to assist And such a company has already built its own database, AI tools and business process, so it doesn't need to use PLTR to provide the whole set of services. At the same time, PLTR systems also need to be integrated into all core data in the enterprise to analyze and optimize their operating efficiency. For a company of the micro soft Google level, it is almost impossible for an external company to access all its data. So they'd rather do it themselves than go to PLTR. 再来看看那些中小型的科技公司这些公司常常也很懂技术理应也会愿意用AII来降本增效但他们的资源相对有限而且数据没有那么多业务也没那么复杂个PLTR动辄就要一个工程师团队进驻好几个月帮客户梳理数据建模型整合流程而且他们的费用还不便宜对于这些中小科技公司来说太重太贵也太复杂了 In addition, many small and medium-sized technology companies are very fast in their business. Maybe the direction of the company will change tomorrow, so you can't cooperate with P&L. This kind of model requires long-term deep cooperation. So in this way, for technology companies, whether it is a large company or a small company, it is difficult to become a typical client of P&L. If technology companies can't do it, what about the traditional industry? Let's look at those large traditional companies For these companies, they have enough budget to use PLTR And have enough demand for reduction and increase in efficiency But in fact, it's not easy for them to really use it First of all, it's because the silence cost is too high These big companies have invested a lot of money in the past decade In the original data system Want to exchange for very high cost Secondly, it is a problem of data migration and privacy. This is also a big company's problem. For example, airlines have very sensitive flight data. They must meet the requirements of the regulatory agency. Many times, companies can only give the data to POTL after the data is leaked. This further increases the difficulty and cost of POTL use. Finally, some large companies in the traditional industry, such as Costco and Walmart, have their own operating system and are very mature. Their supply chain and rear system are efficient, stable and cheap, so you don't need to buy a ticket at all. 不过好在这部分也并非毫无机会大公司虽然不愿把所有的业务都交给PLTR但也有一部分会将一两个部门作为试点先试试看一旦效果好这类用户往往也会逐步扩大合作2024年PLTR前20大客户的平均收入已经提升到了6460万美元同比增长了18%这说明客户不是一次性下单就结束而是越用越深入订单也会越贵越大 The last part is the traditional business of middle school students. In fact, these companies are the most important users of PLTR. They are the companies that are most willing to use PLTR technology. On the one hand, these companies often do not have a good data system, and the technology talent is also relatively scarce. They may not even have tried to use AI to improve operating efficiency. For such companies, since their foundation is relatively weak, and the space is large, as long as they are willing to try to use PLTR, it will be easy to have a shadow effect. On the other hand, many of these traditional companies are heavy-weight companies. For example, the gas station chain companies on the AIPcom, or the companies like the hospital, manufacturing and energy, once involved in heavy assets, it often means that the cost of operation is very high, especially the cost of human resources, and the space to improve the efficiency of operation will be very large through AI. Therefore, from the current AIPcom users, most of them are these small- to medium-sized traditional companies. But the problem is that this kind of enterprise doesn't have as many as you think. You have to have a lot of assets, and the business is complicated. And you have to have enough money to afford PLTR. After all, his system is going to be over a million. This also explains why the number of customers of PLTR has not yet reached the reason for the increase in the number of customers. Because the real match for him is such a batch of enterprises with very high thresholds. So what does all this mean for investors? On the one hand, it means that the company's growth is skyrocketing. It's not like many people think that all companies will become PLT-2 customers. On the other hand, it also means that PLT-2 wants to continue to grow, and must break through current customer restrictions. Once the ceiling is broken, the company will have a further chance of exploding. The key question is how can PLTR break the current client restrictions? In my opinion, there are two very key points. The first is to expand their technical capabilities, from the original script increase to the evolution of a new revenue engine for customers. This will attract those industries that have financial power, resources, but not so high demand for capital increase. For example, the financial industry is a typical area with high financial ability and dense data. Once successful, it can not only bring new revenue growth for the company, but also significantly improve the customer level of PRTL and its industrial influence. In addition, this change can also continue to expand cooperation between existing large customers. Second, through technological progress, we can further reduce the complexity of the application. For example, by launching lighter and more standardized products, while reducing the application, we can also provide some services that are relatively cheaper and affordable for small and medium-sized enterprises. If this can be done, it will definitely further speed up their user group and bring improvements to the stock market. Once we see the two points of the pattern, I think the next explosion point will be close. But how do we know that PLTR has this pattern? To be honest, it's actually difficult for the spreader. After all, we don't have the opportunity to use PLTR services. But I think there are still two ways we can refer to. First, look at the current client's contract growth. We can directly see this data from the financial report. If the same client continues to increase contract value, the probability of the company's services continuing to expand. The other way is to go to the AIP conference every half year. This is the best way I think. Here are the most obvious cases. We can observe from these cases whether there are some non-standard client types joining, such as those small and medium-sized technology companies or financial companies. Whether POTL services have been expanded from efficiency to drive growth. These are all very good first-hand information. Others may just watch the AIP Conference for fun, but when you understand today's analysis, you can clearly grasp the importance of the stock price in this conference. Let's take a step back and say that even if we do not consider the expansion of the new industry and new customers, we rely on the deep excavation of the existing customer value, PLTR will maintain a 30% increase in the next three or five years. I think the problem is not big. At this stage, the company is eating the dinner in front of its eyes According to its current consistent After all, the valuation reflects not only the growth curve of the next one or two years, but also the effect of the next ten years. The technical company's ceiling is often not the growth of the还有个三五年的增长可以吃但是甜花板明显增长迟早会出顶股价注定无法维持 But before the border verification, the valuation price will still maintain a good growth, and the high valuation value can also be maintained. In this case, PLTR cannot be regarded as a good long-term investment, but a stage play that needs to be done in time during the border verification. But if PLTR technology can continue to evolve, then this company is looking to break through its ceiling to become the next technology giant. Then its growth is sustainable Not only will it have enough potential to rise, it will also last longer in terms of time This can become a long-term investment that is well-known and honest I personally have high expectations for this How to achieve it and several key points This video has been thoroughly analyzed Now everyone knows the company's upper limit and lower limit And there are clear judgment standards I believe that we will all be more at ease with the investment of PLT Ok, that's all for today's video. If you like this video, please give me a thumbs up. If you want to know more about PLTR, please visit my MitoPro page. MitoPro is a professional platform for Chinese investors. I will not only do a comprehensive basic analysis of the stock like PLTR, but also continue to follow the basic changes in the stock, so that you can really make a safe investment. In addition, MitoPro will also regularly give you a macro market report, share stock opportunities, and daily news summary. For new investors, we also provide a whole set of systematic investment teaching. In addition to watching content, you can also communicate with thousands of members to share investment, share investment experience, and investment opportunities. Thanks for watching, welcome to subscribe to Meitou Pro, new users can use it for free the first seven days, come and experience it. If you like Meitou Jun's video, don't forget to like, follow and forward it. Thank you all.