My name is Mark Manson. I am the author of the 
subtle art of not giving a fuck, as well as  
some other works. I'm a YouTuber, podcaster, and 
my work focuses primarily on the importance of  
values. This is Big Think, and today I'm going to 
be talking about how to grow into an emotionally  
mature adult. How to develop a healthy sense of 
hope. How to improve your life by changing your  
values. And how to find success through failure. 
Chapter 1. Becoming an emotionally healthy adult.  
One of my spicier arguments is that I think 
happiness is greatly overrated in today's  
age. I think people focus on it way too much. 
I think they're focused on it backfires pretty  
consistently. But worst of all, I think people 
have started confusing comforts and highs for  
the same thing as happiness. It's interesting if 
you look at the ancient world, Aristotle actually  
argued that there are two versions of happiness. 
There's hedonia, which is kind of pleasure,  
comforts, short-term satisfactions, and then 
there's eudaimonia, which is kind of a deeper,  
purpose-driven. This is a meaningful way to 
live my life kind of feeling. And I think the  
modern age has been very optimized to promote as 
much hedonia as possible. Everything is designed  
to make us as comfortable as possible, to 
give us quick dopamine hits all the time,  
to make us feel good all the time, and to promise 
us really simple superficial happiness all the  
time. But the problem is that what actually drives 
life satisfaction is that sense of eudaimonia,  
that sense of my life was worth living. I 
have zero regrets. Everything I've suffered  
or struggled through was worth the trouble. One 
thing to keep in mind in all this is an idea that  
comes from Alan Watts that I call the backwards 
law. And basically the backwards law is that the  
more you chase a positive experience, that chasing 
in and of itself is a negative experience. And the  
more you accept a negative experience, the more 
that acceptance itself is a positive experience.  
So you see this show up in all sorts of different 
areas of life, different ways. The more you try to  
impress people, the less impressive you're always 
going to feel. The more beautiful that you want to  
be, the uglier you will constantly see yourself. 
The more money you want to make, the more you will  
feel too poor and inadequate, like you don't 
have enough stuff. The more love you feel like  
you need, the more lonely and isolated you will 
feel. The more spiritually enlightened you want  
to become, the more self-centered and narcissistic 
you'll likely end up being. The more you try to  
be happy all the time, the more easily you'll be 
upset. Whereas if you just accept that sometimes  
life is hard and shit goes wrong, the more happy 
and easy going you'll become. So the significance  
of the backwards law is important because so 
much of what we're exposed to on a day-to-day  
basis is kind of selling us these benefits 
of self-perception. Hey, look at this by this  
product. You'll become more beautiful. You'll 
become happier. This will solve your confidence  
issues. Hey, we can fix your health in 30 days or 
your money back. All of these things, they sound  
very enticing, but what you discover as you start 
to go down that road is that you actually increase  
the likelihood of your negative experiences 
because you are constantly chasing that  
positive. So what I tell people is I say, instead 
of asking yourself what's going to make me happy,  
ask yourself, what am I willing to struggle 
for? What are the problems I actually kind  
of like having in my life? Sometimes when I give 
talks, I ask the audience, what kind of masochist  
are you? What's like the pain that you secretly 
enjoy that most other people don't? Because it's  
in that pain, that special relationship that 
you have with that struggle, that's actually  
probably where most of the meaning and purpose in 
your life is going to be found. It's going to be  
found in the struggles that you kind of relish 
having and in the challenges that you are most  
proud of overcoming. And this comes back to that 
backwards law and that when you're constantly  
chasing the positive experiences, you end up 
on this experience of like a treadmill and that  
every day and every moment you're looking for the 
next hit, the next high to keep you going. Whereas  
when you find the negative experiences that you're 
happy to accept, that you're willing to embrace,  
that embracing of that negative experience is 
actually what's going to generate a much longer  
and sustained positive experience. Because this is 
the sneaky truth that most people don't understand  
is that happiness is not something that you pursue 
and achieve in and of itself. It's the natural  
side effect of finding something more meaningful 
and purposeful in your life. If you find something  
that feels important, that's worth giving a 
fuck about, the happiness will happen on its own  
anyway. I think another common affliction today is 
this idea that we are each special and unique. And  
because we're so special and unique, we deserve 
special treatment, special results, a special  
place in the world. Ultimately, what this breeds 
is a sense of entitlement. It's a sense that we  
deserve certain outcomes without having to put 
in the effort or the work. And I think this comes  
from two different places. I think one was very 
well-intentioned, which was our parents raised us,  
telling us that we were special and amazing and 
unique, and that we had unique gifts to share  
with the world. And they simply did this because 
the self-esteem research at the time said this is  
what you're supposed to tell your kids. Of course, 
nowadays, we realize that that's not the case.  
When you raise children telling them that they're 
special and they deserve to have everything,  
you're not raising a human with high self-esteem, 
you're raising a little narcissist who thinks that  
they deserve all the benefits without any of the 
costs. Now, what most people don't realize is that  
there's two flavors of narcissism. Now, when 
most people think of an entitled narcissist,  
they think of what's known as a grandiose 
narcissist, which is the person who believes that  
they are bigger and better than everyone else, 
that they are amazing and unique. They're amazing  
and perfect and the best and they deserve special 
treatment because they're so superior. But there's  
a flavor of narcissism that most people haven't 
heard of, and that's the vulnerable narcissist.  
The vulnerable narcissist defines themselves as 
a special, unique victim. Everything has gone  
wrong. Everything is unfair. They've been treated 
uniquely poorly. And because of all those things,  
they deserve special treatment. And what's 
interesting is that grandiose narcissists and  
vulnerable narcissists, while having completely 
opposite attitudes and justifications for their  
selfish behavior, the result is exactly the 
same. Everyone should pay attention to me.  
Everybody should stop everything they're doing 
for me. Everybody should give everything I want  
to me. I think the second cause is just the 
nature of how the internet has evolved itself,  
is that everything is personalized. It's catered 
exactly for you. You get online and everything  
in your news feed is perfectly curated for your 
interests and the things that you care about and  
the things that you want to know about. All of 
the ads are directed at how special you are and  
how much you deserve this outcome and how if 
you just buy this product, then you are going  
to live up to it. And we're going to live up to 
all the potential that you always knew that you  
had. I think this messaging has become the water 
that we all swim in and it's terrible for our  
mental and emotional health. Most conventional 
self-help techniques are really just focused on  
these sugar highs of making you feel a little bit 
happier for a moment or making you feel special  
for a moment. The idea that you should stand and 
look in the mirror and tell yourself that you're  
beautiful or you're smart or that people are 
going to like you. Ultimately, the research shows  
that that's not that effective. In fact, what the 
research finds is that a lot of these techniques,  
like visualizations and affirmations and gratitude 
practices, they work better for the people who  
don't need them. So if you already feel good about 
yourself, then yeah, standing in the mirror is  
going to make you feel a little bit better. But 
if you feel like crap about yourself, the only  
thing that standing in the mirror reciting lines 
to yourself reminds you of is that you feel crap  
about yourself, that you are the type of person 
who needs to stand in front of a mirror and say  
affirmations to yourself. It just makes you feel 
more pathetic. So a lot of these techniques,  
they are sold and marketed as solutions to feeling 
happy and fulfilled and satisfied every day of  
your life. But really, they're just amplifying 
what's already there. So when I was in my 20s,  
I developed a really intense fascination with 
developmental psychology, like most 20 year olds.  
And I started reading a lot of really brilliant 
and famous researchers from Jean Piaget to  
Lawrence Kohlberg to Robert Keegan, Erik Erikson. 
And they all have these amazing frameworks of just  
how people develop throughout their lives. And 
the early developmental psychologists like Piaget,  
they began an early childhood and they kind of 
looked at how an infant develops basic logical  
reasoning and rational skills and can identify 
the difference between self and other. And then  
other psychologists came along later and they 
continued by looking at how adults develop and how  
different moral frameworks arise at different 
parts of our lives and how there are different  
tensions at different ages that really define 
how we see the world. So I just kind of became  
obsessed with this with a bunch of these theories 
and frameworks and I eventually kind of simplified  
everything into a framework that I think really 
ties together a lot of what we're trying to  
achieve in our lives. So I broke it down into 
three really simple categories. There's childhood,  
there's adolescence, and there's adulthood. 
Each is defined by something very simple,  
but the progress from one stage to the next is 
not necessarily guaranteed. So the child sees the  
world in the simplest of ways, which is, I want 
a thing, do I get the thing or not? You know,  
the child wants ice cream, it reaches for the 
ice cream. The child wants a cookie, it reaches  
for the cookie. All it understands is, I want 
this thing and I either get it or I don't get  
it. If I get it, I'm happy, if I don't get it, I'm 
unhappy. After being upset enough times, I start  
developing a theory of the world that explains why 
I don't always get a cookie when I want it. Well,  
it turns out mom gets to decide whether I get 
a cookie or not. And it also turns out that mom  
has a different experience and perspective than I 
do. Oh, that's actually really interesting. There  
are other people who have their own perspectives 
of how the world works and they have their own  
desires. They want their own cookies or they 
don't want their own cookies. And sure enough,  
when you look at a lot of studies, young children, 
they don't have a concept of self yet. They don't  
understand that other people have different 
perspectives than themselves. They're not  
able to empathize like older humans are able 
to empathize. They're not able to understand  
social status or social signaling or cultural 
standards or anything like that. And so once  
the child develops these theories of mind, they 
enter the adolescent stage, which I kind of think  
of as like the transactional stage of life. If you 
think back to high school, essentially what high  
school is is everybody's trying to barter with 
each other for social status, right? It's like,  
oh, if I wear this jacket, maybe they'll 
think I'm cool. If I wear the right shoes,  
then maybe I'll fit in and they'll be friends 
with me. If I say the funny thing in class,  
then maybe the cute girl will pay attention to me. 
Everything is conditional. It's tit for tat. If  
I do this, it will get that reaction out of that 
person. And this is very logical, right? Because  
once you understand it, like, okay, every other 
person has their own perspective, then what is  
the behavior that I need to do that is most likely 
going to make them allow me have my cookie? Now,  
this carries over into the real world. In fact, 
there's a lot of relationships in the real world  
that function this way that are very conditional. 
Like, you know, the coffee shop I went to this  
morning, I have a conditional relationship with 
the barista. I don't really care who they are or  
where they went to school or where they grew up. 
I just want them to give me my coffee and give  
it to me quick, right? And that's fine. That's 
fine in very small, marginal situations. So what  
you start noticing as you go through life is that 
this constant conditional interaction with people,  
it's exhausting. It feels inauthentic. It feels 
like you're performing all the time. And even when  
you get people to like you, it's very unsatisfied. 
And so what you eventually start to realize is  
that the only way to truly be happy with other 
people and be happy in the world is to behave  
unconditionally, is to find something in your life 
that matters so much to you. That you're willing  
to be disliked for it. That you're willing to 
suffer disapproval. You're willing to not get the  
cookie because you found something more important 
than the cookie. And this is what adulthood is.  
It's finding the things that really you're willing 
to plant your flag in and say, "This is who I am,  
take it or leave it. And if I'm not for you, 
that's totally fine. I get it. Live and let live."  
But I'm going to go look for the people that are 
right for me and that share in these values. Now  
the tricky thing is that I think a very large 
percentage of people get stuck in that adolescent  
mindset, that they're stuck bartering with the 
world performing for approval all the time. And  
I think a big reason for that is that the modern 
world is more transactional. It is more you're  
exposed to so many different people in so many 
different ways and there's so many different  
opportunities that you feel like you should be 
performing all the time to get what you want.  
And so if you never watch that performance fail 
enough times to start living virtuously, then  
you'll never cross over into that adult framework 
of living. And if you don't cross over into that,  
if you don't find the thing that you're willing 
to be disliked for, then you're never going to  
have a stable, happy relationship in the world. 
If we zoom out, like philosophically speaking,  
the reason we want to get to adulthood is because 
living that way makes us anti-fragile. Like the  
adolescent mindset, the childlike mindset, they're 
very fragile. They're easily disrupted. If things  
don't go your way, if you don't say the right 
thing, if you don't do the right thing at the  
right moment, everything falls apart. Whereas with 
the adult mindset, if you just have something that  
you stand for and you're willing to struggle 
for and you're willing to suffer through being  
disapproved for, any hardship or setback actually 
makes you stronger. It actually shows you,  
it helps you adapt to new circumstances. It helps 
you find new ways and reasons to work towards the  
thing that you believe in or stand for the thing 
that you care about. And the funniest thing about  
all this too is, you know, I went down this 
like deep modern psychological rabbit hole.  
And when I got to the bottom of it, I just 
found Aristotle. This is basic ancient Greek,  
Aristotelian philosophy 101. His whole argument 
was, third basic virtues. These are things that  
you can practice in each and every single moment 
that you can practice when people love you and  
when they hate you, that you can practice 
when you're broke and when you're rich,  
that you can practice when things are going well 
and when things are a total fucking dumpster fire.  
They're in your control at any given time. 
And they are always socially constructive,  
regardless of where the political fault lines are 
that week or that month. And if you prioritize  
them, if you make them your highest values, you 
can pursue them in every moment. You can live  
unconditionally. You can be anti-fragile. You 
can gain from failure and rejection. You don't  
have to perform for others. You don't have to 
chase status or accolades. You don't have to  
prove anything to anybody. It's this basic virtue 
ethic that has been sitting in front of us for the  
entirety of Western history. And I found myself 
staring at it in the face in between scrolling on  
TikTok and Instagram being like, "Oh, this 
was the answer all along." And so I think  
ultimately it's we are all developing towards an 
adulthood that is just reflective of what some of  
the wisest minds in history called out all along. 
That just pursue virtue, just value the timeless  
things that are good for everybody. And don't 
get lost in the hedonic treadmill of chasing more  
likes or chasing a couple more bucks or getting 
the next car or getting the next date. Because  
that's temporary. It's just a high and it's just 
going to create more suffering than it alleviates.  
So I guess we're back at the start. Chapter two, 
developing a healthy sense of hope. So there's  
something I call the uncomfortable truth of life 
and it's not fun to hear or think about. And that  
is basically that you and everyone you know are 
going to die and that basically nothing we do is  
going to matter in the grand scheme of things. 
That in the infinite expanse of the universe,  
we're just insignificant microscopic dust milling 
about. And none of this matters. And while that  
sounds very dark and fatalistic, I do think there 
is an optimistic view of that and that we get to  
create and construct meaning for ourselves. We 
get to decide what matters in our lives and they  
sustain us through hardship and challenges 
and when things go wrong. Our hope keeps us  
getting up in the morning and moving forward. 
But there's a dangerous side of hope as well,  
which most people don't think about. And that 
is that we defend our hopes often violently  
that we cling to our hope because it sustains 
us so much emotionally. And so if we hope for  
the wrong things or if we hope for things that are 
unrealistic, we can end up painting ourselves into  
a corner where living a fulfilling life is simply 
impossible. So I break our hopes down into three  
component parts and these component parts are 
largely based on self-determination theory, which  
is the predominant framework for understanding 
motivation and psychology. So the first one is,  
do you have a sense of autonomy? Do you feel like 
you control your future? Do you feel like you're  
able to make decisions for yourself? The second 
component is, do you have something that you feel  
like is more important than yourself? Is there 
something in your life that you're willing to  
struggle for or sacrifice for? And then the third 
is, do you feel like you belong to something? Do  
you feel like you have a tribe of people around 
you who share your values or support your values  
as you pursue them? And if you have all three 
of those things, then you can develop a healthy  
sense of hope. But as we'll see, each one of 
those three things gets very complicated. So  
the first complication comes around autonomy 
and self-control. And that is essentially that  
self-control is an illusion. What psychology shows 
us is that we are fundamentally irrational actors.  
We are very emotionally driven and then we 
rationalize our emotional decisions after  
the fact. And so a lot of what we think about in 
terms of self-discipline, habits, goal-setting,  
self-control, these are largely dictated by 
our emotional impulses. And so paradoxically,  
the way to develop more control and discipline 
in your life is not to implement rigid structures  
and just brute force everything with willpower. 
It's actually to develop a better relationship  
with your own emotions. Because once you get in 
touch with your emotional impulses, you can start  
directing them in more productive directions. 
Plato characterized it as a chariot and a horse.  
And the rational thinking part of ourselves is 
the chariot with the whip and the reins trying to  
control the horses of our instincts and making 
sure that we go where we actually want to go.  
So imagine that we have two brains. We have the 
thinking brain and the feeling brain. And imagine  
that our consciousness is a car. Most of us assume 
that the thinking brain is driving the car. And  
the feeling brain is in the passenger seat being 
this noisy child screaming, looking at stuff out  
the window, getting excited or upset about various 
things. But the truth is that it's actually the  
opposite. The feeling brain is driving the 
car and the thinking brain is sitting in the  
passenger seat and trying to act as the navigator. 
So the job of the thinking brain is to effectively  
communicate to the feeling brain to kind of almost 
like a dog tame the feeling brain into going where  
it should go. Because if you don't, then the 
feeling brain is just going to drive over the  
median and the oncoming traffic, follow whatever 
shiny object that it wants to chase after. So  
the struggle and tension between our thoughts and 
emotions is ever-present. And really what it boils  
down to is developing a healthier relationship 
with ourselves, an understanding of our emotions  
without suppressing them, a comfort experiencing 
various emotions without overindulging them,  
and learning how to direct some of our 
impulses and cravings without overdoing them.  
In my book, Everything is Fock the Book about 
Hope, I write a full chapter about Isaac Newton  
as kind of an allegory of understanding how 
our emotions and our identity interact with  
each other. In that story, I create Newton's 
three laws of emotion. The first one is that  
for every action, there will be an equal and 
opposite emotional reaction. So every action  
that we take in our life or every experience that 
we have in our life, whatever its impact on our  
identity, how we identify ourselves, there will 
be an emotional reaction that is proportional  
to how we perceive that experience to interact 
with our identity. So let's say I have a large  
identity as an author and I run into somebody on 
the street who says like, "Wow, you're a terrible  
hand model." Well, I don't identify as a hand 
model. It's not a core part of how I see myself.  
So I'll probably just kind of laugh and be like, 
"Wow, that's really weird." But if I run into  
somebody on the street who stops me and says, "Oh, 
wow, I read your books. You're a terrible author."  
Since that's such a core part of my identity, 
I will probably have a proportional emotional  
response to that experience. And I'll probably 
get very upset, embarrassed, confused, angry,  
whatever it is. But the emotional response will 
be directly proportional to how much the action  
is taking effect on my identity. Newton's second 
law of emotion is that your identity is the sum of  
all of your emotional experiences throughout your 
life. So if you have consistently felt bad around  
yourself, you will start to develop an identity 
of somebody who is bad. Somebody who just fails  
at things is incapable of doing things nobody's 
ever going to like you and so on. Whereas if you  
experience a large sum of positive experiences 
throughout your life, you'll develop an identity  
around those positive experiences. And ultimately, 
this is why we adopt certain identities. I adopt  
an identity as an author because I have intense 
positive experiences trying to be an author. I  
adopted an identity as bad at cooking because I 
have pretty much nothing but negative experiences  
every time I try to cook. And a Newton's third law 
is that there's an inertia to your identity, that  
your identity will continue to be your identity 
until some force acts against it and redirects it.  
And so when you're trying to change who you are 
or try to change your understanding of yourself,  
the only way you can actually do that is to go 
have contrary experiences, go out into the world  
and do things that act against the identity 
that prove your self-definition wrong in some  
way. Now the lesson to take on all of this is that 
ultimately you want to identify with things that  
are beyond yourself. As long as your emotional 
stability is based on how you perceive yourself  
and others perceive you, it's going to fluctuate 
wildly and you're going to lose control of your  
own actions. But if you have something outside of 
yourself that you identify with, that you really  
give yourself to, then that grants you a certain 
amount of stability in your life because it's no  
longer about you. It's like if you give your life 
to raising a family, then it's you no longer care  
if people criticize you for being a bad author 
or a bad cook. It doesn't matter to you. It's  
this more important thing outside of yourself 
that you can tether your hopes to that provides  
more emotional stability and a greater amount of 
self-control. And finally, the third complication  
comes around community. So when we find something 
outside of ourselves, we develop like an emotional  
gravity and that we attract people with similar 
values as our own. And we repel people with  
opposite values of our own. So when you start 
to value something outside of yourself, you  
will naturally start to coalesce with other people 
around similar shared values. And eventually you  
develop a community. Now communities are amazing. 
They're great. They're absolutely fundamental  
to our mental health. We're very much wired as 
social creatures. Our relationships are probably  
the highest correlated thing to our happiness 
and well-being out of everything that we've ever  
measured in psychology. So developing a community 
around shared values is amazing. It's incredible.  
The problem is that humans have a tendency to 
not just create a benign community and celebrate  
something. Once they've got the community, 
they like to play politics. They like to start  
thinking, "You know what? Our little community is 
better than that community." I think our community  
should have more access than that community. I 
think our community should maybe be in charge of  
that community over there. And this is where hope 
can turn dangerous because if your hopes hinge  
completely on your community having more access 
or power or resources over that community, then  
your hope essentially hinges on gaining power and 
gaining control over others. It starts to hinge on  
something that is by definition exclusionary and 
antagonistic to the rest of the world around it.  
And I think an unintended side effect of the 
modern world by making it so accessible and  
possible for people to form communities around 
shared values, we've unintentionally amplified the  
ability to create strife and conflict around each 
other's hopes. All of these perspectives and ideas  
that I've been talking about, they're not fun. 
They're not exciting, but they're good for you,  
and they make you a better functioning human 
being. So in this sense, I think of them like  
psychological vegetables. Nobody likes eating 
vegetables, but we all know we need to eat our  
vegetables. And vegetables are boring. They're 
everywhere. They're ever present. They're in  
every meal, but they're always the least exciting 
part of the meal. But the thing is, is that when  
we have a diet that's predominantly vegetables, we 
end up becoming healthier, we're more energized,  
we have more ability to focus, we have more 
ability to act in the world. It's ultimately  
what's good for us. Whereas chasing the highs of 
happiness, believing that everybody should like  
you all the time, believing that you're special 
and you deserve special treatment, these are like  
the sugar and desserts of our psychological 
diet. They feel good for a brief moment,  
but they always come with a hangover, and they 
always make us deeply unhealthy in the long run.  
Chapter three, how to fix your life by changing 
your values. I think a lot of people discount my  
work simply because of the profanity. They think 
that it's juvenile, that I'm kind of pandering to  
my audience by making them giggle. And I think 
what a lot of people miss about my work is that  
the whole not giving a fuck thing, it's really 
just a bit of a Trojan horse for discussion of  
values. Because if you think about it, we all have 
to care about something, we all have to give a  
fuck about something. The question is, what are we 
choosing to give a fuck about? And what we choose  
to give a fuck about, what we give our attention 
to or what we choose to focus on. Ultimately,  
that is a reflection of our values, of what we 
are prioritizing in our lives, what we find most  
important to ourselves, and that prioritization 
that we do internally and probably unconsciously  
ultimately has an effect on everything that we do. 
It becomes kind of the filter or the lens in which  
we see everything. And so I think the big blind 
spot in the self-help industry, it's not how do I  
become happier, or how do I become richer, or how 
do I become more successful. It's why do you want  
to be happier, why do you want to be richer, 
why do you want to be more successful? Like,  
what is success, how are you measuring that? How 
are you defining that? Because if you're defining  
it in a really terrible way, if the underlying 
value is just bad, then achieving that success is  
actually going to be a bad thing for you. You can 
waste years of your life chasing this thing that's  
ultimately not going to make anything better. 
So this raises the question, what should you  
give a fuck about? What is a good value? What's 
a good thing to focus on? Well, I think there's  
a few principles that can help us figure this 
out. So the first principle is, are you giving  
a fuck about something that is immediate and 
controllable? Is it something that you can control  
within your own environment? So for example, the 
reason people pleasing is a terrible value is not  
because it's bad to be liked. We all want to be 
liked. The problem is that you can't control what  
other people feel. And in fact, when you try to 
control what other people feel, that makes you an  
asshole. You're interfering with their agency. 
But when you focus on what you can control,  
your own behavior, your own honesty, your own 
vulnerability, that will make your relationship  
stronger. But it won't necessarily make you liked 
by everyone. The second principle of having good  
values is valuing something that is reality-based. 
Something that you can verify and know to a  
certain degree is true. We tend to get very caught 
up in fantasies and invent a lot of ideas in our  
head about what's true about the world, the way 
other people should be, different beliefs about  
how society should work. And it's unavoidable 
that we're going to be wrong about something some  
of the time, but we should always be working 
towards some reality-based version of truth.  
Simply because believing in illusions ultimately 
is going to make us suffer. Being attached to the  
illusion that everybody should say hi to me 
on Saturday morning is just going to piss me  
off every Saturday, because it's unrealistic and 
it's based in this fantasy version of the world.  
This principle is particularly tricky because 
it requires us to constantly evaluate the ways  
that we might be wrong. The ways that we might 
be believing in a fantasy or have some false  
assumption about ourselves or other people or the 
way that the world should work. And then the third  
principle for having good values is that it should 
be socially constructive. Now this sounds very  
obvious and simple, but it gets very complicated 
because yes, you should be nice to people. You  
should be helpful. You should believe in things 
and care about things that are good for society.  
I think we all, the vast majority of us, believe 
in something like that. The problem is that we all  
have a tendency to delude ourselves into thinking 
that what's good for us is actually good for  
society. And so most of the harms that we cause on 
the world are well-intentioned and also ignorant.  
So if we're trying to live a life where we don't 
give a fuck, and by that I mean we're trying to  
live a life where we're giving our attention or 
our focus in the right places, there are three  
subtleties that come along with that. So the first 
one is that not giving a fuck is actually about  
being comfortable, being different. It's being 
comfortable with the fallout or repercussions of  
having a different opinion or having a different 
point of view or caring about something that other  
people don't care about. The irony is that the 
people who want to stop giving a fuck the most,  
they are the people who are trying not to be 
different in any way, shape, or form. They're  
the ones who are trying to make everybody happy 
all the time. They're the ones who are trying to  
just blend in with the crowd. And ultimately that 
becomes very stressful because they don't stand  
for anything. They don't have anything that they 
get to own and call their own. Which brings us to  
the second subtlety, which is that the way to stop 
giving a fuck about adversity is to give a fuck  
about something more important than adversity. 
And basically the way to stop giving so many  
fuck what everybody thinks all the time is to find 
something more important than what everybody else  
thinks all the time. It's this idea that you have 
to find something in your life that you're willing  
to struggle for, that you're willing to stick 
your neck out for, that you're willing to plan  
a flag end and say, "This is mine. This is what I 
care about. This is what I stand for. And if you  
don't like it, fuck it. Deal with it." Like not 
giving a fuck, it doesn't get rid of adversity,  
it just makes the adversity okay. And then finally 
the third subtlety is the realization that you  
are always giving a fuck in every moment. You're 
always choosing something to give a fuck about,  
right? Like if you're choosing to try to not 
give a fuck about what anybody else thinks,  
that is giving a fuck about what everybody else 
thinks because you're trying to not give a fuck  
about it. So it's giving a fuck is not optional. 
It is something that is very much hardwired into  
our psychology. It is something that is always 
operating and dictating what we focus on and what  
we don't focus on. And so the question is, what 
are you choosing to focus on and what are you  
choosing to not focus on? What are you choosing to 
suffer for and what are you choosing to not suffer  
for? Where are the yeses in your life and where 
are the noes in your life? That ultimately is  
the important question. So the tricky thing about 
our values is that we often lie to ourselves about  
what we actually value. We say to ourselves and 
others, "Oh, I really care about honesty and then  
we turn around and lie to somebody." Or we say 
that we really care about our health but we are  
binging cheesecake on a random Thursday afternoon. 
So even getting an accurate sense of what we are  
prioritizing, what we are giving a fuck about 
is often a difficult process. But there are two  
techniques that I am going to share with you that 
can help you figure out your values in the next  
20-30 minutes. So the first one is what I call a 
time audit and it is pretty simple. You take out  
a sheet of paper, you write down what you spend 
your time on throughout the week and try to be as  
honest as possible. And if you want to get really 
hardcore about it, you can actually track for five  
days how much time did you spend on the computer? 
How much time did you spend watching Netflix? How  
much time did you spend talking to friends? Just 
doing that time audit often surprises people. They  
think in their head, they are like, "Oh, I am 
spending a lot of time at work." But then they  
realize they are not doing a whole lot of work. 
Or they think that they are spending a lot of  
time keeping in touch and connecting with family. 
But they are actually not talking to their family  
nearly as much as they thought they were. So 
when you do the time audit, you get a clear  
picture of how many hours are going into each 
activity in your life. And then you can also  
gauge those in terms of how much you actually 
value them. And you start to realize, "Oh, this  
thing that I barely value at all, I am spending 
15, 20 hours a week doing it." Whereas the thing  
that I really value and I feel like I lack in my 
life, I am only investing two hours a week into  
it. The second technique you can do is a classic 
stoic practice known as Memento Mori, which is  
you imagine your own death. You imagine that you 
are on your deathbed and you are looking back at  
your life and you ask yourself, "What was worth 
doing and what was a complete waste of time?"  
And this practice is incredibly powerful because 
I think nothing gives us real clarity on the value  
of the things in our life. The way imagining our 
own death does. Because most of the things that we  
care about on a day to day basis are not going 
to matter anymore once we are dead. And only a  
few things are. And what you realize when you 
do this exercise is that those few things that  
are potentially going to matter long after you are 
dead, those are actually the things that you wish  
you were spending more of your time on. And as 
humans, we instinctually avoid thinking about our  
own death. It's not fun. It's very uncomfortable. 
But I think it's so useful for this reason. And  
there's a lot of different ways you can do it. 
You can project into the future. Imagine when you  
are 80 and you are on your deathbed and you are 
looking back at your life. You can do it that way.  
Another way to do it is imagine if you have one 
year left to live, what would you spend the next  
year doing? Another way to do it is what Steve 
Jobs did when he was alive, which is every morning  
he would look in the mirror and he'd say, "If this 
was the last day I was going to be alive, would  
I be happy with what I'm doing today?" And if he 
said no too many days in a row, then he would make  
a major change in his life. So there are a lot of 
different ways to attack it, to approach it. But  
what's important is that you develop some sort 
of regular habit of at least thinking about it.  
I think we resist not giving a fuck about things 
because we feel like if we let go of something,  
it's going to go wrong. It's going to fall 
apart. It's going to fail. But the problem is  
that any sort of growth or development comes from 
a feeling of uncertainty, comes from not knowing  
what you're doing, comes from the willingness to 
be unsure about what's right and what's wrong.  
One of the fundamental Buddhist principles is 
this idea of attachment, that all suffering is  
ultimately rooted in being attached to whether 
it's an idea, a feeling, a view of the world.  
And I really see that as kind of an indictment on 
certainty and not doubting yourself. And actually  
the experience of not giving a fuck about 
something is it's actually quite liberating.  
Like narrowing your focus to just a handful 
of things that really matter in your life,  
it's you're not actually limiting yourself, you're 
freeing yourself from having to dedicate mental  
bandwidth to dozens and dozens of things that 
ultimately don't matter. You know, it's funny,  
when I was dating my wife, like a lot of men I 
agonized over whether I should propose to her or  
not. I spent months and months and months thinking 
about it and talking to friends and family and  
just like weighing all the pros and cons. And 
I'm trying to like project into the future,  
like understand like a clairvoyant, like, "Is this 
the woman for the rest of my life? Am I making the  
biggest mistake ever?" And it was funny because 
the second that I proposed, all of the doubts  
and uncertainty, it just melted away because all 
that mattered was that commitment. It's like, "Do  
I know if she's the right person for me for the 
rest of my life?" No, I don't. But I do know that  
I have control over how much I commit to trying to 
make her the right person for the rest of my life.  
And because I narrowed my focus to the one thing 
I had control of, it allowed me to turn off,  
it was like turning off 100 television screens in 
my mind of like all these alternative realities,  
all these like ideas of like other people I could 
date and other lives I could live and like what  
would happen if this happened or that happened? 
It all just got shut off. And suddenly my mind  
went silent and there was just this resulting 
piece as a result. So it comes back to this  
original Buddhist idea that it's what we cling 
to that determines our suffering. We all have a  
natural instinct to crave certainty in our lives. 
And I think the more chaotic the world seems,  
the more confusion we have around what to do, the 
more we crave knowing something for sure. I think  
most of our suffering comes from our certainties 
about ourselves, about how the world should be,  
how people should treat us, about ideas other 
people should have. When we cling on to those  
things and refuse to let go, that's what causes 
all of detention and conflict, both within  
ourselves and with others. And so I actually think 
that we should embrace more uncertainty. I think  
we should know less. I think people should have 
fewer opinions and hold them more loosely. Because  
the way our identities work is that the more 
I believe myself to be something, the more I'm  
going to defend it with everything that I've got. 
In my book, I have this concept called Manson's  
Law of Avoidance, which states that the more 
something potentially threatens your identity,  
threatens your certainty of who you are, the 
more you will find ways to avoid it. And what's  
interesting about the law of avoidance is that 
it applies to both good things and bad things. I  
think everybody's had an experience of avoiding 
something that could be harmful or upsetting or  
uncomfortable for us. We find excuses to not go to 
the gym, we find reasons to not have a difficult  
conversation with a colleague. But a lot of us 
have also had experiences where we avoid things  
that are good for us, that we sabotage our own 
opportunities, that we mess up good relationships.  
And I think at our core, that happens for the 
exact same reason, that the good thing in our  
lives also challenges our notion of who we are. It 
also potentially threatens our certainty of how we  
see the world. And so our instinct is to resist it 
and to act against it. And so I think the looser  
you can hold your identity, the less sure you can 
be about yourself or who you are, the less you can  
find yourself. The more open you are to all of the 
experiences that are going on around you, and the  
more objective you can be as you choose to move 
through the world. So one way to actually look  
at this in yourself is to do a little journaling 
exercise. So if you take something in your life  
that you're struggling with and take kind of the 
core belief behind that conflict or that struggle,  
and just sit down and ask yourself three 
questions. The first one is, what if I'm wrong?  
And take a minute and write out all of the ways 
that you could potentially be wrong. You're not  
necessarily saying you are wrong, but we just want 
to think through all the possibilities of maybe  
you're mistaken somewhere, maybe you're missing 
something, maybe there's a perspective you haven't  
considered yet. Then the second question is, what 
would it mean if I'm wrong? What would that say  
about me? What would that say about my life? What 
would that say about the world? And this is where  
you actually start to uncover a lot of the deep 
core sensitivities that you're probably avoiding  
dealing with, right? It's like, well, if I'm wrong 
about this, then that probably means that I don't  
know what I'm talking about. Or if I'm wrong about 
that, then that means I'm actually the problem in  
my relationship. What you start to uncover 
are a lot of implications that you probably  
instinctively avoid. And finally, ask yourself the 
third question, which is, would being wrong give  
me a better or worse problem than being right? 
I think a lot of people would be surprised that  
being wrong, although very painful in the short 
term to accept, gives them a much better problem  
in their life than holding on to being right. But 
as soon as we let it go, the experience that we  
have is a liberation, a liberation from all of 
the things that we don't have to care about.  
It's funny because a lot of people, they hear this 
and they say, "Well, that's easy for you to say,  
Mr. Big, successful author. You didn't grow up 
like I did or you haven't been through what I've  
been through." And what's funny about this is that 
I think the more hardship you've gone through in  
your life, the more important this is, right? 
If you think about somebody who's very wealthy,  
like a trust fund kid or something, they can 
afford to not figure out their values. They can  
afford to kind of drift through life aimlessly 
and not worry about anything. Whereas like,  
if you've grown up in poverty, if you had a lot of 
tough shit handed to you throughout your life, you  
don't have that luxury. You have to get focused. 
It is 100 times more important that you know what  
you're spending your time and attention on because 
you don't have the luxury of being able to waste  
your attention away on things that don't matter. 
And the other irony here is that I actually think  
it's easier the harder your life circumstances 
are. If you think about like a subsistence farmer  
in India, they don't have many options. They 
wake up. There's one thing to do. You go out  
and farm. There's no question. There's no like, 
"Oh, what am I doing with my life? Is this what  
I'm meant to be? Have I found my purpose?" No, 
they go out and farm because if they don't farm,  
they're not going to eat. It's that simple. 
So any question of purpose or what they're  
valuing or what they're prioritizing, it's already 
solved. They don't even have to think about it.  
Whereas if you're like a typical upper middle 
class young person in the United States or Europe,  
you have grown up with so many options, so many 
opportunities, so many different paths in life  
that you could potentially take, that it's 
petrifying to consider these things. That you  
probably feel completely adrift because you can 
envision 20 different versions of your own future.  
And because you can imagine 20 different versions 
of your own future, it is terrifying to pick one  
because that means you have to kill the other 19. 
I think this is why this message is resonating so  
much in this day and age, and particularly with 
these younger generations, because these are the  
first generations that are growing up with this 
much optionality, with this much exposure to  
all the different lives. All the different life 
paths that they could take. That's when you need  
values the most is when you could see all of these 
different options and opportunities, but you only  
have access to take one. Ultimately, in all of 
this, the important thing to remember is that the  
quality of your life is determined by the quality 
of your values. And the quality of your values  
is determined by the quality of the problems that 
come with those values, because no matter what you  
choose to care about, no matter what you give a 
fuck about, it's going to create problems in your  
life. There are going to be struggles associated 
with that thing that you care about. And so you  
want to care about the things that bring the 
right problems, that bring the problems into  
your life that you are happy to have, that feel 
worth having. Because that ultimately is what's  
going to create that long term sense of 
happiness, that eudaimonic happiness.  
Chapter four, achieving the right kind of 
success. Today, we live in a success obsessed  
culture. People feel like if they can just make 
enough money, if they can just have the right car  
or buy the right house, if they can find the 
right partner, then everything's going to be  
fixed and fine. And what's tricky is that I think 
we tend to be kind of bad at defining success for  
ourselves. We don't think very hard about how are 
we measuring success? What is the metric by which  
we determine if whether we're making progress or 
not? And a lot of this comes back to understanding  
our own motivations, right? Like a lot of people, 
maybe they want to have a really fancy car or  
really nice house or live in a certain part of 
town. And they think that's actually what they  
want, but really what they want is respect or 
approval or attention, not realizing that there  
are way easier ways to go about getting respect, 
approval and attention in your life than having  
to go spend a million dollars in a house on the 
other side of town. If we don't question how we're  
measuring success, then we're going to be unclear 
on what we're willing to give up to get there. And  
if we're not willing to give anything up to get 
there, then we're basically guaranteeing that  
we're never going to be successful in the first 
place. In these days, people are particularly  
obsessed with extraordinary success, like massive 
outlier success, multi-multi-billionaire type  
success. And people want to replicate that, but 
I don't think people are paying attention to the  
right thing. I don't think they realize what is 
actually involved. Because if you want to achieve  
massive extraordinary amounts of success, you have 
to do three things well. And people tend to ignore  
or overlook two of them. The first one is, is 
that you have to have a contrarian take. This  
is just basic logic. If you want to capitalize 
on an opportunity that is greater than 99.9% of  
other opportunities, then you have to be willing 
to look somewhere that 99.9% of other people are  
not willing to look. You have to find an idea 
that 99.9% of people think is a stupid idea.  
You have to be willing to consider it. And the 
irony is that this willingness to be contrarian,  
this willingness to look at ideas that 
other people think are ridiculous,  
usually goes completely against why people want to 
be extraordinarily successful. People imagine that  
if they're extraordinarily successful, they're 
going to be celebrated and everybody's going to  
love them. Everybody's going to want to hang out 
with them and be friends with them. And it's like,  
no, actually, the thing that's going to make you 
that successful is going to make you a pariah.  
It's going to make you look ridiculous. You're 
going to sound stupid. People are going to be  
like, that guy is crazy. What is he on about? 
Step number two is you have to be right about  
that contrarian idea. Most contrarian ideas are 
contrarian for a reason because they're horrible  
ideas. They're ridiculous. They're wrong. They're 
stupid. So you have to find that rare contrarian  
idea that everybody else is overlooked and 
everybody else is wrong about. And then step  
number three is you have to have enough conviction 
on that idea to execute on it massively. And this  
is where everybody gets tripped up because they 
look at somebody like Steve Jobs or Bill Gates or  
Warren Buffett, whoever, name your famous super 
successful person, and they look at like, okay,  
what was their morning routine? How many hours 
a day were they working? What did they do with  
their weekends? Completely missing the fact 
that this person took an idea that everybody  
else thought was ridiculous and then completely 
rearranged their life to optimize for that idea.  
The optimization itself is completely secondary. 
Whether you wake up at 4am or 6am or work 13 hours  
a day or 12 hours a day, it doesn't matter. It 
really doesn't matter. What matters is you found  
the right contrarian idea. You're correct about 
it where most other people are incorrect and then  
you invested massively into it. Like one of the 
things Warren Buffett said himself is that over  
the course of a career that has spanned nearly 
80 years, the vast majority of his success could  
be boiled down to roughly a dozen correct bets. 
And the truth is that almost nobody will do this  
because A) they're probably not going to have 
a contrarian idea to begin with because they're  
too dependent on the people around them to dictate 
what they think. B) even if they have a contrarian  
idea, they're probably not going to be right about 
it. And then C) even if they're right about it,  
they're probably going to be too scared to drop 
everything else they're doing and go all in on it.  
And even if you do get to the other side 
of it, even if you do get all the money  
and the accolades and the fame, now you're in 
a situation where everybody who comes to you,  
you don't know why they're there. Are they there 
to get something from you? Are they there because  
they want something from you? Are they trying 
to take advantage of you in some way? And you  
start asking yourself, where were these people 
before I was famous? What you realize is that  
that extraordinary success, it creates conditions 
for people to be attracted to you that undermines  
the benefits of having them in your life, 
that it complicates your relationships, it  
complicates your lifestyle. It makes you consider 
all sorts of repercussions and motivations that  
you never had to consider before. I see this 
misalignment all the time with people who come  
to me with questions. Obviously, I hear from a lot 
of aspiring writers and authors who come to me for  
advice. And it's funny because so many people come 
and they're like, "I want to be a writer, I want  
to do what you do. I've got all these great ideas. 
How do I get there?" And my answer to them is  
always, "Go publish 50 articles and then come back 
and ask me again." And I say this for two reasons.  
One is, it determines who's willing to actually do 
the work from the ones who just want to fantasize.  
But the other reason is that by actually writing 
50 pieces and publishing them and getting feedback  
on them, that in and of itself is probably going 
to solve 90% of the person's questions. They're  
going to learn everything that they would have 
asked me. They're going to find out anyway. And  
it's funny because I've been giving this answer to 
people for almost two decades. I've probably told  
multiple hundreds of people to do this at this 
point, and only two people ever did it. And what  
that tells me is that people want the result. They 
don't want the process. People want the benefits.  
They don't want the cost. And if you don't want 
the cost of something, then I would argue you  
don't actually want the thing. I went through this 
myself when I was younger. Before I was a writer,  
I attended music school, and I wanted to be a 
professional musician. And it's funny because when  
I was in high school, I was the music guy. I'd 
bring my guitar to parties and I'd sing and play  
songs. And it was kind of a social identity. And I 
loved it. It kind of defined my whole adolescence.  
But when I got to music school and I actually 
tried to be a professional musician, I realized  
something, which is that the experience of the 
music. The experience of playing music for people  
and hearing applause and being seen as this really 
talented guy on stage, that's like less than 1% of  
what the experience of being a musician is. 99% 
of the experience is practicing and rehearsing by  
yourself alone in a room, being celebrated by 
nobody. And I hated that experience. I didn't  
enjoy any aspect of it. And it took me about 2 
years in music school to finally accept to myself  
that I don't actually like being a musician. That 
because I'm not willing to sit in a room by myself  
for 5 hours a day, practicing songs, I'm also 
not willing to do what it takes to be the guy on  
stage. So I think people need to stop separating 
the process from the outcome. They need to realize  
that being a successful best selling author is 
posting hundreds and hundreds of articles online.  
It's having your writing ridiculed. It's having 
people trash you in the comments. It's having  
people misunderstand you constantly. That is what 
the process is. That is what the reality is. The  
benefits are just 1% of it. The other problem 
of focusing so much on the outcome instead of  
the process is that it can paralyze you. It seems 
too big. It seems impossible. Like this gigantic  
mountain that you have to climb and surmount. 
And so I think people just lose motivation and  
they become too afraid to start. One of the most 
important life lessons I ever learned was actually  
from my high school math teacher. His name was 
Mr. Packwood. I remember we were sitting in class.  
We were taking an exam. And I guess most of us 
were having trouble with it because we were just  
sitting there staring at the page, not writing 
anything. And I remember he stopped the class  
and he said, "Can I say something really quick?" 
He said, "Let me give you a piece of advice."  
He said, "If you're stuck on a problem, just 
rewrite the problem and try to find the first  
step." He said, "Don't worry about solving the 
entire problem. Just rewrite it and find step one  
because there's something magical in the process 
of just writing step one. That steps two, three,  
four, and five will start to reveal themselves." 
And sure enough, it was crazy. I remember sitting  
there writing out the problem, writing out like 
the most basic step, and then suddenly seeing the  
problem differently and realizing what steps two, 
three, and four were. And as I got to university  
and adulthood, I realized that this applied to so 
many things in life. Like if I had a term paper  
and I didn't know how to start it, I'd pull back 
and I'd say, "You know what? Let's just write two  
sentences. Let's just write one sentence." And 
sure enough, in the process of writing that one  
sentence, I could see the whole first paragraph. 
And then in the process of writing that paragraph,  
I would see the whole introduction. I saw this in 
my social life. I'd go to a party, I'd see a cute  
girl, I didn't know what to say to her. Just walk 
up and say, "Hi." And in the process of saying,  
"Hi," I'd find the next thing to say. And then 
in the process of saying that, I'd find the next  
thing to say. And next thing you know, you're 
in a 20-minute conversation. Eventually, when I  
started writing, I codified this and I called it 
the "do something principle," which is basically  
when you want something in your stuck, just do 
something. Find the minimum viable action. Find  
the action that feels doable in this moment. And 
just go do it. Because in the process of doing it,  
you will generate the motivation and inspiration 
to keep going. And I think this is actually one of  
the most profound realizations that I've had in my 
life, which is that inspiration is not the cause  
of action. It's the effect of action. The action 
comes first. And then once you've done the action,  
you get the inspiration to keep going. You don't 
magically feel motivated one day on the couch  
and then go get up and go to the gym. You get up 
and go to the gym and the fact that you're there  
motivates you to actually do something. And so 
when you're stuck in life, look for that minimum  
viable action. Look for the simplest thing you 
can do in this moment. Because just in the act of  
doing it, you will generate the motivation to keep 
going. The other reason people don't take action  
is a simple fear of failure and rejection. They 
don't want to embarrass themselves. They don't  
want to make a fool of themselves. And it's funny 
because if you zoom out and you think about this a  
little objectively, this is very irrational. 
Because what is rejection? Rejection is you  
signaling to the world. This is what I'm about. 
This is what I care about. And it is a certain  
percentage of the world looking at that and 
being like, "No, not for me." And that's great  
because now you don't have to deal with a bunch of 
people who weren't going to make you happy anyway.  
This is something that is very true, I think, in 
dating that applies to everything, which is that  
rejection is secretly a good thing because it is 
the sorting mechanism of the universe for removing  
all of the things that are not going to make 
you happy. The other way failure and rejection  
benefits you is that it's information. It shows 
you what you're good at, what you're not good at.  
It shows you how you can do things better. It's 
part of the learning process. It's those failures  
that generate the information and feedback that 
allow you to become great at it. Nobody became  
great the first time they did anything. So once 
you start seeing failure as part of the process,  
you see rejection as part of the natural 
filtration of your life. Not only do you stop  
being afraid of it, but you actually start leaning 
into it. So it's funny, in my own career, I quit  
my job in finance in 2009 to start blogging. And 
everybody around me thought I was insane. But I  
just had this conviction, "You know what? Content 
on the Internet. It's going to be a thing. This  
is really going to go somewhere. There's going to 
be opportunities." And so I was publishing every  
single day. I was writing articles all week, every 
week. I was working around the clock. And for a  
few years, I was struggling to get by. But what I 
didn't realize at that time is that I was market  
testing my ideas. I was finding different 
perspectives that worked with people, that  
connected with people. And I was getting reps that 
most other writers in the world weren't getting.  
Most other writers at that time, they would 
publish once a month or once a week or once every  
other year if they were writing a book. So they 
didn't get that market feedback from the reader.  
They didn't have that immediate relationship. 
And so because I got all those reps and because I  
wrote all of those bad articles and because I got 
to see what all my good ideas were and all my bad  
ideas were, when I did get my first book deal, I 
had a much clearer sense of what I wanted to say  
and what I thought was going to resonate and what 
people connected with when I talked about it. And  
all three of my books were massive. Smash hits. 
And it's funny because by that point, I had spent  
seven years being on this island, going home at 
Christmas, having everybody in my family look at  
me and be like, "What do you do for work again?" 
And me trying to explain to them what a blog was  
and why, no, thousands of people read this, I 
promise. They're just kind of shaking their head  
and being like, "Who? How do you make money?" And 
then suddenly being this huge number one New York  
Times bestseller, "My book is in every airport, 
it's in every bookstore, it's on TV, it's on the  
radio." And seeing the way people's disposition 
changed and seeing how suddenly different people  
started taking a different attitude towards me, 
different aspects of my life started changing. And  
don't get me wrong, success is great. Money's 
great. Like, I wouldn't take it back. But it  
does complicate things and it doesn't play out as 
cleanly or smoothly as it does in your fantasies.  
And what really surprised me is that after my 
books took off and I found myself with all of  
this publishing success, I went through a bit 
of a period of depression because I didn't know  
what the hope for anymore. I didn't have dreams 
anymore. Like basically everything I had dreamed  
of since I was 20 years old had come true. And 
while that was amazing, it was amazing for a few  
months, maybe a year. But then after that, I woke 
up, I was the same guy, had the same problems,  
dealt with the same bullshit, and I had nothing to 
look forward to. It was like, "Oh wow, everything,  
the best things I could have imagined for myself 
are in my past. So what do I have to look forward  
to? Why do anything?" And it was a surprisingly 
hard period to work through, especially because  
nobody wants to shed any tears for a depressed 
multimillionaire. Nobody sympathizes with the  
guy whose book is number one everywhere. It is 
like, "I'm sad. I don't know what to do with my  
life." And so you find yourself in this very odd, 
lonely position that really the only people that  
relate or understand are other people who have 
experienced sudden astronomical success. It taught  
me a lot about what is actually meaningful and 
important in our lives. And I'm extremely proud of  
the books and I'm extremely proud of the success. 
But it showed me the importance of having things  
to look forward to outside of my work, having 
dreams that exist outside of my own achievements.  
And be always maybe caring about something that 
can't be achieved, that isn't worldly or material.  
Want to support the channel? Join the Big Think  
Members community where you get 
access to videos early, ad-free.