I'm Bo Seo. I'm a two-time world debate champion, 
a former coach of the Australian National and  
Harvard debate teams, and the author of Good 
Arguments. Thank you for watching Big Think.  
If you'd like to support our work, we encourage 
you to join our members community. As a member,  
you'll receive our quarterly print magazine, a 
beautifully designed collection of the ideas and  
interviews that matter most. Big Think 
is for curious people who want to take  
deep dives into big ideas. To support 
the media you want to see in the world,  
go to bigthink.com/membership. 
And now back to the interview.
Chapter one, how good arguments work.
I felt the need to write good arguments because I 
think our public conversations are in a state of  
crisis and that is the more visible crisis that 
we see where every disagreement out in media or  
in the public square is a source of division and 
pain. But it's also the hidden crisis of all the  
people who are driven away from participating in 
those conversations at all because they fear that  
it's going to be pointless or it's going to be 
painful and it's not going to be worth their time.  
Good arguments is not only what democracies have 
to do. It's what they on their best days aspire  
to be, which is a conversation between people who 
disagree sometimes over irreconcilable things to  
find areas of agreement to spot points where they 
need to work across their differences to reach  
a better solution. One of the reasons why our 
arguments are so divisive and painful and present  
is that we've allowed the skills of disagreeing 
well to atrophy. We no longer view argument as a  
skill and as something to be worked at. Rather, 
we see it as something we jump into out of  
instinct or defensiveness. The bad arguments 
that result in turn decrease our confidence  
in what disagreements can do for us. And when 
we lack that faith in what arguments can do,  
we tend to approach them more defensively. We tend 
to go into it with a more defensive posture. And  
as a result, the lack of faith and lack of 
confidence tends to be self-reinforcing. And  
the resulting cascade means that the quality of 
the conversation further degrades. The tradition  
of good argument that I'm trying to advocate for 
is very much rooted in history. It goes back all  
the way to antiquity where in ancient Greece the 
ability to make your point persuasively to engage  
other citizens in discussion and debate was seen 
as a kind of a requirement of citizenship. that  
it's what it meant for us to govern ourselves. 
And that developed through tea houses and pubs  
and coffee houses in London where while 
the debates of Parliament were going on,  
citizens would gather and have the same debates 
between themselves and to kind of play out as  
though they were parliamentarians, as though they 
were governing themselves. And that tradition kind  
of carries forth in the United States with a 
lot of the founding fathers starting debate  
clubs and colleges viewing part of their role 
as leaders and as founders of a new country as  
instilling in the nation that spirit of debate. 
And though that tradition has become harder and  
harder to discern in our everyday lives, there 
have been periods in the history of the US and  
the history of democracies and the history of 
the world where those debates were a feature  
of people's day-to-day lives. So, one high-profile 
debate that comes to mind is the series of debates  
between the civil rights leader James Farmer and 
Malcolm X, who had a different view of what racial  
liberation looked like, what the appropriate 
response to racism was. And these were a series of  
disagreements between people who were ostensibly 
on the same side, whose objectives were in some  
sense allied, but they were not shy about voicing 
their disagreements in really candid, strong,  
forthroated ways in the view of the public. 
knowing that the other side would respond  
respectfully, that they would be candid about the 
disagreements, and through that conversation that  
they would be able to get somewhere they couldn't 
on their own. There are three lessons that I take  
away from the farmer Malcolm X debates. 
The first is the importance of training.  
farmer came up under one of the great debate 
coaches who ever lived, Melvin Tolson,  
who was memorialized actually by Denzel Washington 
in that movie, The Great Debaters. And Malcolm X  
too found his voice through a debate program in 
prison that allowed inmates to debate against  
local colleges and local schools and to find an 
outlet for the kind of thinking that they had done  
through engagement with texts and with each other. 
So the first is in order for us to be able to host  
the kinds of public debates again that enlarges 
our understanding of what's possible, we have to  
start training and we have to start training 
our young people. We have to train ourselves  
to be able to engage in those conversations. 
The second is the importance of format. So in  
the debates between these two men and some of them 
were in colleges, some of them were on television,  
some of them were in radio. It's striking how 
long they were given to make their points. It  
wasn't one to two minutes then interruptions. 
Often they would be given quite a long stretch  
of time to present their arguments with the 
knowledge that once they had spoken the other  
person would speak and they would get another 
turn. So they could and they were sometimes  
forced to sit back and listen knowing that 
their chance was not now, it was coming later.  
So there's an importance of the kind of format 
in which we pit two people against one another.  
The third thing that you see in those debates is 
the importance of having a relationship with the  
person that you're disagreeing with that's greater 
than just the disagreement itself. So behind the  
scenes of these big public encounters, Farmer 
and Malcolm X were getting to know one another.  
They were going to one another's houses. And 
so by being in a relationship with the other  
person that's more than just the differences, by 
introducing the family to one another, by seeing  
the other areas of life, by doing other things 
together, you can often enlarge the possibility  
of what you do within the debate. You can be 
more candid there. You can be fullthroated. can  
come at the other person honestly, but you know 
there's a relationship that you can fall back on.  
So I started debating because I moved in the third 
grade from South Korea to Australia without really  
speaking English. And I quickly found the hardest 
part of crossing language lines of cultural lines  
was adjusting to real life conversation where 
people can mid-sentence pivot into talking about  
something else where what their faces say and what 
their gestures say don't always match the words  
that are coming out of their mouths. And I found 
that all of those difficulties tended to compound  
in disagreements where passions tend to run and 
people tend to be more disruptive, to interrupt,  
to speed up and slow down at unexpected moments. 
And in response to all that, I resolved to be  
very agreeable in the way in which I presented at 
school and to keep my thoughts to myself. And the  
thing that changed that and shook me out of that 
was I joined the debate team off the strength of  
one promise from my fifth grade elementary school 
teacher which was that in debate when one person  
speaks no one else does. And to someone who had 
been used to being interrupted and spun out of  
conversation that sounded to me like a kind of 
salvation. One of the things that I learned as  
a person really on the margins who didn't really 
speak the language, was visibly out of place on  
the playground and in the and in the classroom was 
I learned to listen. I learned to read a room. I  
learned to take the temperature of a place before 
I ever raised my voice. And I learned to do that  
not to get hurt first of all, but also because it 
was the only way in which I would ever be heard.  
And it so happens that many of the most successful 
debaters tend to come from these slightly marginal  
backgrounds to have the perspective of someone on 
the periphery. And I think the reason for that is  
because though it's easier to focus on the person 
at the front of the room delivering a debate  
speech, much of the action of debate and much of 
the strategy of getting ahead in debate involves  
listening really intently not only to what one's 
opponent is saying, but also to listen from the  
perspective of an audience so that you might be 
able to anticipate what they might need to hear  
next. And so what started for me as a kind of 
a liability or uh a disadvantage that I had  
to overcome ended up being a tremendous strength 
because I think one of the great lessons of debate  
is in order to be heard, you have to first listen. 
Debates are only as good as the information and  
the knowledge and the skills that debaters 
bring to it. And one of the more concerning  
things that we see at the moment is people's 
information diets not being sufficiently varied,  
not being sufficiently rich to sustain the kinds 
of conversations that we want to have. The first  
thing is we cannot allow the debates that we see 
on cable television to be a kind of a replacement  
for the disagreements that we should be having 
in our day-to-day lives. So our political leaders  
or our favorite media personalities can't be like 
avatars to whom we outsource the work of thinking  
for ourselves and having these conversations for 
ourselves. So the first is viewing media not as  
a substitution but as a source of equipment and 
knowledge that we can then transfer into the kinds  
of conversations that we have. The second thing is 
having a a variety and a diversity of sources that  
we turn to to get our information. And one of the 
impulses that partisan media, siloed information  
sources feed off is our desire to be validated, 
to have news reflect back to us what we already  
believe to be true about the world. And just 
the way that debate encourages us to seek out  
differences and to see them as productive and 
revoly and mindexpanding. So we should view the  
different signals and information and perspectives 
we take in because that richer diet allows us to  
see more perspectives and to challenge our 
own thinking more consistently. For me,  
my love of debate and desire to see things from 
different perspectives to if not always agree then  
at least to understand the perspective from which 
others are coming from is inextricably tied to a  
life that I've led of always moving countries. I 
had to move from South Korea to Australia as an  
8-year-old. I grew up in Australia, then moved to 
the US for college. I got a post-graduate degree  
in China and and then came back through Australia 
back to the US. And through each of these moves,  
there was a lot of work of translation and work 
of adaptation and having to figure out where the  
surroundings were at before I could make a home in 
them. And a lot of that was information gathering,  
whether that be reading the news, but often in 
conversation with people in those locations,  
in those neighborhoods to figure out that most 
basic and difficult question, which is where am  
I? And to do that, you needed all the help that 
you could get. And you needed to rely on all the  
information sources you could get. And one of 
the things that I learned to do, I think, is  
to resist easy answers to that question. Um, and 
to try and piece together from a kind of a mosaic  
um all the different sides of a place. We're used 
to thinking about listening as an essentially  
passive act where we sit back in our chairs and 
take it all in. Debaters know that it's a much  
more active process than that. So when a speaker 
is speaking, a debater has paper and pen ready  
and they're doing at least three things. The first 
is they're trying to transcribe in as accurate a  
detail what the other person is saying. And often 
when you separate out your own perceptions of what  
the speech is versus the reality of it, you'll 
find that it's sometimes different. The next thing  
that you're trying to do is try and reconstruct 
the argument that's being presented in its most  
basic form to say what is the real thrust of this 
argument and can I put it down on the page and  
organize it on the page in a way the other side 
would recognize as faithful to their argument. The  
next thing that you're doing is you're sometimes 
building up that argument into even a stronger  
version. So what else could the opposition have 
said to further their argument to improve their  
argument? And through this process, you're not 
only listening to the words that's coming out,  
you're trying to reconstruct the deeper meaning 
behind it, you're trying to strengthen their  
argument, all for the purpose of being able to 
engage with their case and their perspective  
more fully. There are two lessons that we can take 
away from how debaters listen and and to try and  
apply it in our own lives. The first is it is in 
your best interest to understand the opposition's  
argument as they would understand it. And what 
that means is it's not in your best interest to  
twist their meaning or to take it at its worst 
or to capture only a fraction of it because they  
won't feel as though they had been listened to 
and heard and ultimately responded to. And unless  
that moment, that click and that moment of contact 
happens, it's not a real disagreement. It's not a  
real debate. It's a kind of a quarrel or people 
talking across one another. The second thing is  
it's also in your best interest to respond to the 
strongest version of the other side and sometimes  
to build up the other side's case so that it's 
even better than where they have it now. And the  
reason for that is, you know, after you finish 
speaking, the opposition might have a light bulb  
and come up with a better case or someone on their 
side might say, "You've responded to the weak  
version of this argument, but here's something 
better." So the further you can take it and the  
stronger the version of the other side you can 
respond to, the further ahead you pull, the more  
you challenge the other side to go even further 
and the better the conversation becomes. Arguments  
are easy to start and hard to end because 
difference is the natural state of things. There  
are any number of differences between two people 
and when one of those issues comes to the four,  
you can have a disagreement. But unless you're 
selective about the kinds of arguments that you  
pick and unless you're careful to say we're having 
this disagreement at this moment and not all the  
other disagreements we could be having, all of 
the differences between two people can start  
flooding in and the argument becomes this unruly 
mass of of conflict between two people where any  
of the potential sources of conflict can come to 
the four and you're not making progress on any  
given one. As a competitive debater, you become a 
bit enthusiastic about disagreeing and you tend to  
want to take on any claim that you might disagree 
with and and and and try to provide the best  
argument against it. And one of the frameworks 
that I developed in order to be a little bit  
more judicious to pick my fights more wisely is 
called the RISA framework. And that is before  
launching into a disagreement or challenging 
a claim to ask four things. First, whether  
the disagreement is in fact real as opposed 
to an imagined slight or a misunderstanding.  
The second is to ask whether it's important enough 
to you to justify the disagreement. The third is  
to ask whether the question or the topic of 
disagreement is specific enough in order for  
you to make some progress. And the fourth is to 
ask whether you and the other person engaged in  
the disagreement are aligned in your objectives 
for wanting to partake in that conversation.  
And by checking off on these four lists, you can't 
guarantee that a conversation is going to go well,  
but you may be able to give it the best possible 
chance of doing so. One of the limitations of the  
RISA framework that I worry about is that it is 
increasingly difficult to find the right kind  
of alignment in people's interest for wanting to 
engage in a disagreement. So if you have two sides  
that simply want to hurt one another's feelings by 
having an argument, that's some kind of alignment,  
but not the right kind that leads to productive 
conversations. And the place where the RISA  
framework can go wrong is in a world where 
everybody wants to engage in disagreements for bad  
reasons. And to combat that, I think we need to 
restore confidence and faith in what disagreements  
can be and to highlight its potential as 
a source for good as well as a source for  
ill. So one place where you might be able to apply 
the RISA framework is an event that is a source  
of dread for a lot of people which is getting 
together with extended family for Thanksgiving  
or Christmas or Easter and knowing that some of 
the personal or political disagreements are going  
to bubble up to the surface. The RISA framework 
provides two sources of help in that situation.  
The first is that every disagreement should 
start with a little bit of agreement. And  
that is often naming exactly what it is that you 
disagree about so that it doesn't bubble up into  
uh an unruly conflict about all the different 
slights and and and disagreements and all the  
different areas in which you don't see eye to eye. 
And the first step is to name the disagreement in  
front of you. And you need to do that before you 
can even start to apply the RISA framework. The  
second thing is it may be that two people don't 
start with the same objectives in mind when they  
enter the conversation. But one of the things 
that you might be able to do is to check well why  
do you want to engage in this disagreement? And 
can we come to an agreement about what it is that  
we're hoping to get out of this conversation. So 
forcing the slightly quarrelome family member who  
just wants to be a contrarian or to cause trouble 
to say, "Are you really in this hoping to persuade  
me to change my mind? Or are you really in this to 
hear my perspective or a different take on these  
positions that you hold?" That bit of negotiation 
of why it is that we're in the conversation in the  
first instance. And that level of alignment can 
often allow our conversations to go better than  
if we just jump into the disagreements without 
much forethought. If intelligence is the ability  
to respond to any argument, wisdom lies in knowing 
which arguments to respond to and which parts of  
an argument to respond to. And debaters usually 
ask two questions. The first is is a given point  
within the opposition's argument or case is 
it necessary to challenge in order for us to  
resolve the overall dispute? And if it's not, is 
us challenging it or disagreeing with it going to  
help us make progress on the overall dispute. So 
by asking whether a point that the other side is  
making no matter how offensive or wrong seeming it 
may be by asking whether it's first necessary to  
challenge or even if it's not whether challenging 
it would help us make progress on the argument.  
You can be a little bit more judicious uh in 
how you disagree and prevent our arguments from  
becoming this unruly all-encompassing dispute. 
The importance of beginning a dispute with the  
RISA framework is that it allows us to almost make 
a contract with the other side to say this is what  
we're disagreeing about and these are the reasons 
why we're engaging in that dispute. And one of the  
things that you can do with someone who tries 
to break those rules to expand the debate into  
something it wasn't about to change the topic to 
uh introduce new reasons for wanting to engage  
in the dispute is just to remind ourselves of the 
agreement that we made of the kind of disagreement  
that we want to have and what we want to disagree 
about and to bring the conversation back to those  
parameters. So much of debate is an exercise in 
certainty. It's about spending sometimes weeks  
researching your side of the case, coming up 
with the best possible arguments that you can,  
coming up with the best lines that you can to 
sell the truth of your side to the listener.  
But in the last moments before a debater goes on 
stage, they know to take a breath, to take out  
a new sheet of paper, and to put themselves in 
their opponent's shoes and write the four best  
arguments for the opposing side. They know also to 
look over their case again, this time through the  
eyes of someone who fervently disagrees with them 
and to identify all of the flaws and the mistakes  
and the criticisms that could be leveled against 
them. Debaters also know to imagine to imagine a  
world in which they lost the debate and to come up 
with the reasons why they did. And those exercises  
which are called the sides switch exercises puts 
a pause on that feeling of certainty. It makes us  
feel for a moment the subjective reasonleness of 
other people's beliefs. It gives us that moment  
where we get back on our toes and think maybe we 
missed something. It makes us imagine a world in  
which we're wrong or at least we're judged 
to be wrong. And all of that isn't humility,  
isn't empathy in and of itself, but it creates a 
wrigle room through which something like humility  
or empathy might arise. I find empathy hard 
to practice in my day-to-day life because I  
often feel as though I don't know what it is. 
Sometimes it feels like a kind of a magical  
psychic connection that you look into the eyes of 
someone and then somewhere music starts playing  
in the background or it feels like a virtue that 
some people are born with and that other people  
don't possess. It was through the experience of 
debating that I saw a different view of empathy  
which is empathy as a series of actions which by 
putting yourselves in the shoes of an opponent  
and coming up with some arguments for their case 
or by looking at yourself through the eyes of an  
opposition and trying to look at all the reasons 
why you might be wrong. I think so many of our  
conversations at the moment feel like they're 
stuck. It's people fully convinced of their  
views shouting at at each other from a distance 
and it's a kind of a trench warfare where people  
are fully entrenched in the position that they've 
always held and creating that little wiggle room  
for doubt for letting in the possibility that the 
other side might have a couple of points in their  
favor and that you might have missed something. 
I think that's one way in which empathy comes in  
at a time when it's in such short supply. The 
sites which exercises and the kind of empathy  
that debate brings into the conversation is not 
only applicable in personal disagreements but  
in my view more urgently needed than ever in our 
political disputes in disputes between political  
parties and factions and and your ideological 
commitments. But in order for us to be able to  
put into practice, I think we have to remember 
that each of us are bigger than our political  
affiliations, than our religious commitments, than 
our ideological beliefs. And more importantly,  
the other person is more than a representative 
of their party or their position in society or  
the beliefs that they hold. And by allowing our 
encounters to be larger than the affiliations  
that we have, that gives us the best chance, 
I think, of being able to explore new ideas,  
to listen to the particular nuances of where 
the other person is coming from and not the  
categories we would place them in. And it's 
in that setting that exercises like side  
switch become most effective. When we view the 
other person and when we view ourselves in our  
fullness and not merely by our membership or 
affiliation in groups of like-minded folks.
Chapter two, why arguments break down. One of 
the hardest questions I had to grapple with in  
writing this book is are there some subjects that 
we simply should not debate? And the conclusion I  
came to is we should draw at least one bright 
line which is saying we should not debate the  
equal moral standing of persons. And the reason 
for that is the whole premise of debate. And the  
reason why we give people equal time in which to 
speak and we give them the promise of being able  
to speak uninterrupted is because we say their 
voice is worth hearing and their voice is worth  
hearing equally as that of their opponent. And so 
a debate about whether a certain race of people  
or group of people are inferior would not be 
would be antithetical to what debate stands for.  
The recent attempts to shut down debates about 
certain topics or to deplatform speakers who have  
been spreading divisive and hurtful messages. 
Seems to me both a response to the fact that  
many of us have lost the ability to disagree 
constructively and passionately and humanely. But  
it also seems a reflection of a lack of confidence 
that the resulting disagreements can be anything  
other than a source of pain and of division. And 
so one of the things that I think the skills of  
debate does that the RISA framework does that 
sides switching does is it expands the scope of  
what we are able to talk about because it enlarges 
and improves and strengthens our ability to talk  
about contentious and difficult issues in humane, 
compassionate and productive ways. So one of the  
reasons why we need the skills of debate now is 
at a time when there are all these pressures to  
shut down debate to be able to not only talk about 
more things but to do it in a way that brings in  
people rather than excludes them. There's a lot of 
literature now about how you might be able to pull  
ahead in social media fights. There's wisdom about 
not engaging in the discussion forever, not using  
too many inflammatory words, so on and so on. But 
I tend to be a little bit more pessimistic about  
it. And I think in order for us to start building 
back the skills of good argument, we usually need  
to do it face to face. And we might need to do 
it in the absence of an audience to start with so  
that we resist the urge to perform for an audience 
but rather listen and respond to the person  
across from us. So, it may well be that a better 
version of social media that doesn't amplify the  
most inflammatory material, that doesn't have 
anonymous contributors, that doesn't have the  
kind of the culture of hate and and and and vile 
disagreements that we see at present. It may be  
that we can one day equip ourselves to engage in 
a better form of social media, but I tend to think  
the starting place has to be face to face, has 
to be maybe away from an audience to begin with,  
so that we're building one interaction 
at a time the skills that we have lost.  
The people in my life who are most quarrelome, who 
are most primed to always engage in disagreements  
tend to want, I think, two irreconcilable things. 
The first is often they want to be heard and they  
want to have their perspective carry through and 
to connect with the listener. But another slightly  
darker desire they have is to dominate over their 
opponents and to show themselves superior. And the  
two are in conflict because the point of one is to 
make a connection with the other side and to have  
your message carry through. Whereas the other is 
to almost leapfrog over the listener and to show  
yourself to be better than them. And so I think 
those people are often caught. And one of the  
reasons why the people who are most quarrelome, 
who put themselves out as best at debate,  
need to continue engaging with it, is because they 
don't quite find what they're looking for. And I  
think what they're looking for is connection. 
I've had to think a lot about conflict aversion  
because I myself am a pretty conflict averse 
person. I used to be one and I still feel the  
instinct of that despite all my years in debate. 
And this is something I've changed my mind about.  
I used to think that conflict aversion was 
a lack of confidence in one's own abilities,  
a kind of a defensiveness to shield oneself from 
hurt, to protect oneself from revealing too much  
or becoming too vulnerable to the other side. And 
I think that is one element. But nowadays I think  
conflict aversion also shows a lack of confidence 
in the other person in their ability to receive  
you with some measure of grace to respond to you 
kindly and to make something constructive out of  
the conversation you're building together. And 
so I think the common trait of conflict averse  
folks is a lack of confidence not only in one's 
own abilities but I think more controllingly  
more importantly in the other person. Where the 
conflict averse person and the highly combative  
person meet in my view is in their shared desire 
for a connection. And it's a connection that they  
don't get just by persisting in their most natural 
modes. You can't connect if the only grounds on  
which you connect with another person or you reach 
out to another person is similarity rather than  
difference. And similarly, you can't connect 
if your whole desire is to dominate or to show  
yourself to be superior than the other person. 
So in managing both of those personalities as a  
debater and as a coach but also as in my view 
every human contains both of these instincts  
within them. I think the place where they meet and 
the middle ground where good arguments stem from  
is from a recognition that it's through connection 
with others. It's through an encounter with others  
that we get more than we would be able to on our 
own. Some of the most painful disagreements we  
come across in our day-to-day lives are with loved 
ones. And I think the reason for that in one word  
is carelessness. When it comes to those whom we're 
closest to, we are usually quickest to assume they  
should agree with us. After all, they're the 
people we've chosen to share our lives with.  
We're quickest to assume they should understand 
us even when we're not expressing ourselves very  
clearly. After all, they're the people who know 
us best. And the combination of all of those  
things is we're least likely to think about the 
effort that it takes to disagree well because we  
have this idea that love should be effortless. 
Um, and the great tragedy of that is if only we  
love the other person a little bit less or if we 
cared for them a little bit less, then maybe our  
disagreements would be less painful. The more we 
care about another person, the more high stakes a  
disagreement feels. The closer we feel to another 
person, the more we think they must agree with us.  
And the more of our lives we share with another 
person, the more points of potential disagreements  
arise. So in this time of extreme polarization, 
the impulse to seek out agreement can feel  
pretty attractive. And this is the rhetoric of 
remember there is no red America, no blue America,  
right? This is the unifying rhetoric of focusing 
on all of the different things that we have in  
common rather than the things that bring us 
apart. And someone might plead at this point,  
we're all human after all and we should focus 
on that. And the force of that argument, that  
unifying rhetoric derives not only from what we 
can do when we focus on the agreement between us,  
but I think also from the shadow that lurks, which 
is disagreements can be really destructive. And  
so part of the appeal of that unifying logic 
comes from conjuring up the boogeymen of what  
disagreement can be. And at least it's not that. 
At least we can have agreement that's a little  
bit thinner, maybe a little bit blander, just 
having to do with us being generally human or  
living in the same place. But it's better than the 
alternative of divisive and painful disagreements.
Chapter 3. Power, persuasion, 
and bad faith debate.  
I think we're living at a time of real distrust of 
rhetoric. And when we say something is rhetoric,  
we mean something like it's mere rhetoric. Those 
are just empty words or you're trying to fool me  
in some way. You're trying to manipulate me. And 
the origins of that suspicion of rhetoric come  
right from the beginning of rhetoric as a kind of 
an education and a tradition. So there's a debate  
between Socrates and Gorgius who's a rhetorician 
and a public speaker and Socrates accuses Gorgius  
essentially of practicing an art rhetoric which 
is divorced from the truth that prays on people's  
desire to be flattered that prays on their kind of 
ficklessness and their responsiveness to emotional  
appeal rather than the dictates of reason. And 
this view and this suspicion of rhetoric has  
really won out these days. When people say that's 
just rhetoric, it's a kind of an accusation. It's  
a put down. It's a way to reveal a kind of a 
trick. And in the book, I take the opposite view  
that it's precisely because of our frailties, our 
capacity to be lazy, our capacity to be apathetic  
that we need things that tug at our heartstrings 
and forces us to take some action. that because it  
takes an enormous amount of activation energy to 
change our minds at all, let alone to act on those  
changed beliefs, we need something greater than 
ourselves to pull us along. Now, that comes with  
a recognition that we're playing with murial 
elements, right? With emotion, with passion,  
with fellow feeling, with identifying with the 
speaker. But as with so many things in debate, a  
conversation that doesn't have these elements that 
make us human is also a conversation diminished.  
It's a conversation that is not lifelike and that 
lacks some of the vastness, some of the richness  
that a real human conversation can provide. And 
to do that, I think you need rhetoric. Whenever we  
teach a population a great and powerful new skill 
that can be used for good or for evil, we need to  
give them the tools to manage that new power. And 
that's true of whether it's nuclear physics or  
whether it's a martial art or whether it's working 
in weapons development. You need to give people  
both the ability to harness the power for good and 
to prevent it from being used for bad. And I think  
this is true for debate too. That in a world where 
many people possess the tools of rhetoric, some of  
them will use it for evil, will use it to promote 
bad ends. and a population that understands both  
faces of rhetoric, the ways in which it can 
be used for good, but the ways in which it  
can be hijacked and abused. I think that's a 
population that has more immunity to demagoguery,  
to the abuses of rhetoric because they're able to 
identify what is happening to be able to call it  
out in some instances and resist the temptation 
to simply go along with it uncritically. There  
are three principles from debate on using rhetoric 
more effectively in our disagreements. The first  
is proportionality. The second is personality. 
And the third is panache. It's the three Ps. The  
first is many of the abuses of rhetoric come 
when the kinds of claims that we're making or  
the words we're using or the gestures we're making 
are out of sync with the content of the arguments.  
They exaggerate or they diminish or they're out 
of proportion. So the first is not to overstate  
things but not to understate things either both 
in terms of the language that we use and in the  
gestures that we use. So there has to be a kind of 
a proportionality between the rhetoric we marshall  
in favor of our arguments and the arguments 
themselves. The second is personality which  
is bringing ourselves into our arguments a little 
bit more. Remember what we're trying to do is to  
make the audience undergo a kind of a change to 
end up somewhere believing something they didn't  
before. And in order to do that, they have to 
make a kind of a journey from where they were  
to where they're going. And one way in which we 
might be able to help them undergo that journey  
is by explaining how we went through that process 
ourselves. So people may not always know very much  
about a particular issue or the truth of any given 
claim but people are pretty good at judging other  
people and by showing your own journey and how 
you got to the position and the perspective that  
you're offering that can often be very useful. 
The last bit is panache which is there is a part  
of rhetoric which is crafting the language putting 
the right combination of words in sequence using  
all the tools of voice and gesture to be able to 
most effectively sell that argument. Those moments  
of panache or what we call in debates sometimes 
applause lines are important because they signal  
to the listener that they are worthy of a certain 
kind of attention and work that we with them  
in mind put in all this time to try and make 
this sound as convincing as we possibly could.  
So Arthur Schoppenhower was a German philosopher 
born in the late 1700s and in addition to all  
of the broad-ranging contributions that he 
made to philosophy from aesthetics to ethics,  
he personally took a pretty dim view of humanity 
and of our situation. He said as a teenager  
having experienced a lot of loss in his family 
that the world must be the work of a devil who  
created the world so that they could relish in 
the suffering that people went through. And in  
his work as a philosopher he was known as a very 
confrontational quarrelome character who picked  
fights with everyone and and try to get one up 
them in a debate and and in a in a disagreement.  
And later in his life, he wrote this uh parody 
document uh called the aristic dialectic where he  
offers 30 odd tactics for beating the other side 
at all costs. And they're tactics like interrupt  
and call the other person names or change the 
subject or offer a nonsequittor to confuse  
the other side. And the question for me and the 
question with any parody is does he believe that  
this is all there is? That this is all people are 
really capable of or is it a kind of a political  
document inspired to help us do better to see our 
situation for what it is the comic slightly tragic  
mess that our disagreements can be and to aspire 
to do something better. So the rules of debate,  
simple as they are, matter because it's what 
makes a conversation a debate rather than  
simply conflict or an exchange of insults. When 
we explode the rules of debate, we change what  
is valued and rewarded in a conversation. So, in a 
free-for-all of the kind that Schopenhau prepares  
us for, the things that are rewarded are leaving 
the other side speechless or putting forward a  
dominant performance that gets the other side to 
trip up or gets the audience to jeer and boo the  
opposition so that we're not able to hear them at 
all. So the rules of debate are important because  
in order for us to reward, reasoning, thinking, 
responding, listening, all of the things that we  
value and should value in conversation, we need 
to first set up a structure that rewards that.  
The one glimmer that we see in this parody 
document by Schopenhau is this notion that  
by understanding the tactics that bullies use, 
by being able to counter them, by being able  
to defend ourselves against them and in some ways 
turn some of those tactics against them, we may be  
able to deter them from using those tactics in the 
first instance. So even in this quite dark view of  
what disagreements can do, there's a sense that 
by learning a kind of a defense against the dark  
arts, we may be able to nudge our conversations in 
a better direction. One of the reasons why debate  
is vulnerable to the manipulations of bad faith 
actors is that it rewards both persuasiveness but  
also the perception of persuasiveness. So as an 
adjudicator or even as a member of the audience,  
you often don't know that much about the 
particular issues that are being debated. You may  
not even know about the people who are presenting 
the argument. Instead, what you have is all of the  
body language, all of the ticks in their speech, 
all of the signals that you get of who's ahead  
and who's behind. And bullies tend to exploit 
that by appearing as the more dominant side,  
the more unshakable side that even when they're 
behind in an argument, by never looking flustered  
or never looking as though they're falling 
behind. And so the bullies tend, in my experience,  
to be especially attuned to the element of debate 
that is spectacle in addition to reason. I think  
the reason why we're susceptible to those kinds 
of manipulations is because we're imperfect. We  
like to be flattered. We like to be told things 
we already believe. We like to feel like we're  
on the winning side. We like to feel like we 
have the protection of someone who's stronger.  
And some of these kinds of baser instincts, some 
of these kinds of insecurities that we all possess  
are exactly what bad faith arguers try to target 
and exploit. I was watching the first presidential  
election debates with my debate partner and 
we'd been we'd received an assignment from  
uh the Atlantic media to write a kind of a review 
of the two candidates performance in the debates  
and maybe to come to a judgment of which of the 
two sides have won. And we were busy taking notes  
throughout writing all of the different tactical 
slip ups and and and moves that the two sides were  
using. But ultimately we ended up never filing 
that article because we didn't feel like it  
had been a debate at all. And so whoever came 
out ahead in the audience polls about who they  
believed had won, in as much as it was a win, it 
wasn't a debate victory. Because what had unfolded  
wasn't a debate, it was a kind of a brawl. What 
was then my greatest triumph in the world of  
debate, which was winning the World University's 
debate championships. And what started as the  
absolute highlight of my years and the height of 
my confidence in what debate could do for a person  
and could do for a society, I saw that sink to 
a kind of a bottom when you saw the two people  
competing for perhaps the most consequential 
office in the entire world um engage in a kind of  
an unedifying spectacle that was a debate in name 
only. And I saw the potential for the format of  
debate to which I'd given much of my still short 
life to. I saw the potential for that format to  
be exploited, to be hijacked, and to be degraded. 
The thing that struck me most about those debates  
is how quickly a stage set up with rules, with 
moderators, with the values of a community  
that had decided to make debates a part of the 
democratic process. How quickly that could be  
turned into a kind of a brawl where there were no 
rules, where the only thing that mattered was the  
display and the spectacle of dominance over the 
other side, where embarrassment was the currency,  
or where bigging oneself up always came at the 
expense of putting the other side down. And  
for me, the takeaway from that was those darker 
impulses that feed into bad disagreements are not  
only within the activity of debate, but they're 
within all of us. That just the way that we have  
the capacity to disagree well, we also have the 
capacity to disagree badly. And both those sides  
and both those impulses have to be managed so 
that we can nudge our arguments in the direction  
of the good. Having seen how the debate format 
can be broken down, can be hijacked by bad faith  
debaters, I resolved to diagnose and list the 
common tactics that are used by bad faith arguers  
so that we might have a hope of recognizing it 
when we see it in practice and responding. And  
I came to four common kinds of bad arguers that 
we see in our day-to-day lives, not only in our  
political lives, but also around the kitchen table 
in our workplaces. And the four common personas  
I came up with were first the dodger, second the 
twister, third the wrangler, and fourth the liar.  
So the dodger wins by essentially changing the 
topic and they usually do this by finding a pivot  
point. So you might say something like we need 
to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels because  
climate change is getting out of hand. Then 
they might say on the topic of climate change,  
why do you drive a four-wheel drive? Right? Or 
why do you have a a a gas guzzler in your garage?  
And it is a kind of a response on the same topic 
but not to the point that you had raised. And so  
the way in which the dodger gets ahead is when you 
take the bait and you start talking about your car  
and and and making defenses for yourself. And so 
the response to the Dodger is to stay the course  
and to keep bringing the discussion back to the 
original point and highlighting that they are  
trying to change what the disagreement is about. 
The second kind of persona is the twister. And  
the twister's signature move is to misrepresent 
the point that you're making. So if you say I'm  
opposed to increasing taxes, the twister might 
say, does that mean you have no concern for social  
security? Or are you so selfish that you think 
there should be no limits on personal property?  
And so this is a kind of a straw man argument 
because it's not the argument you're raising,  
it's the one they're thrusting on you, right? And 
so to respond to the twister, it's imperative to  
correct the record and say, "No, that's not what 
I'm saying." Because once you get this kind of  
misrepresentation, you can often get into a 
position of arguing for something you don't  
believe or at least the conversation splitting and 
you not being able to connect and talk about the  
same issue. It can often be difficult to respond 
to a personality like the twister because you get  
a sense that something is going wrong here 
or clearly they're pulling something on you  
but you're not sure what it is. And so one of the 
reasons why we need to be able to recognize things  
like straw man and just have the vocabulary to 
be able to say that's what they're doing is so  
that we're able to pause and diagnose what has 
gone wrong in the disagreement. The third kind  
of bad arguer is called the wrangler. And this is 
the person for whom nothing is ever good enough.  
They're very good at coming up with critiques 
against just about everything that you're saying,  
but they never offer an alternative of their own. 
And this is a problem because your solution or the  
thing you're arguing for probably isn't perfect. 
But so long as it's better than the alternative,  
which might be just doing whatever we're doing 
now, it still probably is the preferable solution.  
And so the appropriate response to the wrangler is 
to say, well, what do you believe? In other words,  
to pin them to a position so that they too 
have to argue in favor of something rather  
than always saying no. The fourth personality 
and someone we see just about everywhere in our  
public and private discussions these days is 
the liar. And one of the things we know about  
the liar is they usually don't tell one lie, 
they tell many. so that it becomes overwhelming  
and their opponent either doesn't know how to 
respond to this effluence of stuff coming out  
from the other side or they waste all their time 
trying to respond. So the strategy against a liar  
is to choose one or two representative lies that 
you think best exemplifies the approach that the  
liar is taking in a disagreement. Then debaters do 
something called plug and replace. The first is to  
imagine as though the opposition's claim is true 
and then to explain all the problems that arise  
when you make that assumption. So let's imagine if 
what you're saying is that immigrants cause lots  
of trouble when they come into a country. Then 
how do you explain the fact that crime rates among  
that community is actually lower than the rest of 
the population? Then you replace the lie with a  
truth and say it's in fact not true that they are 
kind of bad actors who cause all these problems  
and that explains what we know to be true about 
the world. And so by plugging in the lie and then  
replacing it with the truth, you can demonstrate 
the ways in which the lie falls short and try  
and explain how that's symptomatic of a broader 
approach that the liar is taking to the debate.  
It's entirely impractical to try to respond to 
every single lie. And so it becomes important  
to choose one or two of the lies that are most 
representative. And that shows something about how  
the other side is approaching the disagreement. 
And by even naming that this is what they're  
doing. They're trying to overwhelm us with the 
volume of lies. You start to take away some of the  
illusion or some of the trick by revealing how it 
works. So now let's imagine you're up against one  
of these players who's dominant and blustering 
and super confident in their abilities. How do  
you respond? I think the first thing is to stay 
the course. And so often people tend to shrink  
themselves or to change their own behavior in 
response to the bullies. They often try to imitate  
them and play their game, which they usually can't 
because most of us are not built to be bullies  
and these kinds of blustering showmen. or they 
try to speed up, for example, and shrink their  
contributions into the spaces that the bullies 
allot us when they're not interrupting us. So,  
the key is to remain calm and not to change our 
behavior in response to how they're trying to get  
us to change. The second is to actually pause and 
say, is it a debate that we're trying to have or  
is it something else? Because one of the ways 
in which bullies get ahead is by changing the  
nature of the conversation that we're having. 
And as soon as you start playing the same game,  
trash talking and calling them names and so 
on, that becomes the exercise that you're  
now engaged in. So it's a the second move is to 
stop and remind people that it's a debate that  
we're trying to have and not something else. And 
the last thing is if you're unable to do that,  
you should also be able to defer the conversation 
and say we're not getting anywhere at the moment  
and we're going to stop until we are able to get 
to a point of agreement again about the kind of  
conversation that we want to have. And so even 
at a time when we might feel hopeless faced with  
a bully or a bad faith debater, we need to have 
tools so that we're able to respond, but we also  
have these three strategies available to us to 
reset the kind of conversation we want to have.  
The fifth persona of bad faith disagreement 
differs from the other four because he or she  
is not interested in trying to pull a sneaky 
maneuver within the logic of debate. Rather,  
it's their aim to change the conversation from a 
debate into something else into a kind of a brawl  
or an allout disagreement where anything goes. And 
so brawlers get ahead by changing the rules of the  
game so fundamentally that all of those things 
that we value and debate now go out the window  
and you're essentially in a kind of a fist fight 
uh fought over words. The first thing to remember  
is though many of us contain the impulses to 
brawl to turn a debate into something other than a  
debate very few people I think are actually beyond 
the pale and so pausing a conversation reminding  
them it's a debate that we're trying to have and 
not a different kind of conversation I think can  
often be effective at checking and reminding the 
other side I know what you're trying to do and  
I'm trying to resist it. I'm trying to bring this 
conversation back on course. So in most instances  
against most people even when they are inhabiting 
this bullying persona, I think the right thing is  
to try and bring the conversation back into the 
mold of a debate. But there are instances where  
on that day or just because of the kind of person 
they are, they're not amendable to engaging in the  
kind of conversation you want to. And when 
you have someone like that, it may well be  
that persuasion can no longer be the aim of the 
exchange. It can be something like checking their  
lies or offering a different perspective. But so 
when you're faced with someone who is a brawler  
to their core, a bully to their core, then you 
have to shift in your orientation away probably  
from simply persuading them, but to maybe checking 
their lies or to offering a different perspective.  
One thing that knowledge and mastery of this kind 
of defense against the dark arts allows us to do  
is to challenge the bullies in our lives. And some 
of that is a necessity because they're there and  
they often bring the fight to us. But it's also 
an important thing to engage bad faith actors as  
early as we can and in many many instances as 
often as we can because the power of bullies  
increases without challenge and the ability of 
their lies to set in and to spread. All of that is  
increased where there is no competing perspective. 
So one of the things that this toolkit allows us  
to do is it allows us to challenge views that 
would otherwise go undetected or underappreciated  
or unchallenged. So one place where we saw these 
three moves of staying the course of pausing and  
reminding people it's a debate and of deferring 
the round until the circumstances are more  
hospitable to having a debate uh took place during 
the height of the cold war where the then US vice  
President Richard Nixon debated the Soviet premier 
Nikita Krushov at a model US home in Moscow. Now,  
and here you had on one side a relatively spelt 
kind of a very savvy political operator in Nixon  
and on the other side a much larger kind of 
imposing physical presence who embodied in some  
way the Soviet alternative to the US vision of 
liberal democracy. And in the debate that ensued,  
Nixon had been a kind of a champion high 
school debater who had been taught that it's a  
conversation that we're trying to have in debate, 
that you shouldn't shout at your opponents, that  
you shouldn't talk over them. He came across in 
Kruch, a person who was used to hearing the sound  
of his own voice, right? Uh and not being spoken 
over uh and dominating every conversation he took  
part in. And in response, Nixon seemed to pull 
out some of the strategies that he had learned  
as a debater. He refused to change his argument 
strategy in response to Krishv's attempt to  
interrupt. He stayed the course. He slowed down. 
He paused while the other person was speaking, but  
picked up right where he had left off. He called 
out all the constant interruptions. He said,  
"In the US, we would call you a filibuster because 
you do all the talking." And that kind of moment  
of levity reset and took some of the heat out uh 
of what would otherwise have been people talking  
over one another. And when none of that was 
working, Nixon said, "Let's do this again another  
time." Right? And and forced an agreement from 
Krushchev that they would pick up the discussion  
at a future point. And we know Nixon actually as 
someone who had his hopes in electoral politics  
harmed in part by the televised debates with JFK 
and the big story there was that he was the loser.  
uh but in this earlier confrontation where he 
stood for as the voice of an entire country  
really against its main adversary it seemed 
that the skills of debate stood him in much  
better position there so as a debater you 
don't win every round you don't lose every  
round but the skills can come in quite useful so 
Thomas Hogs the English philosopher took a pretty  
pessimistic view not only of disagreements But 
the kinds of people we become when we engage in  
disagreements which is we become petty, we become 
defensive, we focus on people's personality. And  
he believed that these petty disputes can grow 
into a kind of a conflration that brings down  
not only relationships but also nations. And 
this was a man who lived through periods of war.  
And so he saw the destructive force that arguments 
can be. And looking at all that damage, which I  
think is not dissimilar to where we are and the 
kind of things that we see in the destructive  
capacity of disagreements, he concluded that the 
appropriate response was to take on a posture  
of civil silence towards one another. that 
we wouldn't engage in these disagreements,  
that we would as much as possible try to grin 
and bear to tolerate one another's differences  
and not to disagree about them overtly, lest the 
disagreements grow into a state of conflict that  
none of us can control. I mean, Hobbes is a pretty 
smart guy and uh and so it's hard to dismiss some  
of these ideas too flippantly. And the honest 
truth is I felt the force um of that wisdom in my  
day-to-day life. You know, when I was feeling like 
I didn't have a voice or when I was feeling like I  
was on the margins and my being my welcomeness in 
a place was kind of conditional on me not causing  
too much trouble or rocking the boat. When I've 
been through periods in my life where I've felt  
that kind of defensiveness or vulnerability, 
I often did have the thought it would go a lot  
easier if we could focus on our similarities and 
to minimize as much as possible the differences.  
And the problem with that is our commonalities are 
only one part of the fullness of our relationship  
with one another. And part of what makes the 
encounter between two people meaningful is not  
only all the things that they share, but the 
differences. And that variety is a source of  
challenge. It's the way in which we piece together 
truth from different perspectives. It's the way in  
which we go beyond ourselves, learn something new, 
reach for something new. And so a life built just  
around agreement is an impoverished life because 
it requires taking away and ignoring so much  
of the richness of human relationships and the 
encounters they give rise to. I see debate as one  
answer to a broader question which is how do we 
disagree better? And though debate is an important  
answer to the question, it's not the only way 
in which we can disagree. And in the same way,  
I see the question of how we disagree better as 
one answer to the question, what do we do about  
the fact that each of us are different, but that 
we must find ways of getting along. Disagreeing  
about our differences is not the only way in 
which we coexist and learn to navigate around  
our differences. We can also negotiate. We can 
collaborate. We can tolerate. We can let some  
things pass. But we can also disagree. In the same 
way, we can disagree by debating, but we can also  
do it through organizing our side against your 
side. We can do it by lobbying one another. We  
can do it by negotiating. And so debate is one 
set of tools that we can bring to disagreement  
just the way disagreement is one approach we can 
bring to the broader project of living together.
Four times a year we print a magazine worth 
putting your phone down for. Big thinks premium  
print magazine is built with custom artwork and 
expert insight from the world's biggest thinkers.  
No AI slap, no rage bait, just big 
ideas for curious people. Support  
the media you want to see in the world. 
Go to bigthink.com/membership to join.