My name is Jim Al-Khalili and I'm Emeritus 
Professor of Physics at the University of  
Surrey. My book is called 'On Time', the physics 
that makes the universe tick. If you look up the  
problem of time online, there will be various 
definitions of what is regarded as the problem  
of time. I like to lay out four different distinct 
problems. One is whether time flows. The second,  
how can we reconcile quantum field theory with 
Einstein's general theory of relativity? Third,  
what is special about now? The fourth and final 
problem of time. Where does this direction of time  
come from? At the end of this interview, hopefully 
we'll lay out the problems and the questions  
and the paradoxes, some of which we've figured 
out, others remain. For me as a physicist, I try  
to understand the external world, try and make 
sense of it. And to do that objectively, we have  
to sort of extract ourselves from the thing that 
we're studying. When it comes to time, there's a  
problem because we are unavoidably embedded 
within time. We can't extract ourselves from  
it and view it objectively. Very often, physicists 
and philosophers who study the nature of time make  
this distinction between physical time that is 
embedded within the laws of physics and our own  
perception of time, psychological time. I like 
to use the term manifest time. I think it was  
first used by the philosopher Craig Callender. So 
manifest time is a way of compartmentalizing our  
perception of time from time that is external to 
us. One of the most powerful distinctions between  
our perception of time, manifest time and physical 
time, time that appears in our laws of physics,  
external to our senses, is this notion that we 
feel very strongly that time is flowing. There's  
some continuum, there's change. We tend to think 
that time, and this is quite a strong feeling,  
we tend to think that time speeds up as we 
get older. Where did time go suddenly? I'm  
10 to the last 10, 20 years ago, my kids 
have grown up. How did that happen? And yet,  
your childhood seemed to stretch on forever. So 
there's a theory that suggests it's to do with the  
laying down of new experiences. It's true that 
one year when you're five years old, the period  
between one birthday and the next is a really long 
time. One year when you're 50 years old goes by in  
a flash. There's the opposite property to time 
when you look at shorter intervals. So rather  
than the laying down of new experiences and being 
active, slowing time down, compare half an hour  
sitting in the dentist's waiting room when you 
have nothing to do. You haven't got your phone on,  
you're not reading anything with half an hour at 
a party where you're enjoying yourself. Now at  
the party, you're laying down your experiences. 
You're meeting people, you're chatting to them,  
you have a lot of input coming into your senses. 
And yet that half an hour at the party just goes  
by much more quickly than the time that drags when 
you're sitting in the dentist's waiting room. A  
concept closely related to the nature of time 
is the idea of change. When something changes,  
we think of it in a common sense way as changing 
over time, as time flowing and something changes.  
This idea goes all the way back to the ancient 
Greeks who couldn't agree on whether time was  
fundamental, that it had to exist and then 
change happens within it. Or whether change is  
the fundamental concept and time simply reflects 
that something changes. Physicists have argued  
about this and they argue about it to this day. 
So the great physicist Richard Feynman said that  
time is what happens when nothing else happens. 
That somehow time exists in and of itself. Isaac  
Newton had the view that time was external to 
the universe. External certainly to space and  
things that happen within space. That there's this 
cosmic clock that inexorably ticks by the seconds,  
the minutes, the hours, the years, regardless of 
what we are doing. We can't stop that time. We're  
just caught in the flow and time keeps on going. 
So that absolute notion of time is something that  
Isaac Newton explained and it's something that 
in everyday life, I guess, is the common sense  
view of time. That there is this external clock 
that's ticking by regardless of whether we think  
time is speeding up or slowing down. Of course, 
that idea of an absolute external time was thrown  
away entirely when Einstein developed his theories 
of relativity. Einstein explained there is no such  
thing as absolute time. Time is relative. And yet 
we still have this strong psychological feeling  
that there's a past, there's a future, there's a 
now, there's a flow. Our consciousness is moving  
along this river of time, gobbling up the future, 
spitting out the past. The present moment is ever  
changing. So that notion of change is embedded 
within this idea that time is flowing. And yet in  
the laws of physics, there is change, but there's 
no flow in and of itself to time. In most of our  
equations of physics that describe how something, 
a system changes, yes, it changes over time,  
but time comes in in a very almost trivial way, 
as a humble coordinate, a number, a parameter,  
a symbol, lowercase t that sits inside your 
equation. It's not changing. If you have an  
equation that describes a system, you can just 
look at the mass, look at the equation. Well,  
what does it mean when we evolve this equation 
in time? Well, it just means we're solving this  
equation for a value of this coordinate. What 
a system is doing now is described by what it's  
doing at this particular value of coordinate time. 
But we can also evolve it forward and see what  
it's doing at a different value of coordinate 
time in the future, or evolve it backwards to  
see what it's doing in the past. But there's 
no flow. There's no real change. Their time is  
simply a number that appears in the equations. 
And there must be more to time than that. Well,  
certainly that's our psychological feeling about 
time, that there is change, and we experience  
this change as a continuum. Where is that change? 
Where is that flow in the equations of physics?  
It doesn't exist. So it seems quite natural to us 
that time can speed up or slow down depending on  
what we're doing. If you're having fun, time goes 
by quickly, if you're bored, time drags. But we  
know that's just in our subjective experience. 
It's not what really happens to time. Surely,  
external to our experience, time continues at a 
constant rate everywhere in the universe. Well,  
of course, that's Newtonian time, and that's the 
time of our everyday experience. But Einstein  
comes along and says, "Actually, the idea that 
time speeds up, slows down isn't just subjective,  
isn't just in our heads. There is a real 
physical phenomenon whereby time can run  
at different rates for different observers." 
What we say in different frames of reference.  
That was a revolution in physics. Einstein, 
of course, had two theories of relativity.  
The first one in 1905 was forced upon him by not 
studying the nature of time and space, initially,  
but by studying the nature of light and the 
speed of light. Physicist the late 19th century  
had been searching for the medium that carries 
light. Now, light was known to be a wave. Light,  
therefore, physicists believed, needed something 
to travel through some medium, this ether. The  
fact that I couldn't find it was very puzzling, 
and Einstein overthrew the whole concept of what  
it means, what time and space means, by suggesting 
that light doesn't need an ether at all. Which  
means that however fast you're moving relative to 
someone else, you should still see light moving at  
the same speed. What does this mean? If I shine a 
torch out into space, and then a friend jumps in  
a rocket and flies, let's say, at three quarters 
of the light speed. So I will see light overtaking  
them in their spacecraft at a quarter light speed. 
Einstein says, "You would expect that they would  
see light overtaking them at that same speed." 
But no, they would still see that light overtaking  
them at the same speed that you see it leaving 
you. All observers, however fast they're moving  
relative to each other, will see light moving 
at the same speed. It shouldn't make any sense  
at all, until you realize that they must have 
different concepts of space and time. And in fact,  
my friend travelling in the spacecraft 
trying to catch up with this light beam,  
if you were to look at their clock on board their 
spacecraft, you'd see it ticking by more slowly.  
That's the sun's workout. You change the nature of 
space and time in order to preserve the constancy  
of the speed of light for everyone. So Einstein 
came to this conclusion in his special theory of  
relativity due to the constancy of the speed of 
light and the fact that all motion is relative.  
So no one can say, "I am definitely standing 
still and you're moving." To come up with the  
idea that time and space get altered. And since 
we're talking here about the nature of time,  
this is what leads to the idea of time dilation. 
That time can be seen to run slower on a moving  
clock as it moves past you. Now, if someone's 
moving past me close to the speed of light,  
I will see them doing everything in slow motion. 
It's just not just that their clock is moving  
slower. Somehow their high speed is messing 
with the mechanics of the clock. That whole  
frame of reference I will see time running slower 
in it. However, since all motion is relative, the  
person board the spacecraft that I see behaving in 
slow motion would see me behaving in slow motion  
because for them, I'm doing all the moving. 
And so it's my time that is running slower.  
This idea of time dilation seems like just 
a thought experiment or some notion that  
Einstein's come up with surely doesn't happen in 
the real world. Well, it does. For example, muons  
are subatomic particles that are created in the 
upper atmosphere. Cosmic rays hit the molecules  
of air in the upper atmosphere and the energy from 
the collision creates a whole stream of particles.  
Among them is this particle called the muon, which 
is like the more massive cousin of the electron.  
Muons aren't like electrons in the sense that 
they're not stable. They only live for a fraction  
of a second. These muons that are created in the 
upper atmosphere then stream down to earth. Now,  
we can measure how fast they're moving close to 
the speed of light. Nevertheless, for the distance  
they have to cover at that speed, they would have 
to live a lot longer than their normal lifetime,  
the lifetime they would have at rest. But of 
course, they do manage to get down to the ground  
and we can capture muons in our detectors so we 
know they've arrived from the upper atmosphere.  
How do they do this? Well, because they're 
going close to the speed of light, their clocks,  
their internal clocks that tick by their lifetime 
slow down. So they are living their life in slow  
motion, which gives them enough time to reach the 
earth. Now, the counter explanation to this is how  
does the muon see things? Surely, if all motion is 
relative, the muon sees our clocks running slower.  
Well, of course, from the muon's perspective, 
something else happens when you go close to the  
speed of light, namely distances shrink. So along 
with what's called time dilation, the slowing down  
of time, there's length contraction. And the 
length contraction is the distance the muon  
has to travel from the upper atmosphere to sea 
level. The muon is moving so close to the speed  
of light that it sees this distance shrunk. And it 
says, "Well, I'm only living for two microseconds.  
I'm counting how long I'm living for. The reason 
I can get down to the ground is because I don't  
have to travel that far." So everything fits and 
works logically. But this idea that time slows  
down is real. This notion of time dilation is 
part of Einstein's special theory of relativity.  
There's another way that time slows down. And that 
is part of his general theory of relativity, which  
he developed a decade later. And that's where we 
have to bring gravity into the story. You see,  
in special relativity, it's all about things 
moving at constant velocities. No acceleration,  
no speeding up, slowing down, going around in 
circles. Things have to move in a straight line  
at a constant speed. And then you can use the 
rules of special relativity to talk about time  
intervals and lengths and how fast clocks tick and 
so on. Once Einstein wanted to generalize that,  
he realized he had to bring in acceleration. What 
he referred to as the happiest thought of his life  
was something we now teach as the principle of 
equivalence, which is to say that acceleration is  
equivalent to gravity. Now, we're sort of aware 
of this in everyday language because when a car  
or an aircraft is accelerating, we talk about 
the G-force. Now, that G is G for gravity. When  
you're pushed back in your seat as your car 
accelerates, that's exactly the same force as  
you feel when you're laying down with your head 
resting on the pillow, if you're accelerating at  
1G. This principle of equivalence led to the idea 
that in order to explain the structure and nature  
of four-dimensional space-time, one has to 
come up with a different picture of gravity,  
since gravity is linked to acceleration. And that 
led to Einstein's general theory of relativity,  
which was a theory of gravity that replaced, yet 
again he's replacing something that Newton has  
given us. In general relativity, Einstein 
gives us a new picture of gravity. In that  
intervening 10-year period between special 
theory in 1905 and general relativity in 1915,  
Einstein and other physicists realize that time is 
the fourth dimension, and it's actually you have  
to talk about it in terms of four-dimensional 
space-time. His general theory says, "Yes,  
time is the fourth dimension, part of space-time, 
but gravity curves space-time. Gravity changes  
the shape of space-time." Now, we can't perceive 
space-time as a four-dimensional whole. We can  
only have instruments that measure distances in 
space or clocks that measure intervals in time,  
so we have to sort of separate the two. So how 
does that look to us? Well, time gets slowed down  
by gravity. And again, this is not an optical 
illusion. This is in a sense more fascinating,  
more fun than the time-dilation of special 
relativity, because special relativity, you only  
see that effect when you're going close to the 
speed of light. When I explain this, for example,  
when I give school's talks, and the kids will ask, 
"How do you know you're just making this up?" So,  
well, everyone of you that uses a smartphone, you 
use GPS, you use Google Maps, you are making use  
of the fact that time is running at different 
rates, depending on how strong gravity is. You  
see, the closer you are to the surface of the 
Earth, the stronger the gravitational field and  
the slower time runs. The further out you're going 
to space, the weaker gravity is, and the faster  
time can run. It's only just tiny fractions of a 
second, but it matters. GPS, the satellites that  
are sending radio signals down to our phones, they 
are in orbit around the Earth. They're feeling  
slightly weaker gravity than the clocks on Earth. 
And so time is running faster on board those  
satellites than it is on Earth. So we have to 
take this into account, in a sense, slow down the  
clocks on board the satellites so they synchronize 
with clocks on Earth. Because if we don't do that,  
satellites would not be able to locate our 
position accurately. So it's a real effect. It's  
true, you know, that my head is aging faster than 
my feet. But I'm tiny, tiny fractions of a second,  
but it's there. And of course it gets much more 
dramatic if you go and find a much stronger  
gravitational field. It sounds ridiculous, but 
actually the physics is all correct. We're used to  
describing events that are happening at a point 
in space and a moment in time. So in physics,  
when you want to define an event, say the snapping 
of my fingers, it happened at this point in space  
and at that moment in time, we need four numbers 
to describe it. We know that. Even Isaac Newton  
would have understood that. In special relativity, 
once we unify time and space, time is not just  
another disconnected number, a place in space and 
a moment in time. It's a point in four-dimensional  
space time. Time is this fourth dimension. 
Now, saying time is the fourth dimension is  
easy enough, but what does it actually mean? 
We can't visualize four dimensions. We can  
only visualize three dimensions. Our brains are 
three-dimensional. There's a trick we can do here.  
So I have a three-dimensional construct. What if 
time replaced the third spatial dimension? Now I  
have a three-dimensional construct, two of space 
and one of time, that I can visualize. And this  
leads to an idea very useful in physics called the 
block universe. In a sense, it's a bit like sheets  
of paper in a book. So each sheet or slice is all 
of space at one moment in time. At the one end  
is time at the earliest moment. The direction is 
the time axis. And then you have these slices of  
space for each moment in time. Now, we experience 
time as going by continuously, but you can imagine  
there's a slice for every moment in time. The idea 
of a block universe is very useful because we can  
now draw a picture of it and think about space 
time having thrown away one of the dimensions of  
space. What does it then mean for us to be moving 
through space time? While here, physicists use  
the idea of a world line. So this is a line that 
moves through this block universe. It can start at  
a particular point, which coincides to a point in 
space, at a moment in time, and ends with another  
point in space at a later moment in time. Every 
one of us has a world line. My world line began  
when I was born. I mean, let's make an approximate 
point about that being the moment of my birth,  
being the beginning of my world line. And it will 
end when I die. That world line isn't a straight  
line. It's wavy because although I'm moving 
through time, I'm also moving through space. Now,  
if I were to spend my whole life without moving, 
then I would have a straight line, world line. But  
actually, it waves as I move through space while 
traveling through time. And physicists use world  
lines very usefully when it comes to describing 
things like particles colliding with each other  
and how they move and the speed that they're 
moving at. Probably the most ambitious project  
in physics over the past, certainly half a century 
or more, has been to reconcile quantum mechanics,  
or more correctly, one should say quantum field 
theory, which is the more modern reincarnation of  
the quantum mechanics of 100 years ago, quantum 
field theory with Einstein's general theory of  
relativity, namely, the theory of the very small 
that has time as a coordinate and the theory that  
describes the structure of space-time itself. 
One early attempt at doing this led to what  
we call the Wheeler-Dewitt equation. Wheeler, 
John Wheeler and DeWitt, were two cosmologists  
who try to come up with a way of unifying quantum 
mechanics and relativity theory and devise this  
equation, which has a very remarkable and strange 
feature, namely that it has no time in it. It just  
is. And this is an equation that one can argue 
describes the state of the entire universe,  
the quantum state of the universe, and there's no 
time in it. So this would then add support to the  
notion that at a fundamental level, time is an 
illusion, time doesn't really exist at all. Now,  
of course, the Wheeler-Dewitt equation describes 
the universe as a whole, and you can only really  
appreciate the universe as a whole if you were 
able to extract yourself from outside it. We  
only ever view the universe from within. But the 
Wheeler-Dewitt equation has led to the idea that  
since we perceive time, it seems very real and 
other areas of physics, maybe time is a so-called  
emergent property of reality. Now, emergence is a 
rather complex notion. There's what you might call  
weak emergence, which is the idea that, for 
example, an example of weak emergence is the  
wetness of water. You can't appreciate the wetness 
of water just by examining one H2O molecule. You  
need trillions and trillions of water molecules to 
come together, and the notion of wetness appears.  
Or temperature is another example. There is 
no such thing as temperature when you're just  
looking at one or two molecules bouncing around 
and bumping into each other. But zoom out and  
look at a box of gas molecules bumping into 
each other, and suddenly you get this notion  
of temperature that you can ascribe to it. We 
could, if we studied the microscopic structure  
of a system enough, determine, deduce that once 
you scale it up, you will see properties like  
temperature or the wetness of water emerging. Then 
there's a notion of strong emergence, which is,  
so consciousness is a good example of 
that, that you could never hit upon the  
idea of consciousness just by looking at the 
interaction of individual neurons in the brain.  
So, emergence is something that appears, grows out 
of something more fundamental. And there's been  
this argument that time is also an emergent 
property, it grows out of something deeper,  
something more fundamental. And the suggestion 
is that that deeper thing is embedded within  
the quantum realm. So, in quantum, even though 
in quantum mechanics and the famous equation of  
quantum mechanics, Schrodinger's equation, we're 
Schrodinger developed this equation 100 years ago,  
and it describes how the quantum state of a, say, 
an atom evolves in time. That's an equation that  
does have time in it. We teach physicists at 
university that this Schrodinger equation that  
depends on time can be tweaked and modified, and 
you can arrive at a new version of it, which is  
called the time independent Schrodinger equation, 
where time doesn't exist at all. The wheeler-do-it  
equation for describing the whole universe, 
which brings gravity into quantum mechanics,  
behaves in a similar way. You've extracted time 
from it entirely. So, how is it then that time  
emerges from a timeless universe? And that 
is still a subject that's being studied and  
debated and argued about today. In order to then 
try and have some concrete idea of what time is,  
philosophers have come up with different ways of 
describing, you know, whether there was a special  
present moment that devised the past from the 
future. Einstein tells us that time is the fourth  
dimension, and others will argue that time doesn't 
exist at all. It's all just an illusion. It's a  
construct. It's something that we've invented, 
or it's the thing that clocks measure. So, for  
example, if we divide time up into three parts, 
the past, the present, and the future, one might  
argue that the past has gone. We no longer have 
access to it. All we have access to is records  
of the past, but these are records that we don't 
access in the present moment. The actual events of  
the past are gone. They don't exist. The future 
has yet to be, even in a deterministic universe  
where everything is preordained, nevertheless, the 
future hasn't happened yet, so it doesn't exist.  
All that leaves is the present moment. But the 
present moment isn't extended. It's the dividing  
line between the past and the future. It's the 
shadow between the light and the dark. It doesn't  
have an existence in and of itself. It's just the 
gap between them. So, if the past doesn't exist,  
the future doesn't exist, and the present doesn't 
have any extent that it doesn't exist either,  
we've done away with all of time, then time is 
an illusion. Now, that sounds a bit like sort of  
a philosophical trickery, and in a sense it is, 
because there's the opposite view which is the  
one that's given to us by Einstein, which is to 
say that if time is the fourth dimension, then  
just like the dimensions of space, all points in 
space exist and are equally real. If time is also  
a dimension, then all points in time exist and 
are equally real. Therefore, rather than the past,  
present, and future all being an illusion, they 
are all equally real. They all exist. Time is, in  
a sense, frozen. We experience a present moment. 
We are sort of, you can think of it in terms of  
our consciousness drifting along that time axis, 
and we're stuck on that rail, we're moving along.  
But the time itself, for all eternity, just is. 
All times coexist. So, this is an idea called  
eternalism, and I think probably if push comes 
to shove, most physicists would subscribe to it,  
because we know that Einstein's description 
of time is the best one we have. The idea of  
eternalism, that all times are equally real in 
the block universe, can seem quite bleak. Now, we  
already had a notion that reality is rather bleak 
if we follow what Newton taught us, namely that we  
might well live in what's called a deterministic 
universe, where the future is predetermined,  
preordained, even though it hasn't happened yet. 
That's what's called the clockwork universe,  
where everything is ticking by mechanistically 
and everything. Causes lead to effects,  
and if we were powerful enough, we could work out 
what those effects would be. We could be able,  
we could predict the future. In reality, we can't 
predict the future for a number of reasons. But  
in Newton's clockwork universe, even though that 
future is preordained, it's destined to be, it  
still doesn't exist. And so, we can still imagine 
that we have free will, free agency. You know,  
maybe you look back after something has happened, 
you say, well, it was ever thus that was ever  
going to be the way it has, because the universe 
has evolved deterministically. But when it comes  
to the block universe and eternalism, that future, 
it's not that that future has yet to unfold,  
it's already there waiting for us. Somehow 
that is a more stark description of determinism  
and a stronger assault on free will. What's the 
point of thinking that I'm making free choices  
if that future is already out there? Now, of 
course, what saves us is that we are embedded  
within the universe, within the block universe. If 
you could pull yourself outside of space-time, the  
so-called God-Zai view, you could see all times 
mapped out. You could see exactly past, present,  
and future all equally real. But we don't have 
that privilege, vantage point. Embedded within  
the universe and even in a fully deterministic 
universe, the fact is we can never predict what  
is going to happen in advance. We are unable to 
predict this. So you may refer to that as just the  
illusion of free will, but for me, I think that's 
good enough. So I subscribe to a philosophical  
view called compatibilism, which says that, 
yes, I have free will even though I live in a  
deterministic universe. And the reason I say that 
is because even if the future is preordained and  
set out in the block universe in this eternalist 
picture, I'm never able to predict it in advance.  
So I'm thinking of making that I'm making free 
choices, and that's good enough. Of course,  
eternalism, the idea that all times past, present, 
and future all coexist, according to relativity,  
isn't the only option available. Philosophers 
have also argued that maybe an alternative idea  
is what's called presentism, which is that only 
the present moment exists, or past presentism,  
the past and the present exist, or the growing 
universe model where the past and present exist  
but slowly gobble up the future. There's something 
called the spotlight theory, the idea that it's a  
light shining on one moment that's changing along 
the time axis. But the problem with all these  
alternative theories to eternalism, presentism, 
past presentism, and so on, is that they come  
into conflict with all our current attempts 
at coming up with a theory of quantum gravity,  
whether one subscribes to things like 
string theory or loop quantum gravity,  
all these mathematical ideas that unify quantum 
mechanics of relativity all seem to require the  
eternalist picture. It's the one that makes 
most sense when we're trying to combine quantum  
mechanics and relativity to solve this problem, 
the first problem of physical time. And of course,  
most importantly here is that the eternalist 
picture says there is nothing special about  
the present moment. There's nothing special 
about now. We experience now subjectively and  
think it's special, dividing the past from the 
future, but in physics there's nothing special  
about this moment. It's just a point on the 
time axis in four-dimensional spacetime. Even  
in Einstein's special theory of relativity, 
we can appreciate the concept of a now, an  
absolute universal present moment simply doesn't 
make sense. One can imagine two events. I can  
experience two events that to me seem to have 
happened at the same time. They're simultaneous  
events. Now, if I know they took place at an 
equal distance from me, then even though it's  
taken some fraction of a second for the light from 
those two events, the signal to reach my eyes,  
I can work back with and say, "Well, if I saw them 
happening at the same time, going back, they must  
have actually like flashes of light. Those flashes 
of light will have happened simultaneously because  
I'm halfway between them and I saw them happen at 
the same time." But for another observer moving  
past me at close to light speed, they will not 
look as though they've happened at the same time.  
This is something that generations of physics 
students have to learn, something called the  
relativity of simultaneity, which very clearly 
shows that what one observer regards as now,  
as two events happening at some moment in time 
that they say is happened now, another observer  
will disagree. So, no one event happened before 
the other. In fact, we can even imagine a scenario  
where I see one event happening, let's call 
it event A, happening just before event B. For  
another observer moving very fast relative to me, 
they may see event B happening before event A. So,  
where is now, if our past and future are mixed up? 
Now, of course, what we're forbidden from doing is  
something called the violation of causality. So, 
if event A was the cause of event B, then no one  
can see B happening before A. You know, if event 
A is me shooting a gun and event B is someone  
being shot and falling down, you're not going 
to see them being shot before I fired the gun,  
because you can imagine them then stopping me from 
firing the gun, even though they've already been  
shot. I know that's a rather violent example. I 
don't tend to use violent examples in physics,  
but there we go. I can't illustrate it, but the 
fact is if one event can affect the other, then  
there is an order that you can't mess with. Cause 
has to come before effect. But if those two events  
are far enough apart and close enough in time such 
that there's not enough time for a light signal to  
transfer between them, then we say they are not 
causally connected. And in physics, we talk about  
them as being space-like separated. So in that 
case, events A and B can have their order fuzzy.  
Someone can see A before B, someone else can see 
B before A. And once you realize this, you realize  
you cannot pinpoint a universal present moment 
if we can switch past and future around. So that  
present moment becomes rather fuzzy according to 
relativity theory. And while in relativity theory,  
we clearly see there's a fuzziness about what 
we would refer to as a universal now. No such  
thing exists in relativity. Even in manifest 
time, our psychological or experienced time,  
there's a fuzziness about what it means to say 
now. Apart from the fact that it's ever-changing,  
you pinpoint a moment in time as now, but it's 
already in the past by the time you've said it.  
But the notion that now is a moment is also really 
not something that we see in psychological time.  
It's an extended present. It has a thickness 
to it. To begin with, when an event happens,  
of course in relativity, I said an event, events 
A and B happen, and there's a certain finite time  
for the light to reach my eyes from the events. 
There's a further time for that light to enter my  
eyes, travel to my brain, be processed, and for me 
to be conscious of that event has taken place. So  
there's what's called perceptual latency, a delay 
between an event happening and us being conscious  
of it. And that can be anything from up to a third 
or more of a second later. So when is it that we  
should regard something as happening? When it's 
happened or when we're conscious of it? There's  
already that fuzziness there. But let's say that's 
the moment that something happens. What about when  
does the now start for us? Well again, it's rather 
fuzzy. An example is how we appreciate a piece of  
music. We don't just hear one note at a time 
that replaces the previous note because that's  
gone and it's in our past. No, we experience 
music as a continuum. And the way we do this  
is through what's called episodic memories. We 
are storing memories of events in our brain that  
are then stitched together in a continuum so that 
it's not just the present moment note that we are  
conscious of. We're conscious of some finite time 
in the past. We've together to give us the music  
that we appreciate. Added to that the fact that we 
anticipate where the music is going in the future,  
even though we haven't heard it yet. And so what 
we regard as the present now is really an extended  
period of time that relies on past events that 
are still stored in our memory that we have access  
to. Even though we are only ever accessing any 
moment in the past in the present moment. It's  
still there and it gives us this sense that we're 
experiencing a flow of time or a finite duration  
of a present moment. One if there's nothing 
special about now, about the present moment, we  
still have to admit that it divides up the future 
from the past. So what is it that's different  
between the past and the future? Certainly, it's 
almost tautological to say the past comes before  
the future. That's what the word before means. 
But there's this asymmetry. They are different,  
certainly in the way we perceive them. And the 
flow, even though we might decide that the flow  
of time is an illusion, there's certainly a 
directionality to time pointing from the past  
to the future. Many physicists will argue this 
is due to the error of time, that the difference  
between the past and the future is due to what's 
called the error of time. But you don't need an  
arrow to talk about what's different between them. 
Any more than you need an arrow to point from the  
shallow end of a swimming pool to the deep end to 
tell you there's a difference between the shallow  
end of the deep end. They are just different. 
Nevertheless, we experience time moving only  
in one direction. Time is irreversible. Now, is 
that irreversibility just something again that  
we can regard as an illusion in an eternalist 
picture? Or is there really an arrow of time?  
Well, the third area of physics that gives us a 
direction to time really stems from 19th century  
work of people like Ludwig Boltzmann and the laws 
of thermodynamics. One of the most famous ideas  
in physics is the second law of thermodynamics. 
It's always amusing that it doesn't even make it  
to the top of the list of laws of thermodynamics. 
It's only number two. And yet, it is regarded as  
almost sacred in how true it must be. Even 
Einstein said if you can't reconcile time  
as a coordinate in quantum mechanics and time 
as a dimension in relativity theory and time  
as a direction or arrow in thermodynamics, then 
it's the arrow of thermodynamics that's the one  
that's going to survive. The other two may have 
to go if we want to come up with some theory that  
unifies all these concepts. So where does this 
arrow of time come from? Is it real or not? Now,  
the reason why physicists hesitate with this is 
that nowhere else other than in thermodynamics is  
there this notion that time has a directionality? 
All our fundamental equations of physics are time  
symmetric. We say they're time reversal and 
variant. If you change the sign of the symbol  
time, the coordinate time in the equations, if 
you make t minus t, and more often than not,  
you have to make a few other tweaks as well, which 
we don't need to go into, then you realize that  
the system that this equation describes evolves 
perfectly well in the opposite direction. So  
time can move forwards or backwards, and these 
equations would describe physical reality very  
sensibly. Time is symmetric according to the laws 
of physics, and yet we see irreversibility all  
around us. I get older. All these walls roll down 
hills. Batteries run out of charge. Things decay,  
get older. The universe gets bigger. Wherever you 
look, you see things happening in one direction of  
time, but not in another. And this is the fourth 
problem of time, the second problem of physical  
time, namely, where does the directionality of 
time come from if all our fundamental equations  
of physics are symmetric in time? When we talk 
about the arrow of time, the direction of time,  
pointing from past to future, we have to explain 
the concept of entropy. Now, entropy is not a  
vague concept. It's just a very versatile concept 
because it can mean very many different things.  
The simplest way of describing entropy is to 
say that it's what follows from thermodynamics  
and statistical mechanics, that things move 
from higher-ordered states to less-ordered  
states. Disorder increases. A box of gas, 
where all the molecules of the gas are all  
squashed together in one corner of the box, we 
say that has high order. It's neat and tidy,  
and it's a very special state. But as the 
molecules diffuse and fill up the box, evenly,  
entropy increases. So there are many ways of 
describing entropy, but basically we say entropy  
always either stays the same or increases in an 
isolated system. This is what the second law of  
thermodynamics tells us. But what happens when 
entropy has reached a maximum? In a box of gas,  
what happens when all those molecules of gas have 
spread out evenly? Now, if you were to zoom in and  
look at the detailed motion of the molecules, 
you'll see them all jiggling about. But if you  
were to film them jiggling about and then run 
the film backwards, you wouldn't be able to tell  
the difference. Because at what's called thermal 
equilibrium, things look exactly the same forwards  
and backwards in time. I've had this argument with 
other physicists who will say the hour of time  
disappears at thermal equilibrium. Well, sure, it 
disappears in the sense that we cannot perceive a  
direction to time. We can't tell the difference 
between a movie running forwards and backwards,  
but that doesn't mean that time has ceased to go 
on. Of course, if you could extract yourself from  
outside of this box, then you will see entropy 
continue to exist outside. But what if the whole  
universe reaches thermal equilibrium? In some 
distant future, the heat death of the universe,  
where everything is dispersed, all matter 
has fallen to black holes and black holes  
have evaporated out and everything is just 
thermal radiation or sort of moving apart as  
the universe expands. At thermal equilibrium, 
does time cease to exist? Well, I would argue  
no. Just because you can't perceive a direction to 
time doesn't mean that it's not going by. Indeed,  
if the universe continues to expand forever, 
as our current theories would suggest, then  
time is pointing in the direction of expansion 
of space, because mological arrow, so-called,  
of time. And in any case, we would never be able 
to check whether there's time going on or not,  
because at thermal equilibrium, we can't exist. 
We are special states, that that's what defines  
life. We are low entropy constructs that have 
some complexity. At thermal equilibrium, we have  
to be part of this thermal spread, even spread of 
everything in the universe. Now, of course, what's  
interesting is that even at thermal equilibrium, 
maybe entropy can fluctuate, maybe just randomly,  
in the same way that you can shuffle a pack of 
cards. And when it's fully shuffled, you really  
can't tell whether it's any more shuffled or less 
shuffled, but maybe now and again, just through  
chance, very unlikely, but just through chance, 
you may shuffle it and retrieve some order. You'll  
get a running flush as a poker player would say. 
You know, some you get cards that are ordered just  
through sheer chance. What happens in a universe 
at thermal equilibrium, where just through sheer  
chance, you suddenly get temporary isolated 
bits of the universe that have lower entropy,  
that have moved away from equilibrium? 
This is something called Boltzmann-Brains,  
the idea that there is a non-zero, you know, 
highly unlikely, a non-zero chance that's out  
of thermal equilibrium at maximum entropy, some 
lower entropy state can appear temporarily and  
then disappear again. So things can still happen 
at thermal equilibrium, but certainly time,  
just because we can't perceive which direction is 
going, doesn't mean it isn't continuing to evolve.  
One area I've been interested in in recent 
years is what's called open systems or more  
specifically open quantum systems. So the idea 
that the dynamical equations of physics that we  
know and love really almost all apply to what are 
called isolated systems, systems that are isolated  
from their surroundings. But we know that nothing 
is completely isolated from its surroundings.  
There's this wonderful example of molecules of 
gas in a box that are bouncing around, and the  
way they evolve in time after multiple collisions 
depends on so many factors. I mean, this has  
origins things like the butterfly effect, how the 
flapping of the wings of a butterfly on one side  
of the world would eventually lead to a storm 
on the other side of the world. So the actual  
initial conditions can grow. Well, the presence or 
not of a single electron on the other side of the  
visible universe will affect how these molecules, 
its gravitational effect, will change the dynamics  
of these molecules after about the 50th collision, 
the calculation that has been done. Nothing can be  
entirely isolated from its surroundings. What this 
means when it comes to reconciling the arrow of  
time with time-symmetric equations is that it's 
the time-symmetric equations that have to give  
way. Now, normally physicists look at it the other 
way around, they say, "Look, you know, how does a  
directionality to time emerge from time-symmetric 
laws of physics?" Well, I'll put it the other way.  
Time-symmetric laws of physics are idealizations 
that only apply to truly isolated systems. There  
is only one truly isolated system, and that's the 
entire universe. Everything within the universe  
ultimately eventually interacts somehow with 
its surroundings, and that interaction with its  
surroundings kills any notion of time-symmetry. 
It brings in a directionality to time,  
and down at the quantum level, this really has 
a profound consequence, because a quantum system  
not only is disturbed by its surroundings, but 
it becomes entangled with its surroundings. That  
is a truly irreversible process. Well, 
rather, when it becomes sufficiently  
entangled with its surroundings, that it leads 
to what's called decoherence. The quantumness  
dissipates into the environment. You cannot 
retrieve it. So, decoherence is regarded as  
the one truly irreversible process in nature. But 
since it's prevalent everywhere in the universe,  
decoherence is always taking place, that brings in 
a directionality to time that is fundamental. So,  
when people argue or ask, where does an hour 
of time come from when you have time-symmetric  
equations, while the hour of time is already 
there? I would argue that the hour of time is  
baked into reality. It's baked into the universe, 
fundamentally, due to quantum entanglement and  
quantum decoherence, increasing all the time. 
So, just as entropy increases, we can describe  
entanglement increasing. We can even define 
something we've tried to do in recent years,  
define the entanglement entropy, not the 
thermodynamic entropy of increasing disorder,  
the melting of ice cubes in a glass 
of water, the shuffling of the cards,  
the dissipation of air molecules in a box, the 
spreading of air molecules in a box. That's  
all thermodynamic entropy. There's also what we 
might regard as entanglement entropy. Increasing  
entanglement of a system with its surroundings is 
inevitable, and it gives us a direction to time.  
And the time-symmetric equations that we know and 
love are simply idealizations in the limit when  
we can ignore the surroundings of the system we're 
interested in. So, if I believe that the direction  
the hour of time is baked into reality, well, 
you can't have a direction of time without time  
itself. It's the smile of the Cheshire cat. 
In this case, you need the Cheshire cat. So,  
if direction of time is real, then I would argue 
that time itself is real. Whether it's emergent  
from something more fundamental as another matter, 
but we don't live in a timeless universe in which  
time is an illusion. Time really is there, and 
it really has a direction. Now, if time is real,  
and if time has a direction from past to future, 
an arrow, then I guess the next question will be,  
does the arrow have a beginning and does it 
have an end? Did time start at some point,  
and will it end at some point? So, let's address 
the idea of time having a beginning. Well,  
according to general relativity, time began 
at the Big Bang. That was the earliest moment.  
And very often people will say, well, how do 
you know there may be a time before that? Well,  
I mean, basic general relativity, the answer 
is that what do you mean by before? You know,  
there has to have been a time before the Big Bang 
to embed the word before in. It's a bit like I  
tell you to walk to the South Pole, and when 
you get to the South Pole, keep heading south.  
It's meaningless. Once you're at the South Pole, 
every step you take will take you back north  
again. That's the furthest south you can go. There 
is no point on the surface of the Earth furthest  
south in the South Pole. There's no point in 
time earlier than the first moment when time was  
created, along with space and matter and energy 
at the Big Bang. In fact, people like Stephen  
Hawking have even come up with ideas that suggest 
that there's a smoothness to space and time that,  
as you get closer and closer to the Big Bang, 
time loses its meaning. It becomes like another  
dimension of space. And so, in that sense, time 
does have a beginning. It's the moment of the  
Big Bang. Of course, that would be really boring 
if people hadn't come up with other suggestions,  
which of course they have speculative ideas. For 
example, the notion that the Big Bang was simply  
the moment of birth of our universe. What if our 
universe is simply a bubble within a much larger  
multiverse, which is constantly undergoing what's 
called eternal inflation, expanding, and every now  
and again, bubbles appear in this, what's called 
the inflaton field. Our universe is one bubble,  
our Big Bang was the first moment of our universe, 
but time existed before it. There's some sort of  
time of the multiverse that is distinct from the 
time that the Big Bang was distinct from the time  
that we experience in our universe. That's a 
possibility that time really does stretch back  
to infinity. There are other notions that suggest 
that maybe the Big Bang was the beginning of our  
universe, but there's a mirror universe heading 
in the opposite direction. So, time for us moves  
forward. There's a reflection of our universe 
moving in the opposite direction. If there's any  
intelligent life in that universe, they would 
regard their time as moving forward, and our  
universe as time is moving backwards, even though 
we could never ever have access to each other's  
universes. Then there are notions like time being 
cyclic. The Big Bang will evolve forward in time,  
and it will the universe will re-collapse again in 
a big crunch, which would form another generation,  
another universe. And again, this suggests 
that time, the universe has been constantly  
being created and destroyed again and again again 
for all eternity. So again, the Big Bang may not  
have been the first moment in time. Of course, 
one should also say that once you bring quantum  
mechanics into the picture, then that notion 
of a distinct moment, the beginning of time,  
what's called a singularity in space-time, that 
gets fuzzy. Quantum mechanics brings in fuzziness.  
It brings in uncertainty, suggesting just like 
relativity brings in a fuzziness in what we call  
now, because of the relativity of simultaneity. 
Quantum mechanics brings in a fuzziness to that  
earliest moment of the creation of space and time. 
These are theoretical speculations. One may even  
argue as to whether they are real scientific 
theories, because we don't yet know how we might  
test them. What observations can we make that 
would give us evidence that those theories are  
correct? Maybe sometime the future would be able 
to tell that. But for the moment, most physicists,  
cosmologists would argue that the Big Bang was the 
beginning of time and leave it at that. Of course,  
the other question then is does time have an end? 
Does that arrow continue into infinity or does  
time come to an end? And again, there are various 
options. So one option indeed is that one day the  
universe will reach a point of maximum expansion 
and then re-collapse in on itself into a big  
crunch, and that would be then the end of time. 
Maybe that big crunch then becomes a Big Bang for  
the next generation universe in which time becomes 
cyclic. But what we think now is that the universe  
will continue to expand forever. Ending in what's 
called the heat death. And this will be billions,  
trillions of years into the future. But it would 
suggest that time would carry on forever. Now,  
the reason for that is because just over a quarter 
of a century ago, astronomers discovered that what  
we thought should be happening, which is that 
space is slowing down in its expansion because  
gravity of all the matter and energy in the 
universe should be putting the brakes on,  
no one anticipated that it would start expanding 
at an ever faster rate. Now, that was what was  
discovered in 1998 when astronomers looked at 
the rate of expansion by looking at very distant  
galaxies and working backwards to figure out that 
actually the universe is getting bigger now at a  
faster rate than it was in the past. This suggests 
that it will never re-collapse in on itself. It  
will just carry on expanding forever. And we're 
left with this, well, my argue, bleak scenario.  
Although I never know why, why is it a bleaker 
scenario for the heat death of the universe?  
Why is that bleaker than the big crunch, which 
is quite catastrophic in my view? But the heat  
death of the universe will be the ultimate fate 
of our universe. When all the stars stop shining,  
they convert all their nuclear fuel and use it 
all up and they die. Some will collapse into black  
holes. Matter will gradually get colder. Black 
holes will evaporate according to Stephen Hawking,  
what's called Hawking radiation. Just giving 
out thermal radiation and the black holes  
will then shrink and disappear. Ultimately, the 
universe will just end up emptier and emptier,  
just full of thermal radiation that's getting 
colder and colder and colder. Now, of course, this  
will be a universe in thermal equilibrium, which 
comes back to this other idea that, well, will  
time cease to exist at thermal equilibrium? Well, 
no. If a Boltzmann brain were to suddenly appear  
out of the fluctuation of thermal equilibrium and 
that Boltzmann brain could think and just through  
sheer chance, it evolved some way of seeing the 
universe around it, it will see the rest of the  
universe in thermal equilibrium and it wouldn't 
be able to discern the directionality at the time.  
But time would still exist. The universe, if it's 
going to expand forever, will continue to expand  
and there will be a directionality at the time in 
the direction of the expansion of the universe,  
the further cooling down of the radiation 
that's left in the universe. So, in that sense,  
time would go on forever. It would be a very 
boring universe. Nothing would happen. But just  
because nothing is happening doesn't mean 
there isn't time continuing because that  
would be defined by the continuing expansion of 
space. Now, of course, there is a third scenario,  
which is that the expansion of space, which we now 
understand is due to what's called dark energy,  
the nature of which we're still trying 
to determine for sure. Dark energy is  
making the universe expand ever more quickly. 
It's winning the battle against gravity. So,  
gravity of all the stuff in the universe are 
trying to slow the stretching of space. Dark  
energy is making space stretch and expand ever 
more quickly. We still don't know the details of  
dark energy, and it may be that this is something 
with an influence that will grow over time. So,  
the expansion will get ever quicker and become 
evident at ever smaller scales, ending up with  
what's called the big rip in which it's not just 
the space between galaxy clusters, the emptiness  
of space that's stretching, but even the space 
within galaxies, within stars, within planets,  
within atoms, ultimately will start to spread and 
increase and rip the universe apart. None of this  
we need worry about. There's no existential threat 
to us. We should be much more worried about when  
our sun finishes stop shining, or indeed more 
worried about looking after our own planet in  
the near future, not worrying about what's going 
to happen to the universe trillions of years into  
the future. But all those options are open. My bet 
would be then, I guess, and this is not the way  
physicists should argue, just I have a feeling 
or opinion, but my view is that the universe  
did have a beginning, but won't have an end. It's 
not going forever. Which, when I think about it,  
I'll realise also it's probably not that 
sensible. Maybe if it doesn't have an end,  
it shouldn't have a beginning either. Maybe time 
is eternal in both directions. There we go. This  
is where we shrug and turn to the philosophers to 
help us out. Okay, so if you've come with me this  
far, and we've been through some heavy stuff, 
talking about arrows of time and unifying the  
laws of physics and so on, maybe it's time for 
some fun, a little bit of dessert, a question  
I'm often asked when it comes to the nature 
of time is whether we can travel through time.  
After all, if you think about time, according to 
Einstein, as part of four-dimensional space-time,  
then I can move through space. I can exist at this 
point in space or that point in space. Now, I can  
come back to this point and I can travel around. 
How is it? Why is it that we can't do the same  
with time? Why can't we move up and down the time 
axis? Why are we stuck in extra-able moving along  
the time axis when all times supposedly are there 
and exist? Well, of course, time isn't exactly  
like another dimensional space. It is different. 
It is special. Einstein's theories of relativity  
may not be the last word on whether or not we can 
travel through time, but they're the best we have  
at the moment, and they do tell us something about 
the possibility of time travel. Of course, we've  
all watched many movies and TV shows involving 
time travel. I don't want to go on record after  
criticizing the really bad time travel movies, a 
hot tub time machine, but they're also some really  
intelligent ones. But Real Physics says when 
we talk about time travel, we have to make a  
distinction between the possibility of time travel 
into the future and time travel back into the  
past. It turns out one is easier than the other. 
Time travel into the future is easy, and I don't  
just mean if I sit still tomorrow will eventually 
arrive. I have time travel into tomorrow. Now,  
what I mean by time travel into the future is 
getting there before everyone else. And Relativity  
Theory says this is possible by slowing time down. 
So if I were to head off in a rocket at close to  
the speed of light and zip around the galaxy for, 
I don't know, a week, when I come back to Earth,  
by virtue of traveling very fast, but also 
one should say because I'm accelerating and  
changing direction and therefore acceleration, 
being equivalent to gravity means my time is  
running slower. Essentially, less time will have 
elapsed for me when I return to Earth than has  
gone by on Earth without me. So I may have only 
experienced a few weeks of time travel, but I  
may return back to Earth years in the future. In a 
sense, it's not real time travel because it's not  
that the future was already there waiting for me. 
I've just sort of fast-forwarded to the future.  
I've moved along a different timeline, a different 
world line through space time, and arrived at the  
future with less time having gone by for me than 
for everyone else. But as far as I'm concerned,  
I could arrive in the future arbitrarily in the 
distant future, depending on how closely I got to  
the speed of light or how strong a gravitational 
field I felt. So in the film Interstellar,  
Matthew McConaughey's character is an astronaut. 
They land on this water planet that's in orbit  
around a supermassive black hole. That gravity 
is slowing time so much. The astronauts in the  
movie know that for every hour they spend on 
that planet, seven years ago, by on Earth.  
And sure enough, Matthew McConaughey's character 
has time travelled in the future, having not aged  
that much. He's not been away that long, but his 
young daughter is now an old lady. Whether or not  
you regard that as real time travel is up to you. 
Much more interesting, of course, is where we can  
time travel back into the past. And again, general 
relativity doesn't rule this out. Theoretically,  
we can think of such notions of what are called 
closed time-like curves, which will be the  
equivalent of riding on a roller coaster and doing 
a loop-the-loop. As you're travelling along it,  
your time is unfolding normally. But you'd loop 
back in time, you could arrive back at the point  
in space that you were in. In space that you left, 
but at an earlier moment in time. You can travel  
back in time that way. The problem, of course, 
is that this leads to all sorts of paradoxes.  
So while general relativity strictly doesn't rule 
out time travel into the past, it leads to all  
sorts of conundrums which we find rather difficult 
to get over, such as the famous grandfather  
paradox. You go back into the past and you're 
not very nice. You kill your grandfather before  
he's met your mother, your grandmother. They never 
meet, they never marry, your mother's never born,  
therefore you're never born. And if you're never 
born, who killed your grandfather? It wasn't you,  
you have the perfect alibi, you didn't exist. 
So he doesn't get killed. I've always found that  
rather strange. Why would you skip a generation? 
Why not just go back and murder your own mother?  
Not very nice, I know. Big, big, big, even 
bleaker. Go back and meet your younger self. And  
then, you know, and kill your younger self. So if 
you never grew up to be a time-traveling murderer,  
then you don't get killed. So you do grew up to 
be a time-traveling murderer and so on. So there  
are many such paradoxes that would suggest that 
time-traveling to the past is impossible. However,  
we don't yet know where the loopholes are in 
our laws of physics that would rule them out.  
Typically, what many might say is that the only 
way out of this is to subscribe to potentially  
an even more fantastical notion, which is that we 
live in multiple realities. So there are parallel  
realities. Certainly there are areas of physics 
that would suggest this is true. In cosmology,  
there's the idea of the cosmological multiverse 
bubble universes that have their own big bang,  
you know, that are formed. In the quantum 
world, one of the popular ways of explaining  
the weirdness of the quantum world is to subscribe 
to what's called the many worlds interpretation.  
That every time anywhere in the universe down 
at the quantum level, something's faced with  
a choice, the universe branches into multiple 
options, famously, shroading as cat in the box  
that's dead and alive at the same time. And 
you open the box to make up its mind because  
it's made of atoms and atoms can exist in multiple 
states. While in the many worlds interpretation,  
there's a you that opens the box to find an alive 
cat and there's a you that opens the box to find  
a dead cat. So these parallel universes exist. 
This helps us if we're trying to insist on the  
possibility of time-traveling to the past. The 
murdering time traveler can go back in time,  
but in doing so, they inevitably slip into a 
parallel reality. In that reality, they can  
meet and indeed murder their younger self. All 
that happens is that they will never then grow  
up in that universe, but the murderer was born 
and was never murdered in their own universe. So  
you can have multiple realities. And again, many 
science fiction writers have written about this,  
but do we have evidence of parallel realities? 
Well, no more than we have evidence that time  
travel into the past is possible. One way many 
commentators have tried to support the notion  
that time travel into the past is possible, and 
to rule out paradox, is the so-called Novikov  
self-consistency principle. The idea that if you 
were to travel into the past, then you can alter,  
you can interact with the past, you can alter 
things, but you can only make them turn out  
the way they have turned out. So the example I 
used many years ago when I was explaining this  
was the notion that we know 66 million years 
ago, an asteroid hit the earth and wiped out  
the dinosaurs, and that allowed mammals to evolve 
and humans to evolve from them. Had the asteroid  
not hit the earth, maybe dinosaurs will still be 
around today and we wouldn't exist. Well, what if  
someone in the future invents a time machine and 
takes some nuclear weapon back in the time machine  
66 million years in order to destroy the asteroid 
so that it doesn't hit the earth? But when he gets  
back there, he sees an asteroid actually as 
much bigger than the one he recalls, and he  
does his best and fires his nuclear missile at 
it, fragments it, but a smaller fragment remains  
that hits the earth, wipes out the dinosaurs. 
And so had he not travelled back in time,  
something else would have maybe, you know, that he 
would have missed the earth entirely. So the fact  
that he travelled back in time caused the past to 
evolve the way it has into the future. There are  
problems with this, of course, and people argue 
it gets rid of paradox. It doesn't because what  
if he decides not to go back? What if he gets 
back to the past and sees that and thinks, "Oh,  
wow, my nuclear missile isn't going to be able to 
destroy this, I won't even bother?" You know, what  
if you go back? One example is a time travelling 
scientist, he gets up with one day and finds a  
manual for how to build a time machine in his 
lab. He uses that manual to build a time machine,  
and finally when it's built, he gets in the time 
machine, takes the manual with him, travels back  
in time and leaves it in the lab for his younger 
self to find. All perfectly self-consistent,  
but the problem is, A, where did that manual come 
from in the first place? This is information,  
this is knowledge that seems to have been caught 
in a time loop, ran around forever. And secondly,  
what if he decides when he builds the time machine 
not to take, not to go back in time or not to take  
the manual? He has to do it because that's how 
he found it. So there's a real assault on free  
will here. We are forced to do something because 
the future determines the past. One way that many  
scientists have got around the idea of the laws of 
physics allowing time travel into the past is to  
simply say that it's forbidden. For some reason. 
Stephen Hawking famously said, "If time travel  
into the past is possible, where are all the time 
travels from the future? Surely they should be  
among us today?" Well, Stephen Hawking was had his 
tongue firmly in cheek when he said this because  
he knew the answer. Of course, it may be that 
no time travelers today simply because, well,  
maybe there are, and they're just keeping a low 
profile. Maybe there aren't because no one wants  
to come back to 2025. They're waiting for us to 
sort out the planet properly and solve the climate  
crisis and so on before they organize package 
tours back into the past. Or it simply could be  
the most sensible answer is that there are no time 
travelers from the future among us today because  
we haven't built a time machine yet. If you build 
a time machine, the earliest moment you can use it  
to travel back to is the moment you turned it on. 
Because that's the moment you hook up that moment  
in time and then into the future you can, at any 
moment, you can go back to that moment. But you  
can never go back before the moment because there 
wasn't a time machine that existed back then. Of  
course, for now, the idea of time travel into the 
future in the past is, makes for great stories  
and great movies. But much of science and the 
technology that we've developed from science today  
would appear like magic to someone a thousand 
years ago or even a hundred years ago. So to what  
extent might we know so much more about the laws 
of nature, a hundred or a thousand years from now,  
and look back to 2025 and say, wow, weren't we 
naive in thinking that's not possible or that's  
silly? Maybe in a thousand years from now we've 
figured out how to create a wormhole in space  
that can be used as a time machine. Who knows? One 
thing is for sure we should never be so arrogant  
in thinking that we already have all the answers. 
We know a lot about the universe and a lot of what  
we know we don't think is going to be overthrown 
for very good reasons, but we don't know  
everything. So who knows what we might discover in 
the distant future? Want to support the channel?  
Join the Big Think Members community where you 
get access to videos early, ad-free. [Music]