So if you are feeling stressed today, I have three quick tips to get you through your day. The first step is the near and the far. In order to do this, go ahead and take your finger and pointing it up to the sky, bring it all the way to your nose and try to focus on it. As you slowly pull that finger away, even though it looks like two, you want to continue slowly moving that away from your face until it's one. and then go ahead and bring that finger back towards your nose, and it's going to get kind of wibbly wobbly, but that's okay because as we are trying to focus on that, we are using the power of convergence and divergence to help calm the amygdala, that fear center in our brain. Next one is pinch the valley. So in pinch the valley we are going to be accessing and activating our Vegas nerve to help calm down that fear center. I'm gonna make an L with my left hand with my thumb and forefinger I'm gonna take my right hand and make some pincers with my thumb and forefinger And I'm gonna just massage the in between meaty bit in between that thumb and forefinger. Now you don't need to dig in and leave a bruise, but adding some good pressure and this is something that you can do anywhere anytime. Then once you're done on that hand you can switch it up to the other hand. This is one of my absolute favorites because I can do it under the table, I can do it while driving or standing in line somewhere. And the vagus nerve, which is going to be the longest cranial nerve in the body, that is going to have a role in our fight or flight part of our nervous system. So when that vagus nerve is activated, that is signaling to our brain and our body that we can return to a sense of calm because all is safe. And last but not least is going to be tapping into courage. I'm going to take my two index fingers and just start right between the eyebrows and with some gentle pressure, I'm going to draw hearts starting at that forehead piece and moving around my eyes down under my cheekbones and to my chin. And then if you're feeling crazy, jumping over your throat and tapping your way towards your shoulders. Now you can do this many times as you are trying to get a little bit of extra courage before that meeting as you're hiding in the bathroom. Or maybe you're in the car trying to navigate through some stressful traffic. So the next time that you're feeling stressed, try one of these and come back, let us know in the comments if it worked for you.