I haven't seen my wife for 10 years. When we worked in the CCTV, she was upstairs. When we went downstairs, she pushed the door in and pulled the chair. We sat face to face and chatted for a while. Now we are more than 10,000 kilometers away from the high wall. So we haven't been able to meet for many years. But it's pretty good now. Someone transferred my YouTube program to him in China. After he commented, he asked someone to send it to his Weibo account. He used this method to talk to me about business. 最近他们给我推了几个拆镜的在油管上的内容我觉得做的怎么样就是说他是不是到位了这个可以上去我见到这个拆镜我也会跟他上去但是我非常欣赏他这种态度 对我特别欣赏他的这种态度因为我知道这个柴庆这个处的环境比我好他他他现在环境比我自由我出不去吗是吧他比我自由他完全可以一惊一乍的是吧把各种事弄得像爆炸性新闻似的他完全可以做的一惊一乍的 但是他没有我现在我觉得他身上还保存着原来他在这个评论处啊在看见在这个新闻调查就是做职业记者的时候那那种职业态度他还保留着职业记者这四个字从小崔嘴里说出来是很有分量的这上是年前他跟陈茂对我的一个期待 陈萌是我们在电视台的战友也是好哥们儿我们一起当过这个节目的制片人他是生活空间我是实话实说在2008年的时候他去世了他去世了他去世了他去世了他去世了他去世了 可能柴靖可能这个因为在做节目嘛跟陈芒直接打交道他可能讲的会更多在结尾的时候他特意嘱咐大家转告我说让柴靖也谈谈陈芒我当年做新闻记者就是因为陈芒和翠永哥因为2000年秋天的时候陈芒来招我去东方时空当新闻主持人我说体制里的活我干不了他也没劝我他说那你到我们年会来玩一玩吧 那是2001年2月5号我是在那个年会上看到了《宠月》当时播放的这个片子叫《分家在十月》 (The story of the Chinese TV station "The New World" and the "The Great Wall of China") 面目全非革命的潜力是害人的评论部的兄弟们运动了《分家》在10月说的是当时东方时空跟新闻评论部正在闹分家的内部斗争 片子里头说的这些台领导和明星们都坐在第一排我从来没有在中国任何单位见过这么尖锐的批判和自我批判的力量而且是在这个体制最红的河里头 Time proves that the Eastern time is about to be lost. Jian Zeng, you go to the headquarters now. They might go to steal the equipment. We can't let them take it away. All the equipment is needed. Nonsense. Hurry up! One hard paper is enough! And the fingers are also enough! And the critic also self-proclaimed. In this film, Qiu Yuan is the most popular one. Why do you still want money? To buy Cui You Yuan. He's too hot. Can't you give him less money? 5 million. Can you give him You Yuan?  How about... How about... We add two more to that. No problem. Write the data. You go out first 1/10, 15/10. When did you go to the previous game? August 20th. That's new. How much is it? 20,000. How can it be 20,000? They said they would buy me. Don't say 20,000. I won't go to buy more than 20,000. You think you are the only one who can buy 20,000? I was born in the B&B, and I will never regret it. That's why I chose to go to the B&B. I know that 365 days is just one day. But this day is very important. You have set a standard. The standard of business is also the standard of humanity. The Ministry of Education and Review does not need to mythicize him. He has a lot of fake news reports. He also has some fakes and fake photos. But in fact, these people are very clear in their hearts. What you do is something that someone sees in the eyes and sees clearly. 陈邦多次跟我说他最欣赏的人是秦永炎他们俩身上有种共同动作真实这两个人最早的时候都是新闻记者而且都因为调查性报道得过中国新闻奖这是什么 拉柴火拉柴火做饭呗大条说话 In 1993, when Chen Meng went to the Eastern Space to be a space producer, that program was just teaching everyone how to travel to Australia. But Chen Meng said he would use this program to promote China's news reform. So, the first episode of "Honest and Facts" by Choi Yong-yuan, I remember it was "Wanghai's War" It's a very sharp social topic. Soon after, the program stopped and the show was changed to an out-of-the-box show. But in Cui Yong Yuan's own words, he has always used the words "professional reporter" to define himself. That was his original intention. When I first came to the stage in 2001, Cui Yong Yuan was in the middle of the show. But soon he resigned from the job. We didn't know about it, so we were calm. After many years, Xiao Cui told me that someone had arranged dozens of options for him. He smiled and said, "Xiao Cui, it's not easy to beat your ass." On the day, Xiao Cui sat on the stage in Xidan and smoked for three hours. After that, he resigned from the show, and resigned from the column as a producer. To measure a person's sincerity for his original intention, it may depend on what he is willing to pay for his original intention. When Chen Fang recruited me, he never asked me what university I graduated from, what major I majored in, if I was qualified to speak Mandarin, if I had a good score in the school. He didn't ask me anything. He said he recruited people to look at me as a junior high school student. So he asked me one question. He asked me what I would be concerned about if I came to do news. I am a person who cares about the news. That's the sentence I put into the central news station. That was the result of the reform of the Chinese news system in 1993. Because at that time, before the financial department broadcast, the news station was poor, and it needed advertising and attention. So there was the editor's office. So the editor had the human rights, financial rights and the right to speak. 怎么说他招主持人标准是像崔源这样能够独立思考有自己的价值观 有自己表达的个性但是我那时候二十多岁他说你这个人还早着呢你有众所周知的毛病你只是有一点就是还算不人云亦云那这是一个起点 所以可以培训你但是需要独立思考 不是人云亦亦云这些东西要培养出来一个人从一个大学毕业生培养出来  这张照片就是陈芒训练我的起点20年前我在东方手工的样子那时候我被剪了头发套上西装领导说这个有一点小禁忌单的意思了这表示认可我呢就失去了原来的自我所以内心虚弱但还要强坐镇定你坐在这个主播台上不知道该怎么问又着急写这个结尾的评论害怕审片通不过有时候一写写一百多条 小崔很爱恶我,他跟陈芒私下批评他说柴静主持简直是娇蕊造作,不可忍受小崔对真伪之间是辨别的很清楚的陈芒说你不是因为太感性了你就是恰恰相反,你没有感受他说独立思考最重要的基础是感受这个机器人这三个字是他当时骂我和骂我们所有同事最多的一个词 I asked him, "Who taught you to make films? You just joined the company, and I didn't ask you to do it. Where did you get this request from?" He watched TV every day, and he had already developed a habit of knowing things. So I told him, "You have to be a person to make films here." You are not human now. Don't think I'm cursing you. You are a machine that has been input into a program. You have a program in your head. You judge according to your program. You don't judge by your feelings. So I say that feeling is very important. I used to defend myself, I used to say that you always scold us for being robots. We may be victims of the system. We grew up in the law of propaganda. You are black and white, good and bad, and your values are first-class. So you can't avoid being biased or exaggerating. But if you want to think independently, you have to give up your victim's thinking first. He didn't think that this thing could be created by changing the system. This feeling will be deeper after I go overseas. For example, after "The Stranger" was released, a famous English newspaper came to interview me. He did a very detailed job. For example, he read the documentary, my book, and even "The City Gang". So I asked questions and came back and forth for three days. At the last moment, he told me, "My editor told me that our topic is how the Chinese government is trying to destroy the news industry. We hope you can talk about this topic." I said, "This is not my documentary topic." He said, "I'm sorry, this is not decided by our editor." I said, "Why didn't you tell me earlier?" He said, "It's our regular practice to build trust first." I said, "Then we don't need him." This experience will help me understand what Chen Meng said in the past. He said that you have no desire because you care about the person in the news, you forget your original intention. You care about the choice your editor made during the meeting. So when you treat others as tools, you are a robot. So he never changed me any specific questions or specific comments. He only changed me. Don't use your career as an excuse to violate the basic sincerity of being a person. This may be very early, whether it is a busy or a busy person. They gave me a very important warning and reminder. I remember in 2005, one day when I was working at the front door of the South Campus. I met Xiao Que. He was on the edge of a storm. When he was interviewed, he criticized a certain host of our station. When he interviewed an artist, he was moved and teary in front of the camera. But after he arrived at the backstage, he told Cui Yong Yuan that "This idiot really cooperated today." Later, when I touched him, I asked, "Who is this person you are talking about?" Then Xiao Cui smiled with a smile. He said that this morning, his leader called me over and asked me this question. I told him, "Give me a piece of paper." Then, Qiu Yuan wrote a dozen names on this piece of paper. He said, "Do you still want it?" So he told me not to be a host. So in the future, even if I leave the food industry, whether I'm in a poor family or a stranger, I only have one standard of choice, which is to start from my own feelings. From a question related to pain and oxygen, I have been working on it with a question mark. The second element of the program is logic. What is the problem? What is the reason? What should we do? Whether it is the idea of ​​victory or the air pollution. By using such logical chains to link together, we can pull out a huge structure from deep underground. Because it is in life, waiting for me to discover, instead of me designing it well to find proof. The depth of life is far beyond our expectation. At this point, I agree with Chen Meng. This is why my interviews rarely involve views. For example, Han Xiu, Su Xiaokang, Sun Haiying. Many overseas media want them to talk about political views. I think people who are out there, they must be listening to some words that are not allowed to be said in China. But for me, I am more interested in not the views. but experience. Everyone has their own point of view, but experience is very unique. The more detailed and detailed the person's experience is, the more space he has for the audience to touch and think. On August 24, 1966, you were in Beijing. Was there a chance to stop Mr. Langer? No. 生不如死他有好几个打太极拳的朋友都在湖边上他们看见他看见他坐着 他们也坐着一直到看见他跳进去他们都没有拦他凌辱这种凌辱是他吃不下的他绝对吃不下那您呢?No, never 我跟你爭到底要是你把我殺掉我絕不刺激了斷怎麼打呢旁邊的屋子全部窗戶幹掉我們金牌那旁邊是玻璃窗啊下面鐵皮安的為了防槍彈防咋全部打出來 哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭哭我們一旦經歷了武鬥我們知道嗎一進去背著槍一掃我們全爬地我親你呀傷害了我一生 我承擔後果了我承擔後果就是我流亡了你覺得值得嗎值得我這些年也懂了一個道理苦難才是人生的本質 歡樂 幸福是極其偶然的世界你要懂 要懂了這個你就認識了人生的本身做這些節目的時候我會想起陳芒的話他說 你深入就深刻 深刻是自然然發生在觀眾心中的反應和共鳴 It's like a big tube. I am also one of these lines. You can feel the vibration of the resonance. At the same time, you feel that you are deeply, deeply, deeply, Stabilized. So when I do this show, It's very meaningful to my own soul. 有时候做一个节目 比如说看送命令那个节目可能要看上百万些但是坐在这个电脑桌前的时候这个一睁眼天亮再一抬头天又黑了头顶日升月落浑然不觉然后周围的声音都消失了到最后我记得声音也消失了你跟一个很广大的东西融合在一起就是因为这个起点是你真不知道而且你真想知道 The desire to be known is the starting point of independent thinking. This is the training of Chen Mang. But this kind of training has a huge problem from the beginning. How do you face the control of your thoughts? The review of the review and selection of the topic are very strict. The selection of the topic is five-level, and then the selection of the topic is at least three-level. In this case, the pass rate is very low. [The red face? It's red from the film. Why is it yellow again? The film is closed. I'm going to sleep. Okay.] He's a neighbor. He knows the danger very well. But Chen Bang always treats the creator as his own. He told us that it's his business to broadcast or not. But whether you want to shoot or not is your business. You can't have obstacles in your mind. The best thing to do is to do a new investigation. In the most obvious place in our conference room, there is a wall with a yellow label on it. It means that it can't be broadcast. But he put it there. and gain recognition and respect. This is a standard. Where outsiders cannot see it, you are a standard of professionalism. Xiao Cui said that some of the content of the current audit must be what he wanted to do at that time. This is correct. For example, Zhu Ling, Han Xiu, Ye Qisun, they were all things that I wanted to do, but couldn't do, or couldn't complete. Whether it's a diary, a photo, a pen, or a recording, I put them all in my computer. It's been more than ten years. When I have the opportunity, I will complete it. This is the training for Chen Man Ge. Freedom is that you can't stop in front of obstacles. You have to treat obstacles as a new opportunity for you to know. It's like the idea of Xu Fang Sheng. In fact, I have always encountered the longest silence in my interview. 11 minutes. If I were a reporter from the steel industry, I would probably be fired very soon. And then go back to the leader to report that the other party did not have an interview. But if you take silence as a chance to get to know each other, it's like a big red face. Then, when you ask, when you ask, how to ask, when to stop, when to end. In fact, every moment of time is like investing a small stone on this lake. It will generate a different level of connection and create a moving feeling. So I don't do any comments on this program, nor any editing. It's just original broadcast. This is the biggest freedom provided by the self-media in my opinion. It is to provide information without restrictions. So now, no one cares about his own issues. The court is the one who cares about his own issues. I will say this first. I think he is very restrained. 真的比我想象的要克制的多先提克制这是第一第二我觉得他的那个做法是符合这个职业新闻人的这个要求的 他没有特别感性他也没有过火他也不轻易下结论他尽可能让采访到的一个事件的多方都来表达自己的观点第一件事情多来表达自己的观点怎么做一个调查记者 怎么能站稳脚跟怎么能脑袋不冲动这都没有人管你的时候你想做什么爱做什么就做什么的时候这个时候还能不冲动还能有调查记者那个稳稳稳稳重重这个照顾事实最大程度上的尊重真实还还能有这种这个格调格調、覺悟和理念 I remember the trailer for "The Stranger" was released on YouTube the next morning. When I woke up, my first reaction was that the trailer had disappeared. Because I had been used to this experience for so many years. But when I opened my phone, it was still there. And the probability of it being there is still there. I was sitting on the bed, talking to myself, saying that I am free. The second thought was that the real test is coming. Freedom is a test. This is what the city council told me many years ago. He said, "Don't always complain about others limiting your thoughts. I want to ask you, what are your thoughts?" You are really free now. What do you want to express? I was not convinced when I was in my 20s. I think I can express more. I laugh and scold, and then I become a article. I remember in 2006, I wrote a blog called "Shanghai's Water is Deep". At the end, I wrote the number of Mr. Jiang who retired at that time. This article was written by the masses. So two days later, Mr. Jiang called our president directly. He said, "You little girl, you've brought me and the Black Society together." The next day, the director asked me to have dinner. He said, "Thank goodness he didn't ask his secretary or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to call him, otherwise, the treatment will be upgraded." That's how it went. I wrote it in the national magazine. But in 2007, we still need to do a survey on government-banned building control. I collected news clues in the blog and asked everyone to take pictures, including pictures of leaders and writers. The name of this blog is "You are a citizen, you are a mechanism." This time around, the media reported that certain people are always calling for political crimes, and that it must be solved from the root. During the trial, I was asked to be reviewed. At that time, I said... If your political views are in conflict with the news rules, I will remember that my duty is to express. If you want to avoid any risks, the only way is not to express. I mean, you fired and you can go. After the meeting, Chen Mang came to me. He asked me to talk about his business. I thought you were not a real person. I was about to leave the court, and you still asked me how to play. And you didn't even have a chance to go on the court. He was very particular when he was holding the trial. He didn't even have the right to participate in the meeting. But he still asked me to talk. He said you were recruited by me, and I had to be responsible for you. I said, "It's okay. I can quit. I've done well before I met you." She didn't say anything. Her silence made me think that I hurt her feelings. So I told him, "I won't talk to you anymore." He said, "You are too passionate. You are too passionate about something. You have lost the true meaning of it. It is no longer itself. It has become a part of you that is forcing it." I don't quite understand. I said, "What wrong did I say?" He said that the media is a public platform. When you express yourself like this, you are emphasizing your own ideals, your own feelings, your desire to support the public. You are really better than others. I can't get angry anymore. Then he said, "You think you have a few deep words, right? I heard you read your article again when you were having a meeting. Do you think it's awesome? What else do you have if you take your words away?" He said, "What's really awesome is that you take out a program. The power of the structure of this program, the degree of deepening the theme, to the extent that the people around you can't take away a sentence of your words. Although he didn't convince me in a political way, Chen Mang used his professionalism to convince me. He said that the reporter's nature is not to express, but to serve. Some people think we should write down the words in a deep way We have to force the interviewer to speak a more profound language in our program, a language that is close to the bottom line, called "The Uncanny Counter" This kind of practice will try to achieve the depth of the program. I think the comment is about the truth. So when I was doing this program in the program, I understood the freedom. Not that I can express it freely, but that I can not be restricted when providing information. For example, the program "Take the volunteer to stand up for the people" This question is not only for CCTV, VOA or Taiwan TV, each side has its own position and information choices. I am not one of the news agencies. The disadvantage is that I have very few interview opportunities. But it has an advantage, that is, I am not restricted by my position. 当时中国、美国、台湾加上战斧营当中的战斧多方的决策背后的行为逻辑我可以不用考虑厉害、立场然后只是不考虑信息的准确、可靠把它呈现出来观众会有自己的一个判断所以我看到留言当中有很多人说看完这个节目之后心里面觉得五味杂陈 That's it. Because this is the reality. Reality is not black and white. So Xiao Cui said, "Inquiry reporters must be steady. I understand steady." This is how far the information you provide is. The table is rich. "Sturdy" is the information you provide. "Personal" is high quality. He said, "Deng Xiaobing's show is a Western country." I don't know what the CCTV is like now. I guess he doesn't know either. But the CCTV we discussed is the CCTV of the ideal public radio station that we used to fight for. There should be no low-quality ban on this platform, but there are high professional standards. Because the message is to make the audience feel guilty or deliberately create this state Chen Mangyao did exactly the opposite He said he wanted to serve, not express I think the first goal is to make a column The second goal is to write songs  I think his evaluation is very accurate. Because in a relatively free environment, you can probably see a more normal state in the public opinion. That is, most people do not remember the common sense, wisdom, and have a need for the understanding ability and a need for the complexity of reality. So the Chen Party demands our respect and service to this need. So Chen Meng's training years ago, he trained us to think independently, to prepare for freedom. If you are independent, when someone controls you, your thoughts will not be constrained. When no one controls you, you can control yourself. Because there is one thing that is higher than your border. That is the new road. Of course, independence is a price. And it's probably the same in any society. The last time I saw them in the CCTV was at a party in 2007. At that time, the CCTV organization was greatly adjusted. Then the producer was basically fired. Chen Wang's former subordinate was promoted to his superior. According to the rules, all the hosts and producers of this party will be invited to the party. They will be invited to welcome the new host. When the party is held, the life is very expensive. Chen Mang doesn't say a word. He just bids his farewell. I sit opposite him and see his hair being cut. Half of it is white. Slowly, someone started to stand up and toast to the new owner. Slowly, more and more people stood up. Slowly, someone said, "Why hasn't Cai Jingying come to toast?" At that time, the door opened and Qiu Youyan came in. After she came in, she didn't say anything. But from that moment on, no one entered. This is him. He never participated in such activities before. I guess he came for Chen Meng that time. Chen Meng's fate is particularly good. Ah, no. 也不得罪人也没有什么也不跟谁结什么梁子像我们俩三关一号就比如私下聊天的时候不喜欢谁或者烦谁这总可以谈吧但是我觉得我没听到过他跟我抱怨过这样的事 这个什么意思呢我表达就是说他没跟我抱怨过这件事也就是说这件事还没有上升到那个程度就是值得你放在心里不停的去说小崔说不值得对我觉得应该就是这个词 I was with Chen Mang when the party was over. I didn't know what to say to him. I just walked away silently. He saw it. He smiled and said to me, "Hey, that's what's going on." It means he didn't have to mention it. He has something he cares about. Once, very late at night, at 1 or 2 o'clock in the evening, I was looking for something to eat on the street. I walked a long way and found a braised pork with braised pork. One bowl of pork stew costs 1.5 yuan. It takes a long time to earn that money. I asked him why he wanted to open this stall. He answered very simply. He said he couldn't let other people's children have chocolate. Our children don't eat chocolate. After hearing this, I was particularly moved. I think they live more real than me. 2008年1月,新聞評論部撤銷兩個月之後,陳芒被確診為未來晚期他去世前的三分鐘醫生把我們叫進了他的這個床前就是我是眼看著他在掙扎 然后医生在大声呼叫他名字把那个氧气面罩放到他的脸上最后看到那个心脏的指正心跳的指正没有了我们很难受应该是特别好的这个哥们朋友 Bye. I remember when I was in primary school, I stood outside the ward, in the corridor, looking at them through the window of the ward, looking at the hand of Chen Meng holding the original, and silently nodding, saying, "What are you doing?" The director told me before, "You still don't know the truth. You will only be able to change if you encounter a big setback in the future." At that time, I didn't know that his death would be the biggest setback I had encountered. But I was truly independent from then on. In 2009, I was both transferred from the news review department to the civil service department. In 2013, we both left the city. But at that time, for me, where to go, who to work with, how others evaluate my profession, how others evaluate me, I had nothing. Because the group is gone. He always said that there should be one more landmark in life. That is, to live and die. It's his departure that made me understand this may be the most important landmark. There is a book that I have been carrying with me for so many years. It's a long story. It was organized by Mr. Xu Kong. It's a big sample of this book. He gave it to me. It's called "Don't Go Too Far". I forgot why I left. I will often look at it. If I don't use it, I will know my creation. I found my own way of creating, and I discovered it in my life with Mr. Guo. But sometimes when I turn around, I see a resonance from him. I feel surprised. It seems that life is not so lonely. Is Chen Bang a genius? I don't think so. I think he is just a person who is very self-righteous and good at summarizing. He graduated from the School of Fine Arts and Sciences in Hakong University. He started working at the Central Institute of Fine Arts and Sciences in 1985. He told us that every work you do, you have to write a report. Not for others, but for your family and yourself. He did it. So in the future, he said that I have to ensure that I have the answer to any question you encounter. Because I missed it and I corrected it. I know why it was so correct. I am a very ordinary person with no strength, no talent, and I am always very slow and clumsy. But if I am a loyal person like me, and the people in the country think I can train, then it means that this kind of independent thinking training is actually doable. When I passed by the Shuangjing Bridge, I saw the East West Chang'an Street. I would think of how Chen Mang taught me. I took my phone and walked from Junbo to Jianguo Gate. It was a long way. I thought it was a real model. Ten years later, I looked at this street from another angle. It was the first time I thought that there was such a person in this world. He was watching me with so much time in his life, pushing me to the limit. Because he didn't want me to make any mistakes and waste my life. I thought I lost my eyes like that. But in 2024, I met Xiao Cui on YouTube. We were still on the same road for so many years. When I interviewed the military service, someone told me that Xiao Cui had been here. 为什么新闻评论部的人出来之后要做历史因为历史也是新闻这是陈芒当年的定义但凡观众想吃而未吃的东西他就是新闻我们关心新闻中的人小崔说希望将来有一天他有那样的自由就每看我们一期节目他就出来分析一期不是他好为人事是因为他知道我们是好朋友我会特别高兴 He said nothing. I am really very happy. I hope that day, the day I wait for, Xiaoqin, I wish you a happy new year in 2025.