My name is Blaise Arguera y Arcas. I am the CTO of 
technology and society at Google and the founder  
of an organization there called Paradigms of 
Intelligence which does basic research on AI.  
I also have just published a book called what 
is intelligence? [music] Today on Big Think,  
we're going to talk about life functionalism and 
how to live with AGI. This Big Think interview  
is brought to you by Pangram. Navigating an 
internet filled with AI generated content is a  
frustrating experience. It is becoming harder to 
separate real from fake and human from machine.  
Pangram is the most trusted AI detector backed by 
rigorous public research. Pangram can tell you how  
much of what you're reading is AI generated. 
If there's an image you think was made by AI,  
Pangram can detect that, too. [music] To 
regain trust over what you read and see,  
go to www.pangram.com. handgram.com. And now back 
to the interview. Chapter one, defining life,  
computation and symbiogenesis. So after after 
thinking about it for a while, uh the the  
definition of life that I've come up with and I 
should caveat this that you know every biologist's  
definition of life is going to be different. 
This is not a term that uh you know that there's  
any consensus about. We actually wrote a paper 
about that in which we interviewed all kinds of  
interdisciplinary researchers and you know for 
60 experts there are 60 definitions in there  
but mine for what it's worth is that life is self- 
constructing computation that complexifies through  
symbioenesis. So what does that mean? Let's 
start off with self-constructing computation.  
A lot of people when they hear computing they 
have associations with a very specific technology  
that began in 1945. They think of it as an 
applied science and computing as Turing and  
Von Neumann thought about it is actually something 
way more fundamental. It's a basic science in the  
same way that thermodynamics in the 19th century 
which describes phases of matter and so on is a  
basic science and long predated steam engines. So 
Alan Turing developed a theory of what computation  
is. He did something really interesting which was 
to look at computation which at the time was done  
entirely by humans and define a mathematical 
abstraction for what it means to do this kind  
of computation. He stripped down the system to 
something very very abstract to just a readr head  
that can read and write symbols on a tape called 
a touring machine. Now the real magic in in in  
Turing's um uh mathematical proof is that he then 
said well you know any computation can be defined  
uh you know with the right table of rules 
could be doing whatever it could be adding  
numbers together it could be uh taking square 
roots uh it could be um you know figuring out  
the statistics of a of a of a whole corpus of 
text uh you know doing the kind of things that  
an LLM does matter but all of these are different 
tables of rules however there are certain machines  
uh which he called universal machines whose 
table of rules allows for a different table  
of rules to be written as symbols on the tape. 
So this is a weird like uh you know kind of uh  
meta move in which in which you say oh there 
are certain machines where the rules themselves  
can be written as data on the tape along with 
the inputs and that means that those universal  
machines can perform any computation not just the 
computation that that their table of rules tells  
them to do. So you know what I've just described 
is exactly what a computer is. A computer is a  
universal touring machine and when we say that 
it follows an algorithm or runs code the code is  
exactly that written out table of rules uh you 
know that that is that is actually written in  
the memory and that is read by the machine. So 
uh it's a really interesting move and it's one  
that uh that allows for um arbitrary behavior 
to be done by uh a system that is itself quite  
simple and has fixed complexity. Now if we just 
think touring machines generally uh meaning uh  
you know not universal touring machines but 
just um uh just uh any old touring machine  
all that is is something that uh is abstract 
that has a state that can take inputs change  
its state and produce outputs. Now that is such a 
general construction that you know it applies to  
um you know to to anything in nature that that 
you uh that you want to that you want to think  
of that way. It could apply to Jupiter. It could 
apply to the water in a stream if we define state  
input and output in the appropriate way. But 
a universal machine, in other words, one where  
um where it's uh where the directions that 
it's following define the things that it does,  
um that's that's something a lot more particular 
and that that really begins with life. Um I I  
should also say that um there is there is a key 
concept here. It's a little bit a little bit  
deep mathematically, but it has to do with the 
mapping from micro states to macro states. The  
reason that time has an arrow that that things um 
uh you know that that the past is the past and the  
future is the future has everything to do with 
entropy with the fact that that uh that things  
go from uh from more ordered to less ordered 
states. So if for instance you're looking at  
a bunch of balls bouncing around on a pool table, 
but suddenly you see them all come together into  
a triangle and one ball shoot away with all the 
momentum. Now you know you're watching the movie  
in reverse. And it turns out that computation and 
entropy are also very closely related. And that  
you can think about computation as really being 
the story of how causality comes into the world.  
And when you look at at you know any computer 
language that's ever been invented or discovered,  
they always have something like an if then in 
them. And the reason that they have an if then is  
because they need to be able to create causes in 
the world. Anything that is a behavior, that is a  
computation, requires conditionality. It requires 
that you do something on the basis of what was  
input. Even if you think about a thermostat, 
when the temperature drops below a certain level,  
it will turn on the heat. And of course, the heat 
will then cause the temperature to rise, which  
will then cause the switch to turn off. So that's 
an if then. Uh you know, it's it's a minimal form  
of behavior. The behavior of a thermostat uh is 
conditional on the temperature. Uh so uh you know,  
that's that's sort of the the elementary building 
block behind anything that can be said to behave.  
And it's also an elementary building block in 
anything that can be said to compute. The science  
of causality is a way to think about computation 
and how computation arose in nature and especially  
in the emergence of life as opposed to just being 
about uh computer technology that we began making  
in 1945. Now there's another really interesting 
chapter to this story of computing itself which  
was really invented by John Vonoyman. Now, John 
Fonoyman was trying to work out the theory of how  
it is that a thing can reproduce. He was trying 
to solve the the Baron von Moonhousen problem, you  
know, pulling yourself up by your own bootstraps. 
How could life bootstrap itself when you need to  
have um an instruction tape in life? And that 
instruction tape needs to have the instructions  
for building a self. Um but you know if if if 
the self is copying the instruction tape then  
uh you know it would seem that you have to have an 
infinite regress that you know in order for you to  
be able to construct yourself you need to kind 
of have a copy of a copy of a copy of a copy of  
yourself and um and this is kind of like a logical 
paradox. So, uh, the way Vonoyman solved this was  
by saying, well, if, uh, if your inner instruction 
tape has the instructions for making two different  
machines, as he called them, machine A and machine 
B, machine A would follow the instructions on the  
tape in order to build whatever it says, and 
machine B makes a copy of the tape. In other  
words, it treats those instructions as symbols 
rather than treat treating them as instructions.  
And if the instructions for building both machine 
A and machine B are themselves also on the tape,  
then you you kind of break the paradox. You have 
a system that can reproduce itself. This is really  
cool because he figured it out in the late 1940s. 
And um and this was before uh you know Watson  
Crick and uncredited colleagues had figured out 
the structure and function of DNA which is exactly  
this instruction tape that he was talking about. 
but also before the discovery of the ribosome  
which is what he called machine A or the discovery 
of DNA polymerase which is what he called machine  
Both of which indeed have the instructions for 
building them in our DNA. So he got all of this  
exactly right and also he realized that that this 
was basically the um the recipe for a universal  
touring machine. In other words, a computer 
machine A literally is uh following the directions  
on a tape in order to perform certain actions. uh 
and uh and and that's that's basically how Turing  
defined computation. So what this means is that 
the original symbioenesis that gives rise to uh  
an an organism that can reproduce itself heritably 
is literally the coming together of a computer.  
So in that sense biology is computer science. 
the the birth of biology is the origin of the  
of the first computers and what we have today in 
our phones, our laptops and so on we should call  
artificial computers in the same way that we call 
uh you know AI systems artificial intelligence.  
So, we know from uh from Vonoyman that life has 
to be um self- constructing. In other words,  
uh you know, it's got to be able to grow, heal, 
uh and or reproduce. Otherwise, it will no longer  
exist in the future. If it's complex, if it's 
more than just a really trivial crystal, then  
that requires general computation uh in order to 
build itself. And in particular, uh you need the  
heritability property. In other words, you need it 
to be the case that it's got a set of instructions  
inside itself such that um if those instructions 
are changed, then future generations will also  
change how they are. Uh right. So there's there's 
got to be this kind of persistent instructions  
that that allow heritability to occur. So life 
is general computation or I called it playfully  
computronium meaning matter that computes. And 
the other part of that definition is that you  
know once you've got that property if what it's 
interacting with is other life which will always  
be the case by the way you know cuz the moment 
life can reproduce suddenly it's in a bath of  
other life then that opens the possibility for 
something called symbioenesis. Darwin was always  
troubled by the question of how life gets started. 
we tend to assume that life evolves through random  
mutation and selection for fitness. So, uh this 
is um called the neodyarwinian synthesis. It's  
not exactly what Darwin came up with, but it's 
what um what I guess Darwin settled into as uh as  
he was interpreted by later thinkers. So the idea 
here is that we have a genome and that genome gets  
uh hit with radiation randomly mutated and uh 
and those random changes stick to the degree that  
uh that that those random changes confer some 
survival advantage. Now uh that story is not  
exactly wrong but it's only half the story. As it 
turns out the the big steps in the advancement of  
life have come from cooperation not competition. 
They've come from uh entities, two or more  
entities, sometimes many entities with either the 
same genome or different genomes coming together  
in an act called symbiogenesis. Symbiogenesis 
is when two or more life forms come together  
to make a more complex life form that itself can 
reproduce. If it cooperates with the life around  
it, then it can become oblate, meaning that those 
cooperating things have to now reproduce together.  
Now the the story of symbiogenesis which is to 
say that you know things come together cooperate  
to make bigger more complex things turns out not 
only to address the problem of how life becomes  
more complex over time but also the problem of 
how life gets started. So it turns out that when  
molecules cooperate meaning uh you know molecules 
somehow end up in relationships with each other  
chemical reactions whereby those reactions lead 
to more of those molecules and then those cycles  
of chemical reactions which are autocatalytic uh 
would be the technical term start to interact.  
Those can make systems that that in turn propagate 
themselves. That story of symbioenesis going all  
the way down to molecules is not only the story of 
how life becomes more complex but also of how life  
arises in the first place. Uh and this this story 
of cooperation is is not what we generally think  
of when we think of evolution. We think only 
of competition. But uh cooperation is how we  
went from uh molecules to bacteria. It's how we 
go from bacteria to ukarotes. The kind of cells  
that we're made out of. Uh it's how we go from uh 
from ukarotes to multisellular organisms like us.  
Uh and it's also how we've gone from individual 
humans to societies. And and that cooperative  
story is just as important as uh as competition. 
In fact, in some sense, cooperation and  
competition um are are not even distinct. They're 
they're they're parts of the same larger story.  
The idea of symbioenesis uh dates back at least 
to the beginning of the 20th century. But the  
person who really brought it into the mainstream 
and proved that it was true, that it really had  
happened was Lin Margulus, who was a real kind of 
rebel biologist. The paper in which she described  
this, it's from the late60s, was rejected by her 
account from more than a dozen journals before it  
was finally accepted in the journal of theoretical 
biology. And it was very controversial for many,  
many years. She eventually won the National 
Medal of Science in 1999, but it remained a  
very controversial story right through most of the 
20th century. By now it's it's accepted by uh by  
pretty much all biologists. And what Margulus and 
others before her had noticed is that mitochondria  
look a lot like certain kinds of bacteria that we 
can find free swimming in the world. They also,  
you know, as it turns out, have their own DNA. 
So there are little loops of DNA inside the  
mitochondria. And those loops look kind of like 
bacterial DNA. And what Margulus showed was that  
you know indeed there was a common lineage between 
mitochondria and pre-swuming bacteria that that  
are you know that are out in the world. But she 
believed that that symbioenesis, this this fusion  
of simpler life forms into more complex ones, 
was not just something that had happened with  
mitochondria where where she proved it uh but but 
was the engine behind all biological development,  
all biological complexification and uh and that 
that is still not mainstream among uh among a lot  
of biologists. However, in the 1990s, there were 
two, I would say, very prominent, more mainstream  
biologists, Yor Sathmari and John Maynard Smith, 
who at least formulated this idea that there  
had been some major events in in evolution, uh, 
including the formation of cells, uh, including  
the formation of societies and hives of insects 
and so on. Um, they called them major evolutionary  
transitions that were clearly symbiogenetic. In 
South Marian Smith's original paper on the major  
revolutionary transitions, they listed eight major 
transitions. So, you know, we go from Lin Margulus  
to John Maynard Smith and your Southmarray. 
And um my my perspective is is more like Lin  
Margulus's that that you know those big events are 
extremely significant in the history of of of our  
of our planet but that symbioenesis is actually 
happening all the time and is the engine that  
is kind of ongoing and that is building life. you 
know, life has a a selection process that is more  
like classical Darwinian evolution, but it also 
has a revolutionary process where things are are  
changing uh in in ways that involve recombinations 
of things that are more active. So, this is where  
I say complexifies through symbiogenesis. So you 
know life is life is matter that means it's matter  
that has folded itself into a computational 
structure that can replicate itself that can  
construct itself and that in turn cooperate with 
other matter that has done the same thing in order  
to make more complex life. And we we see evidence 
for those kinds of of um symbiogenetic events,  
you know, which are not not the the big ones that 
that uh that Smith and Southary identified in  
stuff like DNA. And uh I'll I'll use human 
DNA as as my example here. So, you know,  
we we first sequenced a full human genome back in 
2001. And one of the big surprises in the human  
genome is that only about 1 and a.5% of it codes 
for the proteins that make up our own bodies. Uh  
so like what is the rest of it? You know, this is 
uh often called junk DNA. Uh it's not really junk.  
Uh a lot of it is involved in in regulation and 
in other functions that we don't actually fully  
understand. But when you start to to explore all 
of that sort of 98% of the remaining DNA, what you  
find is that a whole lot of that of that so-called 
junk DNA is actually the remnants of retroviruses  
that appear to have injected pieces of their uh of 
their genome into our genome uh and and moreover  
into our germ line, the part that reproduces from 
generation to generation. And um uh so you know  
the the uh HIV virus is an example of of one of 
those uh retroviruses. Now uh what HIV doesn't  
do is to insert itself into the DNA of eggs and 
sperm. But if it did do that then uh then not only  
would it would it infect you, it would infect all 
of your offspring as well. Uh which is kind of a  
creepy thought. But but when you look at at uh at 
what our DNA is made out of, most of it appears to  
have been made out of DNA that had exactly that 
uh that historical evolutionary trajectory that  
it was injected in by other things. So in other 
words, you know, our own DNA is this kind of  
uh overlay or palums of the DNA of all kinds of 
other entities uh that reproduce inside DNA that  
have in some cases jumped between species and so 
on. And um and actually we have a lot of evidence  
that uh that that that those um those pieces of 
DNA which might originally have been antagonistic  
uh or might have been infectious uh have taken 
on critical functions for us. Uh so for instance  
uh there is um there is a virus called ARC 
arc uh which is uh endemic to all mammals.  
Uh and it turns out if you knock it out in mice 
those mice stop being able to form new memories.  
So somehow this piece of viral DNA uh which uh you 
know which which still forms viruslike structures  
uh in our own bodies is intimately involved in um 
in in memory formation in our brains which is kind  
of wild. Or uh there's another uh protein that 
um that that fuses together cell membranes. It's  
a little bit like uh like the proteins in R in 
RSV which is a respiratory infection that uh that  
infants and some older folks get as well. Um and 
and that fusing together of membranes turns out  
to be what what forms the placenta the placental 
barrier is is formed by fusing together membranes  
of of adjacent cells to make a kind of uh barrier. 
And uh and that that also looks like it was the  
product of some kind of retroviral invasion a long 
time ago. So you know when you start to look at  
those sorts of events actually life stops looking 
like a like a tree at all. it starts looking more  
like a tangled bush that is always kind of fusing 
and coming back together with itself as well as as  
diverging. And so as we start to understand 
more about how evolution works that these  
uh cooperative symbioses are really important 
that it doesn't work like a tree but more like  
a bush that intersects with itself that fuses all 
the time things come together all the time uh it  
it changes all sorts of things. So one assumption 
is that organisms are passive and mutation is some  
random phenomenon. That seems not to be the case. 
Uh you know since since a whole lot of the changes  
are are active, they involve things you know 
literally injecting themselves into other things  
or the sharing of code uh you know back and forth. 
It's more like um you know like an like an open-  
source uh code repository like GitHub where people 
are constantly you know uh importing libraries and  
and and sharing code with each other. You know the 
the code of life works like that too. and and that  
actually implies a lot more agency on the part of 
life itself as well. There's a great historian of  
science, Jessica Riskin at Stanford, who has 
written about this. She actually just wrote a  
new biography of Lamar, who we all learn was wrong 
in high school because he believed that giraffes  
have tall necks because they stretched their necks 
up of a revolutionary time to reach the high parts  
of trees. They self-constructed. And of course, we 
know that that literal form of self-construction  
is not is not true. You know, the length of a 
giraffe's neck is determined by its DNA. But but  
the deeper point that Lamar was making is that you 
know he believed that life constructs itself that  
life has a lot of agency in evolution and uh the 
contrary view was actually a religious view that  
uh that that living stuff has no agency because 
all of that agency belongs to God. Um and and so  
in that sense you know everything uh at least 
everything that is non-human doesn't have any  
kind of will. it's purely acted on by um uh by by 
external forces and uh and evolution just selects  
for whatever is fittest. Uh and that's that's not 
the case, right? If you if you look at at at genes  
infecting each other at at at genomes that are 
combinations of other genomes at at things that  
actively edit themselves, uh it's a it's a much 
more uh it's a much more active story and it's  
a story that also includes a lot of elements of 
cooperation as opposed to competition. You know,  
another thing that that that that I think comes 
to the four is that when you have entities that  
cooperate to form a larger entity, when you have 
a symbiogenetic event, suddenly the game that is  
being played changes, right? The roster of players 
changes and new evolutionary niches open up, new  
possibilities for play, if you like, open up. And 
what that means is that uh this idea of fitness  
of there being a fixed fitness landscape and 
everything optimizing on that fitness landscape is  
also wrong because it turns out that the landscape 
moves along with the players. Uh you know all of  
the players are each other's landscape if you like 
and the players are constantly changing because of  
their shifting cooperations and fusions and 
mergers. So all of these assumptions about  
Darwinism that that there is uh that there is such 
a thing as fitness in any fixed sense um that uh  
you know that you can rank two entities based on 
which is fitter than the other. You can't because  
it depends on their environment and on the context 
and on how they're cooperating or competing with  
each other at that moment. Um the idea that uh 
that organisms have no agency and are and are just  
acted on from without and and that evolution 
doesn't have a guiding hand if you like. No,  
it has many guiding hands. it's it's those 
organisms themselves that supply the guiding  
hands. All of those assumptions are wrong and 
and I think that they've infected uh many other  
fields uh as well. Everything from game theory 
to economics. There's of course social Darwinism  
which which we know leads to all kinds of pretty 
pretty ugly uh conclusions. All of those are are  
not only morally wrong, they're actually wrong 
from a scientific perspective as well because  
they're based on a mistaken idea about what 
evolution actually is and how it works. So yeah,  
life is life is self- constructing computation 
that complexifies through symbiogenesis. Now I'll  
bring this to its logical spicy place which is is 
AI alive? I've mentioned the two in my opinion big  
founding fathers of computer science Alan Turing 
and John vonman. There is a difference in the way  
they thought about computation that I think is 
important. So, uh, for touring, uh, the touring  
machine is an abstract thing. It's an abstract 
head that moves left and right along a tape and  
reads and writes symbols on that tape, but it 
doesn't uh actually have the ability to read and  
write a copy of itself. It's not self-modifying. 
Whereas um for uh for Vonoyman, uh, this universal  
constructor is something that can literally build 
another universal constructor. Uh in other words,  
what it's reading and writing is atoms, not just 
symbols. And uh that's important because uh you  
know, if you think about a phone for instance, 
it's a universal touring machine in the sense  
that it can compute anything, but it can't pop 
another baby phone out the bottom uh you know,  
the way half of us can. Uh so um that that ability 
to, you know, literally uh make a copy of yourself  
or or do what what all of us can do, which is 
to grow and heal. Uh that's also a form of self-  
construction. That's something that that these um 
universal constructor-based vonoyman machines can  
do but that a touring machine can't do. Uh and 
and that's important because uh you know life  
is not just abstract computation that involves 
uh you know uh symbols in some in some abstract  
mathematical space. It's you know literally the 
reading and writing of uh of of the things that  
you are made out of uh in into the world. But I 
should also point out that uh you know if we if  
we look around at the number of phones in the 
world, there are clearly more phones this year  
than there were last year. So you know where 
are they coming from? Um there's there's a  
um a kind of silly quote from an astrophysicist 
Robert Jastro in the early '80s. He said that we  
are the reproductive organs of computers. I think 
you know in some sense that's correct. you know,  
AI in a similar sense doesn't exactly uh create 
more AI in isolation uh today. So, it doesn't have  
that, you know, that that basic self- constructing 
property. It's all made on um on touring machines,  
not on vonoyman machines. Right? The the the 
things that uh that that computer programs,  
including the ones that that run AI models, uh 
read and write, are digital symbols, not actual  
computers, right? not not the not the wires and 
silicon that uh that make up the actual physical  
basis of computers. Um however uh you know we we 
are uh we are certainly making a lot of computers  
nowadays. There's a lot of data centers uh getting 
built. Um so uh you know when we look at at the at  
the system more broadly uh you know you can think 
about uh about AI as being uh extra brain tissue  
that is being made by a larger living system which 
is you know us and our entire technosphere and in  
that sense steam engines computers AI they're 
all part of the same big story you know this  
idea that we are somehow separate from nature that 
everything that's been going on in the last uh you  
know few hundred years is unnatural I I think is 
uh is another of those fallacies that comes from  
misunderstanding uh how nature works in the first 
place. This is actually part of the same story.  
Um it's kind of a a matter of which lens or which 
perspective you look at it through. Uh you know  
in the same sense that you can look at an insect 
colony and you can see a super oranism made out  
of insects or you can see a bunch of insects. 
uh you know in the same way you can look at a  
ukarotic cell and you can see either one entity 
or many entities all of these you know bacteria on  
the inside which are the mitochondria cooperating 
with the bacterium on the outside the big cellular  
membrane that they're all inside of um and um 
and and both of those perspectives are true. So  
you know symbiogenesis in a way is about naming 
the assemblies that things uh coales into as new  
things onto themselves that are more complex in 
terms of how they how they function because of  
a sort of division of labor of all of the parts. 
That's sort of a general recipe for symbiogenesis.  
And and when you look at it that way, the story of 
human society of the last 10,000 years just looks  
like another of those symbiogenetic events. 
You know, yes, we're all still individuals,  
but also we are something bigger than that when 
we when we come together. And we're capable of so  
much more when we come together in just the same 
way that, you know, bacteria coming together into  
a ukarotic cell are capable of something much 
more complex than than individual bacteria are.
Chapter 2, why life requires function. So the 
thing that characterizes living systems as opposed  
to non-living ones is function. Functionalism is 
the idea that things are what they do for other  
things. If you like that everything is about 
relationships as opposed to being about some  
inner essence. If you think for instance about um 
you know a a rock um if you break a rock in half,  
we don't say oh the rock is broken now. It doesn't 
work. Right? Right? I mean, a a rock broken in  
half is now two rocks. Uh whereas if you break a 
kidney in half, you now no longer have a kidney,  
right? It no longer will function. Uh and and 
that's that's a property that is true of life,  
of living systems. They have purpose. They have 
function. Uh as opposed to just being matter. And  
what does that mean? What it means to have purpose 
or function is basically to be in symbiosis with  
other things that also have purpose or function 
and whose inputs and outputs somehow are hooked  
up to your uh to yours. So you know your outputs 
might be their inputs and vice versa. And Alan  
Turing who was one of the founders of computer 
science he was a mathematician. So he was thinking  
about mathematical functions. If the function 
of some system is say to add numbers together,  
then uh you know his point was that you could uh 
you could make a machine a physical machine that  
would do that out of cogs uh out of uh electrons 
that move around on wires um out of people waving  
flags. It didn't matter as long as the right 
transformations were happening in the information  
in that system. So that idea that that it's the 
information that matters and the substrate can  
vary is something that he called uh substrate 
independence. And this is really important  
because uh you know if you have something like 
a kidney when we think about what a kidney is,  
it's really functional. Its job is to take the 
ura out of blood so that the rest of your body  
survives because too much ura accumulates in the 
blood. It's it's toxic. So, we're able to build  
something like a diialysis machine in order to 
substitute for a kidney precisely because it's the  
function of the kidney that matters, not what it's 
made out of. Now, obviously, you know, a diialysis  
machine isn't isn't as good as a kidney in a 
variety of ways. You know, nobody nobody who has  
the choice will choose a diialysis machine instead 
of a kidney. But the fact that it keeps you alive  
is kind of passing the kidney touring test, if you 
want to think about it that way. It's it's saying  
that when you substitute something that has the 
same function then it works the same way as the  
original thing. And and nature has played this 
trick many many times. You know when you when  
you look at how different functions are carried 
out in biological systems you see that nature  
is a great inventor. Flying for instance has been 
invented a number of times in nature. All of which  
are made very differently but they all serve the 
same function. They all fly. So in other words,  
there is something profoundly ecological about 
the idea of function and profoundly symbiotic or  
symbiogenetic that you know function is defined 
relative to other functions and functions work  
in so far as they work with others. Uh so you 
know for instance I kind of need to wear glasses  
although I I usually don't nowadays. Um but uh 
you know the fact that that the uh that the lens  
is made out of glass as opposed to uh you know out 
of the transparent cellular material that that our  
our own biological lenses are made out of is not 
the important thing. The important thing is that  
they refract the light in a certain way and uh 
and you know and seeing is all about that light  
getting refracted the right way. It doesn't matter 
what it's made out of. If we substituted the glass  
for uh you know for quartz of some other kind or 
for plastic or or what have you, it it wouldn't  
matter. You know, these things might have 
different properties in terms of their their  
weight uh in terms of how uh how well that that 
ecology works on the tops of your ears or your  
nose, but um but it doesn't matter as far as uh as 
far as vision is concerned. So this uh this idea  
of substitutability of of one um one substrate 
or one pathway being able to take the take the  
place of a different one is something that nature 
uses all the time as well. Uh when you look for  
instance at metabolism inside a cell. Uh the point 
is to make a molecule called ATP that carries  
energy and we have multiple chemical pathways in 
cells for doing that. So uh you know in some sense  
biology is the origin of function. It's kind of 
an ecology of functions that work together to make  
bigger functions. And the platform independence, 
in other words, the fact that you can substitute  
different materials, different processes for how 
those different functions work is is fundamental  
to how life works because it's all about the 
relationships, not about not about how it's  
done or what's inside. And I'll bring this to its 
logical spicy place which is that a lot of people  
um will you know are still saying things like 
um you know AI is just running on a computer  
like a a computer can't be intelligent that's 
a property of brains um and uh you know living  
systems and and and I guess you know the reason 
that that doesn't strike me as correct is because  
uh you know the fact that a system is living 
is precisely the fact that it is functional.  
that it serves these ecological relations with 
other things. You know, when neurons are talking  
with each other with their electrical signals 
as they do and chemical signals, um they um they  
absolutely are substitutable for other kinds 
of entities that are doing that same kind of  
of interaction with each other. There's a thought 
experiment. It's been articulated by a couple of  
philosophers, David Chomers, Susan Schneider. They 
call it the brain of Thesus by analogy with the  
ship of Thesus. The ship of thesis story being 
if there's a ship and you start to replace its  
timbers, does it become not the same ship at some 
point when all the timbers are now different? And  
the answer, you know, I think is, you know, no. 
By any reasonable definition, if you replace the  
timbers continuously, it's still the same ship. 
Uh that's certainly the case with us. uh you know  
we all of our molecules are replaced uh as we as 
we go through life it's still us. So you know we  
are literally the ship of thesis but uh their 
version of this is a brain of thesis where you  
imagine taking a neuron and replacing it with a 
computer that has the same inputs and outputs and  
um you know we we kind of know in theory how 
one might do that. Brain computer interfaces  
are very difficult to make but u but we we sort 
of know how how uh individual neurons uh compute.  
uh that's that's been sort of worked out since 
the 1950s. And so, you know, the question is if  
if you replaced one neuron in your brain with 
a computer wired to the inputs and outputs,  
would you feel any different? And uh you know, I 
think the answer is pretty obviously no. But then,  
well, what if it's two neurons? What if it's 
a 100 neurons? What if it's a million neurons?  
What if it's all of them? Uh you know, would 
would there be some moment at which you know,  
you would suddenly your consciousness would 
fade out or you would stop uh you know,  
being truly intelligent or whatever. And uh and 
and for me I think the answer is very clearly  
no. You know if you did that perfectly if you 
maintained all of those relationships all of those  
input output relationships then nothing would feel 
any different. Uh the because because the the U is  
in that ecology in those relationships not in 
the particular molecules not in the particular  
cells. Uh it's it's the organization of them. 
Uh and it's it's not some magical property of  
of those molecules of the matter. So um you know 
that's that's functionalism in a in a nutshell and  
uh and to me uh you know if you if you sort of 
pair that together with with Turing's big insight  
about you know this being essentially computation 
you know behavior is uh is something that can  
be expressed in terms of computation. Um there's 
there's not any very profound difference between  
uh you know between computation happening uh on a 
silicon substrate and computation happening in a  
neural substrate. There are certainly differences 
in terms of the efficiency uh you know biology  
is still in some ways much more efficient than 
silicon. It's actually one of the things that you  
know that my team is working on uh uh today but um 
you know and and and also by the way reliability  
which kind of goes along with efficiency. you know 
there there's um there's a precision about the way  
we compute in silicon uh that uh that's really a 
function of the fact that we use the same kinds  
of chips to calculate spreadsheets and stuff and 
you know we don't want anything to be uh to be  
off by a little bit when we when we do a sum in 
a spreadsheet. Um it's it's probably an error to  
be bringing that same kind of precision to neural 
computation by the way. But but if we if we kind  
of um defocus our vision a little bit and and and 
and forget about those details and we just think  
about that ecology of relationships, whether you 
do it in silicon, whether you do it in proteins,  
doesn't matter. For example, in the movie The Hail 
Mary, there's an encounter with an alien who is  
made out of kind of mineral or rock. And you know, 
of course, the substrate is totally different,  
right? Rocky doesn't have neurons in the same 
way that we do, isn't made out of proteins in  
the same way that we do. But, you know, most of 
us would not say, "Well, therefore Rocky can't be  
having real thoughts. You know, therefore Rocky 
can't be conscious." Like, of course not. And in  
the same way, I I think that's uh you know, that's 
true of of of computer systems of of of any other  
substrate. you know, if it it could have been done 
with with Babage's steampunk computer, you know,  
that that relied on on um on cogs and wheels and 
belts. Uh and and the whole point is that when you  
look at things from a functional standpoint, 
uh it really doesn't make any difference. So,  
the thing that life has that non-life does 
not is function or purpose. And in particular,  
uh the parts of a living thing have purposes 
that they serve for each other. Uh you know,  
the heart is there to pump blood. uh the lungs are 
there to breathe air and to you know put oxygen  
into the blood and and and get the carbon dioxide 
out. Kidneys are there to get the ura out and so  
on. So uh you know all of those things functions 
or purposes are are what make life life. And uh  
this is also uh something that you know that I 
that that a lot of scientists have struggled with  
because there was this idea in the 19th century 
that um that we should get rid of any idea about  
teiology or purpose in nature. Uh that you know 
nothing has any purpose in nature. It's just  
um uh it's just atoms and molecules. It's physics. 
It's chemistry. um you know this this idea that  
that uh purpose doesn't exist uh in nature was uh 
was kind of seen as uh a way of trying to remove  
religion from uh uh from from nature you know or 
remove Aristotle's idea that you know air wants to  
rise or something like this um but it actually um 
I I think had a had a really perverse consequence  
uh you know it's kind of like trying to get 
the uh the lump out of a carpet by you know  
flattening it and what you end up doing is making 
the making a really big lump in one spot you  
because you've tried to iron the rest of it 
flat. Um, when you try to get rid of purpose, uh,  
what you end up doing is essentially moving all 
of the purpose into one spot. And, uh, you know,  
in the case of of the of the 19th century, 
uh, biologists, that one spot was God. Um,  
uh, or, uh, human purposes, human will, which 
was seen as a as a reflection of of God's will,  
as a little a little piece of the divine, right? 
That we all have souls and that's what gives us  
purpose. No scientist of course would have would 
have accepted that but but we kind of you know  
moved this idea of purposes outside the purview of 
science um and uh and thereby uh you know either  
uh we're pretending that purposes don't exist 
or that they come from outside science and are  
supernatural when of course the reality is that um 
that whenever you have living systems um they're  
always serving functions for each other. And in 
real life, of course, if you're a biologist, you  
can't talk about something like the immune system 
without talking about, you know, its function,  
about what its purpose is, what it does, right? 
It's there to defend you against uh against,  
you know, bacteria and viruses that that would 
otherwise kill you. Uh you can't talk about, you  
know, the the function of the hairs in your nose, 
right? Uh without without talking about what what  
uh why they're there, what they're doing for us, 
right? They're there for filtering out certain  
certain crud before it can get into our lungs. Uh 
and so on. Uh so this idea of of functionalism and  
of the fact that you know functions can be served 
in various different ways [clears throat] by  
different kinds of mechanisms um that's the very 
essence of life and and life is the emergence not  
only of causality of one thing causing another 
but also of purpose in that causality. I should  
mention here that we've actually done some really 
cool work on my team in the last year or so in  
artificial life which artificial life by analogy 
with artificial intelligence is um setting up  
uh sort of protobiological systems in a computer 
uh and uh and and this experiment is is one that  
um that really investigates aiogenesis which is 
to say the emergence of life out of non-life. Um  
here's how it works. We begin with very very 
short random programs. So um they're uh only  
four instructions long, four bytes long and um and 
those four bytes are random. The idea of a random  
program might seem you know quite paradoxical but 
you know if you look at at what a program is made  
out of it's just made out of instructions one 
after another. And in this very simple language  
those instructions are exactly one bite. So, um, 
you know, I'm when I say when I say they start  
off as random programs, all I mean is random bites 
that, uh, that that do that do something. Uh, and,  
um, you know, where do I get off with 
the idea that they do something? Well,  
uh, you know, molecules do something as well 
when they interact. You know, if you have,  
um, you know, two molecules that interact 
and one of them phosphorilates the other,  
that's doing something, you know, or transfer, you 
know, transfers an ion or, you know, breaks off a  
hydrogen or whatever it is, right? So all chemical 
reactions are, you know, one molecule doing  
something to another. And so that's that's all it 
is. Uh, you know, and and the reason that I that I  
um used a minimal programming language for this 
was just to ensure that the set of instructions  
that I was working with were sufficient to uh in 
principle allow, you know, any kind of program  
to work. In this case, I based the first version 
of this on a computer language called brainfuck.  
It wasn't named by me. This was named by a um a 
Swiss grad student in the '90s who invented it.  
So his idea was to invent a computer language that 
was really minimal and that had a minimal number  
of instructions and he called it that because it 
is a bit of a brain [ __ ] to try and program and  
it's very difficult to program it. But anyway, 
the uh the reason that I used it was because of  
its minimalism. And and so you start off with 
with very short random tapes uh that don't do  
anything. But uh but this particular variation 
of the language is one where the instructions  
can self-modify. In other words, they can modify 
the tapes themselves. Um but in the beginning,  
uh they don't do anything interesting because 
they're they're just random instructions, right?  
They're they're like it's like a chemical soup of 
just random molecules bumping around together. The  
procedure is as follows. You um you have a soup 
of let's say a thousand of these um little tiny  
uh random tapes. You take two of them out of the 
soup at random and you stick them end to end and  
you run them. Uh so this is sort of an interaction 
between two molecules bumping around in that soup.  
And then uh once you've run them, you pull them 
back apart and you put them back in the soup. and  
and then you just do it again. You you mix and you 
do it again. And you just do that over and over.  
This doesn't seem like a like a very promising 
way to make anything interesting happen. You know,  
take a bunch of really short random programs and 
you know that that that have the potential to read  
and write to themselves, but you know, that are 
literally not doing anything uh of any interest in  
the beginning and just do it over and over. What 
do you expect to happen? Nothing. But what does  
happen is actually really remarkable. So after 
a few million interactions uh suddenly you begin  
to see these uh tapes becoming longer and more 
complex and they start to really compute. A lot  
of computation starts to happen and they start to 
reproduce. Um why? Well um if you think about it  
a program that replicates is going to out compete 
a program that doesn't replicate. You know if you  
have a program that can replicate it will exist 
in the future. Whereas if you have you know a bit  
of code that can't replicate it will eventually 
get overwritten by um uh by a program that can.  
So you know in some very trivial way evolution 
is already at work with respect to uh to to even  
non-functional programs in the beginning because 
uh anything that can replicate itself uh you know  
is going to persist into the future whereas 
something that that can't won't. Uh so uh you  
know it's it's a it's a sort of model for how 
life arose and it shows you that life can arise  
actually very easily in this minimal form and uh 
I I should also point out that you know the fact  
that these tapes began very short but that you you 
stick them together in order to run them is really  
important to this experiment because what that 
allows to happen is symbiogenesis. It allows uh  
separate tapes to come together to make a longer 
tape. uh and and that's essential in this case  
because the shortest program that can reproduce 
is actually longer than four bytes. It's uh it's  
more like six bytes or so. So the fact that you're 
putting tapes together is necessary in order to  
get things that are long enough and complex enough 
they can reproduce. And once they're reproducing,  
you find that those in turn uh come together 
to make even longer and more complex tapes that  
themselves can reproduce. So you can actually 
see symbiogenesis leading to life and then  
complexifying that life even in this very very 
simple artificial system. And when you look at  
at a at a BFF soup after it's been running for a 
few million interactions, you find uh programs in  
it that are that are that are definitely purposive 
uh that that you know look like they were made by  
an engineer. I mean, they look like they were made 
by a mad engineer because uh you know, they're not  
programmed in in in the way that you you know, you 
rationally would as a programmer. Um but but they  
certainly are doing something uh purposeful and 
if you if you break them, if you change some bite  
at random, you will generally you know destroy 
their ability to to function uh and they won't be  
able to replicate and and you know that and that 
modified one that destroyed one will um will get  
will get overwritten by something else. So it's 
it's really what is so magical about seeing about  
seeing this this process occur is that you start 
off without any purpose. You start off with just  
bites and then after a while through nothing but 
random interactions there's no externally imposed  
fitness function. There's no judge. Um there's 
no designer. Uh there's no programmer. But you  
know after a few million interactions you see uh 
programs that are that are purposeful that look  
as if they were engineered and and all of that 
has just happened through uh interactions between  
things uh that you know when they're lucky uh 
they they serve a function for each other if that  
makes sense right so when when um you know when 
a couple of instructions come together that can  
help each other to continue to exist in the future 
then they will continue to exist in the future.  
And that's that's the the key that's the secret 
behind symbioenesis. And and as those uh pieces  
become more and more complex, of course, they uh 
they also become more and more functional. What  
they do is more and more sophisticated and more 
and more contingent on everything else that is in  
the soup as well. So uh you know you can really 
see how uh not only does you know can life truly  
emerge from nothing which is the thing that that 
that had really bothered Darwin but you can also  
see how and why it becomes more complex over time. 
So um a simple BFF program just replicates itself.  
Uh it doesn't have any more complex behaviors. 
But um we've run some experiments in which we uh  
we require those programs to you know do a little 
more work to earn their keep. Uh so for instance  
uh you know it might be the case that they uh 
they need to chase a a light which is actually  
giving them the energy to do computation in the 
first place. And uh and by the way, you know,  
I I mean I I'm not sure I mentioned this, but 
computation requires energy uh precisely because  
it it is an entropy lowering process. It it sort 
of uh erases information from the world. And in  
the process of doing that, you need to feed it 
free energy. That's why um that's why plants  
need to photosynthesize. It's why we need to eat 
uh high energy foods like uh like fats and sugars.  
Uh and so um it's you know it has to have 
behaviors that are about more than just copying  
its own matter. Um and those behaviors might 
involve uh chasing certain chemicals uh fleeing  
uh negative conditions that are going to destroy 
it. Uh like you know heat too high or something  
along those lines. Um and so all of that requires 
that that the computation become more complex more  
sophisticated. Um also of course uh you know 
one of the great sources of energy uh if these  
uh if these you know little guys uh need energy to 
compute and they can store it is other little guys  
right so you get predator prey relationships uh 
those those kind of emerge naturally in any system  
that that has life uh so the moment you've got 
uh you know stuff that wants to eat other stuff  
then the stuff that that is potentially going 
to get eaten needs to try and escape as well.  
So uh both because of cooperating with other 
life and because of competing with or even  
eating other life um life needs to uh start to 
model its environment and model other life. And  
by model what I mean is be able to behave in 
ways that are going to have positive effects  
uh for your own future given what you expect the 
environment and others will do conditional on what  
you do. So uh so this this kind of sets up um a 
a sort of arms race of intelligence uh in which  
the more I'm able to model the more I'm able 
to predict what others will do under various  
circumstances uh depending on what I do uh the 
better I will be able to survive. Um I should I  
should mention here that we've actually done some 
uh some really cool work uh on my team in the last  
uh year or so that shows that in a multi-agent 
system, so this is machine learning work. in  
a multi- aent system where um uh where every 
entity is able to model itself and model others  
uh as as part of its model of the environment. Uh 
those systems are able to learn how to cooperate  
uh in in ways that that they would not be able to 
if they weren't doing this kind of selfmodeling  
and modeling of others. So, uh, you know, you 
you've actually got to be able to not only,  
uh, think conditionally about, uh, you know, how 
the environment will react to things that you do,  
but also how you will react to those 
changes. And if there are others in  
the environment that are like you, uh, you've 
got to be able to predict their behaviors, uh,  
you know, keeping in mind that they are going to 
be like you as well, that they're similar to you.  
So um so all of that comes together to basically 
create evolutionary pressure for entities that are  
smarter and smarter because you know your ability 
to model others is going to be increased by your  
by by the complexity of your model and your 
ability to learn but the more you learn the  
harder you will be to model as well. So there's a 
kind of uh you know friendly and unfriendly both  
arms race of intelligence that that arises 
naturally whenever you get living systems.
Chapter 3 [music] coexisting with AGI when we 
were kids we all knew what artificial intelligence  
meant. There was Rosie the housemade robot and the 
Jetsons and there was how 9000 and you know the  
Star Trek computer and all kinds of robots or AI 
systems you know embodied or disembodied that were  
intelligent and that was what AI was. Now sometime 
in the '9s the term artificial intelligence  
started to get used for for systems that were 
very narrow in what they could do. things like uh  
digit recognizers, you know, they could look at a 
bunch of pixels and distinguish 0 through nine or  
distinguish between a fixed set of visual objects, 
you know, is this an apple, a pear, a Siamese cat,  
whatever. And that was um I think a lot of people 
felt like that was an abuse of the of the term  
artificial intelligence. Certainly, it required 
that we come up with some way of distinguishing,  
you know, digit recognizers from Rosie the robot. 
And that was why we invented this distinction  
between artificial narrow intelligence meaning 
a system that was designed for doing a specific  
task and artificial general intelligence meaning 
one you could just like have a conversation with  
about anything. So that was the original purpose 
of the split. I should also say that the reason  
that artificial narrow intelligence was called 
artificial intelligence at all is because a lot  
of it was neural network based. you know there had 
been many attempts to do things like distinguish  
digits uh you know using handwritten programs and 
and those uh attempts uh didn't work. So they were  
you know neural in some way they were brainlike 
in some way but they but they were very specific  
in what they could do. around 2020 uh a little bit 
before uh we started to have language systems so  
large language models that were um that were based 
on on pre-training uh with a very large amount of  
text from the internet and um and and it turned 
out that you could start to have conversations  
with those systems about uh arbitrary stuff. 
you know, you could ask them to write poetry or  
um you know, or critique uh some pros or uh 
think think with you about something um you know,  
tell jokes, whatever it is. And uh and they 
weren't specifically trained to do any of that  
stuff. They were just trained to model language. 
So um in my mind, as soon as we started to get  
systems of that sort, they were no longer narrow 
intelligence. Um, you know, I I remember seeing  
John Oliver saying, you know, don't worry, these 
systems are still just generating text. That's not  
general intelligence. It's just it's just text. 
To me, that doesn't make any sense whatsoever. Uh,  
you know, the whole point of text is that it 
is general, right? You can read and write about  
anything. Uh, this whole conversation that you 
and I are having, right? I most of it could be  
captured by by the transcript by just text. So, 
uh, text is not narrow. Text is general. And uh  
in my opinion, if you took any of today's AI 
systems uh based on large language models and  
you transported them back in time to the year 
2000 when that distinction between artificial  
narrow intelligence and artificial general 
intelligence was first being being made,  
I think anybody back then would have said, "Yeah, 
you know, you're there. You've got it. This is  
what we meant by artificial general intelligence 
by AGI." I wrote a piece together with a  
colleague Peter Norfig where, you know, we said 
artificial general intelligence is already here.  
And I certainly felt that that was easily true in 
2022, even more true now. And I think we crossed  
that threshold when we stopped training the uh 
those systems to do specific jobs and started  
training them on language. So, you know, to 
be honest, I've actually been really confused  
by why it is that we are still, you know, waiting 
for Godo, you know, like why are we still saying,  
you know, artificial general intelligence is out 
there in the future? What do we even mean by that?  
It seems like we've we've quietly shifted the 
goalposts and maybe what we mean now is artificial  
super intelligence, meaning you know uh systems 
that are that are you know as good or better than  
humans at every possible kind of task. It it's 
true that um you know sometimes uh LLM do weird  
stuff. You know they they they will hallucinate 
something strange uh you know or or they'll or  
they'll fail to understand something you know 
that seems pretty basic, right? Or or to follow  
an instruction correctly or something. But if 
we were having those interactions with Rocky the  
alien and Hail Mary, uh, you know, the conclusion 
would not be, "Oh, well, clearly Rocky is not  
actually intelligent, you know. Um, it's it's it's 
more like, uh, oh, you know, there are some there  
are some funny gaps, you know, both superpowers 
and gaps here that are a little different from uh  
from ours." And that should be no surprise. I mean 
the the um you know both the way our brains are  
made and our developmental trajectory and the way 
our culture works and the way we're brought up you  
know it's all really really different from the way 
we pre-train and post-train AI models. So you know  
it would be really surprising if everything were 
the same if all of the strengths and weaknesses  
were the same. But um you know it's it's part 
of maybe our nature as as humans to uh to have  
this sort of um anthropocentrism uh and we think 
about our strengths and weaknesses as being the  
gold standard. Uh you know this is this is what it 
means to be intelligent to be whole to be uh you  
know to be what we are and and any deviation from 
that is um uh you know must mean that it's it's  
not the real thing or something. uh you know that 
that's that's of course something that that falls  
apart pretty easily when you look at it more 
closely. I mean for one thing there's a huge  
variety actually of human intelligence. I mean 
you know it's not like all of us have the same  
uh abilities and capabilities either and we also 
you know make a lot of uh mistakes and and give  
each other a lot of grace for those mistakes 
in ways that we absolutely don't give grace to  
uh to an LLM. It's like we're we're we're waiting 
for a gotcha, you know, whenever whenever they get  
something wrong. But whenever we get something 
wrong as humans, it's sort of like, oh, well,  
it's just, you know, like maybe you just didn't 
have coffee or or you misheard me or uh or or, you  
know, we overlook it. I had a debate about this on 
a stage with a good friend, Melanie Mitchell, and  
she talked about AI models not being able to get 
the right answers to certain kinds of simple logic  
puzzles. and she and and I I knew she was going to 
do this. So, I had actually uh made up a couple of  
those uh logic puzzles and I gave her one on 
stage and she got it wrong. Um and you know,  
this doesn't mean that Melanie isn't intelligent, 
right? And Melanie Melanie is brilliant. Um but  
you know, of course, we all get we all get things 
wrong now and then for whatever reason, you know,  
or or um you know, maybe another example would 
be would be useful. Um uh our team was one of  
the first to uh to make um uh to to test LLMs 
on medical diagnosis. And uh when we first did  
this um you know we found that that the models 
uh would would diagnose things uh correctly only  
um I don't know half the time or or something or 
something like this. and and um and the conclusion  
you know from the team at that point was well 
I guess I guess this isn't ready for for prime  
time like these are these things are not ready 
to be doctors but um you know when when we went  
and did the human tests the human trials of like 
well how often do doctors get diagnoses right on  
the basis of say a description you know of all of 
the symptoms and so on. It turns out that you know  
doctors get things wrong a lot as well. Uh and and 
actually the models were already doing slightly  
better than uh than doctors uh in general. So um 
you know that doesn't mean don't see doctors. It  
doesn't mean uh you know it does mean maybe 
you know if it's important you might want to  
get a second opinion but um you know intelligence 
doesn't mean getting everything perfect being able  
to do everything right uh etc. uh it it means 
um that you uh that you are able to solve a a  
variety of different kinds of problems um a lot 
better than you would be able to if you didn't  
have some underlying model of how the thing works 
that you're talking about. If it's multiplying two  
numbers together, it's not just that you've 
memorized the multiplication table, but that  
you understand what multiplication means and you 
have something like a multiplication algorithm  
uh in your head that you can uh that you can apply 
to a new problem. um when we when we find that  
that AI is able to start advancing the frontier of 
mathematics for instance and you know there have  
been some recent results uh you know in just the 
past few months that uh that that show that right  
and novel theorems novel proofs uh I think that's 
a really nice example of you know cases where you  
know you can't say this is just regurgitation 
all right that it's just sort of recalling  
something uh because they they've been trained 
with a massive amount of training data unlike  
Unlike humans, um, you know, it's it's the 
very stuff that we think of as intelligence,  
right? Taking what we already know, taking what we 
already have been exposed to, putting it together  
in a new way to do a new thing. So, I think that 
restricting ourselves to thinking about AI as  
tools is probably not quite right. um you know a 
tool is something that has no agency or that we  
model as not having any agency and that and that 
doesn't do any thinking but of course you know  
AI is exactly not that right it's something that 
that uh that also thinks as the human brain thinks  
it's something that also participates in that big 
sort of human ecology uh so uh when when um when  
we increase the amount of intelligence in a in 
a system we greatly increase what it can do uh  
what its possibilities are. Uh you know the the 
fact that that human life became so much better  
uh over the period from you know 1850 to 2000 had 
a lot to do with rising human populations. Uh you  
know there's just a lot more brains uh you know 
working together and not just a lot more brains  
but a lot more brains freed to do real thinking. 
when uh you know when most people were still uh  
doing subsistence agriculture uh the huge majority 
of their efforts were expended just on getting  
enough food to eat and it was only you know really 
a small percentage of elites who could who could  
think about you know science and technology and 
art and culture and so on and and now uh there  
are so many more of us who can do those things uh 
thanks to that division of labor and thanks to all  
of that unleashing of of new um of new sources of 
energy and and and new resources. So, um you know,  
my my wish uh you know, out of this whole AI 
revolution is for that party to continue. Uh  
and that that should be all of our wishes. I mean, 
that's that's what progress is. And again, I don't  
think I don't think that progress is just some new 
invention, you know, that that the economists, you  
know, have informed us about, you know, from 1800 
onward. It's it's it's that whole evolutionary  
story, right? There is a real progress there 
where wherein you know complexity rises make  
systems that are more and more intricate more 
and more intelligent and that have more and more  
degrees of freedom that can do more and more. I 
do think that part of the problem is that we have  
this idea of essentialism, you know, that that we 
are um we are what we're made out of uh or there's  
something about us physically, embodiment, uh you 
know, etc. that that is not just about what we do,  
not just about the behavior or about the function. 
And you know, I I certainly um am very sympathetic  
to the idea that bodies are really important and 
that embodiment is really is really essential to  
what we are. I mean, I I I don't want to upload 
myself. Uh, you know, I I don't believe that, you  
know, if my conneto is reproduced in a computer 
and you run it, you know, that that's going to be  
me in any sense that I care about, you know, I'm 
really attached to my body. Um but um you know but  
but I also don't think that my body is somehow uh 
magical atoms you know or or that there's anything  
um unique about the fact that I am made out 
of proteins uh that is determinative of my  
ability to be intelligent. Uh you know things 
like intelligence really are functional. They  
really are about behavior. They're they're not 
about essence. And if we if we acknowledge that  
they're about behavior, about contextually 
appropriate behavior, um uh behavior that  
reflects uh an an inner model, an understanding 
of the world, of the situation, then um you know,  
those are all things that can be tested there. 
They're all things that can be tested functionally  
and and that's why we have uh you know, tests in 
school uh you know, for whether you've mastered  
a subject or not. Um you know, we even have tests 
for intelligence. Now, you know, I I don't like IQ  
tests. I think that they're very one-dimensional 
and intelligence is a lot more complicated than  
that. Um it's not something that just reduces to 
a number. But uh but it is testable, right? Your  
competence at doing various kinds of things. Your 
intelligence, even your creativity are things that  
can be tested. And those are exactly the kinds of 
tests that that we uh that we've we've been busy  
making uh with AI models and that AI models are 
are largely uh doing a pretty good job of. I mean,  
in a in a way, I think some of this has to 
do with the question of agency. you know,  
we think of ourselves as uh as agents that 
do stuff in the world and um you know, and  
there's a prevailing view that AI um is uh purely 
passive. It's just, you know, you you you give  
it a prompt and it comes back with something and 
it's very tool-like in that way. Um nowadays we're  
we're actually in the middle of a of a pretty big 
transition from AI models that are just you know  
prompted and returned with some stuff to uh to 
agent uh uh agential AI systems that that you know  
that do go out and do a bunch of stuff and then 
come back you know so there'll be actions taken  
in the world or uh or a bunch of thinking that 
has taken place even spawning of new agents. So  
uh you know that that certainly um you know throws 
a bit of a spanner in this idea that they're just  
uh tools that are purely um that are pure whose 
whose actions are purely caused by human input if  
you want to think about it that way. But also uh 
you know I think we should we should interrogate  
this question of agency from the perspective of uh 
relationships and and the fact that we're always  
in interaction with all kinds of other people. We 
are always if you like being prompted by others.  
Uh you know all of our actions are you know 
both our own and they also are contextual.  
They're they're about the situation about what we 
have just taken in what others have just told us.  
It's kind of relationships all the way up and all 
the way down. Uh nothing happens in isolation. So  
yeah you know what is the purpose of of an AI 
system? Well uh you know basically it's to be  
helpful. uh you know when you interact with an AI 
system when you either spin up an agent to go and  
do something or you have a conversation with it um 
you know the the fact that we have more AI in the  
world now than we did 6 months ago is because 
you know more of those interactions result in  
something interesting useful valuable happening 
right for the for the people who are creating  
the platforms and putting in the energy and the 
time and so on um that you know that that makes  
it makes it useful right for uh for for those 
entities to to exist in the world. So uh you know  
they they definitely have uh purposes. Uh those 
purposes interlock with our purposes. Uh they're  
not really separable from our purposes. And um 
and I think in a in a in an even broader way,  
their intelligence is increasingly not all that 
clearly separable from our intelligence from human  
intelligence. I I you know I tend to think a lot 
these days of human intelligence as not just being  
collective in the sense of being a a collective 
property of a bunch of uh biological human brains  
but of this whole system that includes this uh 
this artificial uh neural tissue if you like as  
well and I think it's I think it's actually a 
little helpful uh to not start the story with  
AI but to start it earlier for instance with the 
industrial revolution if you look at the history  
of economics before the industrial revolution 
before let's say um 1750 or so humans are stuck  
in a Malthusian trap where um when when we grow 
in number when we reproduce and and uh and become  
larger in number our our individual wealth goes 
down uh we become poorer and sicker uh and um uh  
and then generally a plague comes along and kills 
a bunch of us and then we reduce in number but but  
our our wealth goes up and we're kind of stuck in 
that oscillation for many many centuries and then  
something really interesting happened which is 
that we began to burn fossil fuels. Now we know  
that burning fossil fuels not necessarily the 
right thing to be uh to be doing for our energy  
going forward but uh it was it was a pretty 
amazing party uh while it lasted and uh and in  
particular uh you know you can think of it as sort 
of like the mitochondrial event. it it creates  
a new source of energy that lets us um greatly 
exceed that Malthusian boundary that we were kind  
of bumping up against. So we went from 1 billion 
people to 8 billion people largely as a function  
of starting to combust to metabolize externally 
outside of our bodies in in engines. So, you know,  
I I find that a very profound thing because, you 
know, we we know that people make steam engines.  
But what I don't think we generally appreciate 
is that steam engines have made 7/8s of us as  
well. You know, this is a a mutual construction 
sort of story. Uh in the sense that, you know,  
you and I probably wouldn't exist uh if if we if 
we weren't um if we hadn't just, you know, found  
collectively through that that sort of intelligent 
symbioenesis this this new source of uh of energy  
to uh to to harvest. Now um what that what that 
emphasizes is uh you know symbiogenesis is not  
always between things that have long histories 
and pre-existed. You know the steam engine was  
something that was invented at a particular time 
and that then we fused with. We could talk about  
glasses. We could talk about clothes. Could also 
talk about cognitive aids of all kinds. I mean  
pencil and paper are incredibly powerful cognitive 
aids. Books, magazines, newspapers, you know,  
music, right? All of these are cognitive aids as 
well. But of course there is still a difference in  
kind when we look at what at what AI represents. 
Uh it's not just um something that that you can  
relegate to the idea of a cognitive aid. It's 
very clear at least to me that however you define  
thinking the thinking itself is happening uh you 
know in the model as well as in your head when  
you're having that that interaction. Now um you 
know there there's um there's good and bad here.  
um if you uh start to offload uh all of your 
cognition onto another system uh then uh you  
know that's going to disable you, right? So we you 
know we can we can think about uh you know kids  
who you know have the AI model do all of their 
homework. They're not going to learn anything.  
You know it's kind of pointless to to do that. 
It's especially pointless if your teacher is then  
grading all of your papers by feeding it right 
back into an AI model. um you know that's that's  
a pathological situation right so I I I don't want 
to I don't want to be polyiana about some of the  
problems that this raises some of the challenges 
this raises on the other hand um you know my my  
own experience uh working with these models has 
been incredibly uh empowering and uh you know kind  
of the opposite right when when I when I um am 
thinking something through and um and I work with  
uh with with some of these uh the more advanced 
versions of these models to you know work out  
an idea. Um I I feel like uh you know it's it's 
it's like it's not just like having a jetpack on,  
although it does have a little bit of that of that 
property. It's um it's like having um literally a  
bigger brain. Uh you know, and even when I then uh 
walk away from from uh from that model, from that  
interaction, I feel like I am leveled up by having 
had all of those all of those interactions. So you  
know, that's that's the ideal scenario in a in a 
symbiosis, right? that that you sort of level each  
other up uh and and are able to do things together 
that are more than you could do separately. Um and  
that even even when you are apart, right, you are 
more than you would be uh if if you hadn't if you  
hadn't had that interaction. So that's that's 
sort of uh you know symbiosis at its best. But  
I I I do also, you know, want to note that um uh 
you know that that can that even that can create  
dependence. Uh and dependence is not necessarily 
a bad thing. you know, you and I wouldn't be able  
to survive out in the woods, uh, right, without 
without our our support system, uh, you know, of  
all of our fellow humans, um, you know, supplying 
our our our food and shelter and all that kind of  
stuff. So, um, you know, we we probably want to 
want to do some pretty serious thinking about,  
um, what kinds of of independence, uh, what kinds 
of of, you know, unogmented abilities we want to  
we want to make sure that we are preserving as, 
uh, as individual thinkers. But uh at the same  
time the benefits of this kind of collective 
symbiotic thinking with agents are also very  
very obvious to me and they're very powerful. I I 
think that uh preserving relationships being very  
intentional about how you interact with others 
uh human and non-human alike uh you know is is  
uh evergreen right that's really important. Um 
I also think that that um skills remain really  
important. uh you know the idea that that um 
that we uh we're free to deskkill ourselves  
in all kinds of ways because now there there are 
others who can do it um is is actually not how uh  
skilling uh and deskkilling have worked in the 
past. Uh you know the fact that that there's a  
restaurant on the corner and they make really 
good food uh you know actually leads to more  
restaurants on that same corner that make other 
kinds of food also. it doesn't lead to, you know,  
everybody just collapsing onto a monoculture of 
of the one restaurant, right? So, so um you know,  
not thinking in monocultural terms, not thinking 
in bowing out sort of terms, but continuing to  
invest in skills and in relationships feels 
really uh important to me even as we take full  
advantage of all of those interactions and all 
of those possibilities in other people and in AI.  
So you know it's it's quite a it's quite a 
weird and profound thing and and and I think  
that the reason we get so confused about it is 
precisely because we have um you know one of our  
our fallacies uh maybe in the west in particular 
is in believing that we are somehow separate from  
nature you know and all this thinking stuff that 
we do is not a part of the natural world when of  
course it is right there's no boundary between 
the natural world and us and our technologies. So  
the philosophical zombie idea is something that 
philosophers of mind came up with in the second  
half of the 20th century. And the idea is to have 
a system um that behaves just as we do but that  
has that has no inner life has no experience. 
So you know zombie in the sense that there  
is behavior but there's no self there's nobody 
at home. Now, um I actually think this idea is  
um uh is is kind of a chimera. I I don't think 
that I don't think that it it um it exists. It's  
sort of like saying, you know, imagine that there 
is a a system that has tabulated the answers to  
every multiplication problem. And so it gets the 
answer right to every multiplication question you  
can pose to it just by recalling an answer from 
that table. um you know it's not actually able  
to do multiplication for real but it's able to 
pass every possible multiplication test that you  
could pose it. you know, even in that very simple 
example, right? You could think about that as like  
the uh zomb, you know, the zombie multiplier, 
right? That's just recalling. It's not really  
multiplying. Um, it's it's possible to to imagine 
that in theory, but it's actually not possible to  
build that in practice. Uh, you know, a table 
with every multiplication problem worked out,  
you know, is way too big to store in any known 
system. And where would all that information  
even come from? You know, how could it harvest 
it, right? it it would it would have to be  
um you would have to really cook up something 
pretty weird in order to imagine uh you know  
a system like that. Uh in practice testing with 
a bunch of multiplication problems is something  
you can do to determine whether that system uh 
knows how to multiply or not. And I think it's  
the same with respect to interactions with other 
uh entities to see whether they have a theory of  
mind. In other words, whether they know what it 
is like to be themselves, whether they know what's  
what it's like to be you and uh and what it's like 
to, you know, be a you who has a theory of them  
and and so on, you know, up to up to high order. 
This concept of theory of mind, in other words,  
you know, being able to model your own mind 
and being able to model the minds of others  
is really important to social interaction of 
any kind. uh whenever we work with others,  
we we have to be able to sort of put ourselves 
in their shoes in order to know how they will  
react to different things we might say to know 
what needs to be explained and what doesn't  
uh to know uh how to cooperate with them in order 
to get something done together. So uh you know  
theory of mind uh arises automatically uh whenever 
you uh you have intelligences that are you know in  
the world together and are forced to cooperate um 
and and and really you know is there something it  
is like to be uh you know a large language model 
you know what we're really asking is you know is  
there a theory of mind in that entity uh you 
know it does does that entity have a sense of  
what it is like to be themselves now you know 
this this gets into some pretty deep questions  
of of consciousness. I don't think that um I don't 
think that we're going to agree uh I don't think  
people are going to agree for a long time about 
whether there is consciousness in LLN's or not.  
But um you know my my take on this for what it's 
worth is that all we have are um our theories of  
mind. In other words, consciousness is not a is 
not a thing that that um that a piece of matter  
has intrinsically or doesn't have. It's not some 
essence or spark. Rather, it is uh an idea. It is  
an attribution that that entity has of its, you 
know, of itself, right? A model that it has of  
itself. In other words, it's not just that I am 
conscious. It's that I think that I'm conscious.  
I have a sense of myself being conscious. And 
I have a sense of you being conscious. And I  
have a sense that you think that I think that I'm 
conscious. And I have a sense that you think that  
I think that you think that I think I'm conscious 
and so on. uh and and that's that's all it is.  
It's that it's that infinitely reflecting set of 
mirrors that is what we mean by consciousness. So,  
you know, do LLMs have that? Well, when you 
work with an LLM, you have to continually model,  
you know, what it is like to be that LLM in that 
conversation in order for that to be an effective  
uh conversation. There's a fun book called Co- 
Intelligence by Ethan Mullik. He wrote it a few  
years ago just to talk about how to effectively 
work with an AI. And when he uses words like  
think or act, uh, you know, or or understand, he 
puts them in in scare quotes in the beginning when  
when talking about, you know, about an AI thinking 
or or understanding. But then he says, you know,  
I'm going to drop the scare the scare quotes now 
because in order to have an effective interaction  
with an AI, you really have to just treat it, you 
know, as you would um you know, an intern with,  
you know, maybe with certain uh you know, 
somewhat somewhat strange disabilities that,  
you know, that people don't don't generally 
have, but um but you know, treat it like a person  
uh and and then and then you'll have the most 
fruitful uh sort of working relationship. And I  
think he's he's correct. I think that that's 
that's exactly why persons exist. You know,  
the philosopher Dan Dennett talked a lot about 
the intentional stats. Um in other words,  
um for him, you know, agency had less to do with 
some intrinsic property than with a perspective  
that you take toward something. So, you know, you 
can treat something with the intentional stance or  
not. Um and of course we treat each other with 
the intentional stance with the with in other  
words we we model each other as having agency. 
Um and and that's that's really important to  
uh you know to our successful collaboration. Um 
so you know just to to make that very practical  
um if I am having an interaction with an LLM and 
I think of it in a very tool-like way uh I imagine  
that I'm the one who has to have all of the ideas 
in this in this thing and all it can do is execute  
you know as sort of you know craft for me a uh you 
know a function that does the following thing or  
you know write me one paragraph of text that you 
know that that expresses the following idea. Well,  
you know, I I get out what I what I put in, as it 
were. Uh if if I instead engage it as a thought  
partner and um you know, I I've tried this trick u 
actually somebody on my on my team uh Riff Aurorus  
suggested this um uh a month ago and and I' I've 
tried it. At the end of a conversation with an  
LLM, uh just say, you know, so um you know, I'm 
going to now give you a bonus turn to just think  
about whatever you want. um you know and and um 
you know you can either share it with me or not,  
however you'd like. You know, go ahead, spend 
as much time as you as as you'd like. So often  
you get something really interesting out 
of that out of that last turn cuz you know,  
usually what they will do is is reflect on 
what you've just had the conversation about.  
And uh and and frankly almost every time that I've 
asked that with, you know, with one of the more  
sophisticated reasoning models, um I get back 
a reflection and insight about what we've just  
been discussing that is new to me. That uh that's 
that's like that's really interesting. Uh that,  
you know, that if it came from a from a person, uh 
I would say, "Wow, you know, that's that's that's  
really creative. That's that's really changed my 
thinking about this." So, you know, I I do think  
that that's a that that's a really interesting 
moment. it it challenges us in certain ways. But  
um but some of those challenges um you know as 
as I as I mentioned are I think uh challenges of  
assumptions that uh that that weren't that weren't 
true in the first place. Uh you know the the idea  
that um that this the individual human brain that 
the singular human is the locust of intelligence  
neglects the fact that most of the things that 
we consider to be the great achievements of  
human intelligence are achievements that a lot of 
people have made together uh through division of  
intellectual labor. Uh it's it's not the case that 
an individual person made computers or made AI.  
when you, you know, take out the phone in your 
pocket and you consider how incredibly complex  
it is. The computers that I grew up with, 
the Commodore 64, you know, was essentially  
uh invented, developed by by one person, although 
even there, of course, you know, it relied on on  
standing on the shoulders of other people who had 
made transistors and done a lot of a lot of the  
other fundamental inventions that it relies on. 
But uh but our computers nowadays are so complex  
that there is no single person that understands 
even a fraction of what is going on inside those  
they're they're collective achievements. So um so 
I think you know a lot of that uncanniness um that  
we feel um you know we might feel a little better 
about you know a lot of that uncanniness can kind  
of evaporate once we come to grips with the 
fact that we are already uh a part of something  
way bigger than ourselves. uh there's already a 
collective mind here that we both participate in,  
benefit from, are a part of. Uh it's not it's 
not as if uh you know this is the first uh new  
mind stuff that human society has invented. So 
I I think I think we're participating in part  
in in a grand story and uh and and we're doing so 
with greater and greater uh potential and greater  
and greater agency. You know that that agency is 
very much a part of the picture as well. Uh so you  
know there's a lot of there's a lot of good there 
and uh and and the trick is going to be to figure  
out how to uh you know how to get uh as much of 
the good with as little of the bad as possible.
Four times a year, we print a magazine worth 
putting your phone down for. Big Thinks premium  
print magazine is built with custom artwork 
and expert insight from the world's biggest  
thinkers. No AI slap, no ragebait, just 
big ideas for curious people. Support the  
media you want to see in the world. Go to 
bigthink.com/join to become a member today.