 Hey folks, this is a channel update video, so
 if you're not interested in that, feel free
 to click away and hopefully come back for some
 future video that
 hopefully you'll find that more interesting.
 First off, I need to let the channel members
 know that YouTube is mad at me for some reason
 and has disabled my channel memberships.
 Not sure what's going on.
 YouTube says my AdSense account is suspended,
 but my AdSense dashboard says everything is
 fine.
 The result of that though is I can't make
 videos just for members anymore to let you
 folks know what's going on.
 Also, please forgive me if this video is a
 little rougher than normal.
 I fast-tracked as soon as I found out I couldn't
 let my members know that my access to memberships
 have been suspended.
 I'm not asking for help to fix it, I'm not
 asking for sympathy, it'll probably get
 fixed eventually, but it's not at the end of
 the world.
 My total earnings from YouTube for all of 2025
 was less than 6 grand, so I'm definitely
 not making videos for the money.
 And to be honest, I'm not a good fit for the
 whole advertising ecosystem anyway.
 Google is an Advertising Technology and an AI
 company, and the more I push back on AI
 hype and the more I talk about the problems
 with AdTech, the more likely I am to get kicked
 out of the rewards program anyway, which might
 have actually been what caused this,
 but right now I haven't a clue.
 I do hope that I don't get completely kicked
 off the platform though.
 There aren't very many of us that are trying to
 make content that tries to be realistic
 about the pros and cons of AI and big tech right
 now.
 Most everybody is either 100% all-in hype or
 100% "this stuff is useless".
 Just in case though, I've created a free
 Patreon link below, and I have a free
 newsletter
 I've had for a while that you can subscribe to
 the link below for that,
 So I'll have some way of trying to get my message
 out in the event that YouTube gets even more
 mad at me.
 Full disclosure though, I haven't published
 anything to the newsletter in a few months,
 although with how YouTube is acting up right now
 that certainly bumps that up in priority.
 I don't really want to be an ad-fueled creator
 anyway though.
 I don't like the impact that Advertising
 Technology is having on society, and I don't
 really
 want to contribute to that problem.
 It's a rough time to be a developer right now,
 although it's still not as bad as the
 dot-com crash, and I expect that when the AI
 bubble pops, it's going to get a lot worse
 for a while before it gets better. I really
 want to try to help with that.
 I've been talking for a year or so now about
 creating a class for developers to figure
 out how to start their own business.
 Believe it or not, I actually really have been
 working on that.
 I got sidetracked into a dead end rip-off and
 lost quite a bit of time, made a video
 on that one, but I have been working on it, and
 I even have an outline of it ready, and
 I would love to get your feedback about it.
 Let me first tell you what the class is not, so
 those of you that aren't interested can
 not waste any more of your time.
 The first, let me start with a quick, free
 piece of advice that far too few people
 understand.
 When you're building things, it's vitally
 important to first solve the smallest version
 of the problem that you can, get that out in
 the world and running, and then build upon
 that success. Biting off any more than the
 minimum that you can greatly reduces your
 chance of succeeding.
 This is true for building a software product,
 and it's also true for building a software
 curriculum, so I'm starting with a specific
 audience, and then, once I get that working,
 I'm going to expand on that, which means that
 some of you unfortunately won't be in
 the first audience, and I'm sorry about that.
 So first off, this class isn't going to teach
 programming itself.
 If you're not already comfortable programming,
 this isn't going to help you, and this isn't
 going to be a programming with AI class either,
 although I'll talk about AI at some level.
 More about that later in the video.
 Secondly, this class is, at least to start with,
 not for early career people that haven't spent
 a couple of years at least working in the
 industry already.
 If you just got out of school or you're just
 out of a bootcamp or something and you're
 looking for a job, unfortunately, this isn't
 for you.
 That said, once I get this class running and I
 feel like it's been useful to people, then
 I intend to make an extended version of that
 class that's intended for early career people.
 But right now, if I try to make a class both
 about being an independent software creator
 and a class about entering the programming
 workforce at the same time, I wouldn't do
 a good job of either.
 Once I'm confident I figured out what the later
 career folks need, then I can add the
 other stuff on top of that, but trying to do
 all of that at once is a recipe for failure.
 So next, I can only teach what I know, which
 means I can only teach in English, and I don't
 know any other languages well enough to teach
 in them.
 I can only talk about business issues from
 inside the United States because that's where
 I am.
 I'm not going to stop you from taking the class
 if you're outside the U.S., but I'm
 not going to be able to help you with the way
 that things work outside the U.S.
 I haven't worked in the video game industry, so
 I can't help with that.
 I'm not a lawyer, an accountant, or a financial
 advisor.
 I can't give you legal or financial advice.
 I can and will tell you what I have done and
 what has worked for me and what hasn't
 worked for me.
 And I'll recommend books from experts outside
 my field for things like legal issues.
 If you choose to take advice from those books,
 then that's up to you.
 Next, I want to be clear that this isn't a get-rich-quick
 thing.
 Being on your own is not the easiest path.
 I've done it on and off for 20 years or so.
 There are times I like it.
 There are times I don't want to deal with it,
 and I just take a normal job, and there
 are times that I don't want to do my own thing
 at all, but I have to because I just don't
 have the option of being an employee for one
 reason or other.
 I will tell you that building and running your
 own product will absolutely make you a
 better programmer, and it will give you an
 opportunity to learn skills that are hard to
 acquire otherwise.
 I will also tell you that once you've learned
 how to build your own business, you can always
 do that again if you need to later in your
 career, so it's a great tool to have
 in your toolbox. But if you're looking for an
 easy way to make money, this isn't it.
 Next I want you to know that, at least during
 the lectures, I'm going to try to focus on
 higher level, more evergreen content rather
 than getting in the weeds of what's going
 on in the current moment.
 For example, I'll be talking about AI off and
 on, but I'll primarily be talking about
 AI in the context of how to evaluate and use
 programming productivity tools, whether they're
 AI or other things.
 The goal here is to teach you how to navigate
 the industry as technology changes, not teach
 you exactly how to use claude code versus 4.5 or
 whatever.
 That way next month when the new Gemini or the
 new chatGPT or the new thing past
 LLMs comes out, and it's way better than what
 we've got now, what you learn in class won't
 be outdated immediately.
 I'll talk about how I'm using AI, of course, if
 people want, and I'll answer whatever questions
 people have to the best of my ability.
 Sometimes that might mean I have to go off and
 do some research and come back to you.
 If so, I will.
 Even if those questions are down in the weeds,
 but I'm going to try to answer as many of
 the questions as I can in as widely an
 applicable manner as I can and as an evergreen
 content
 as I can.
 So hopefully this is a class that will teach
 you things that will serve you for the rest
 of your career, not just for the next year or
 two.
 That's the hope at least.
 Lastly, this first class is only for folks that
 are actively planning on working on a
 project kind of as we go.
 I don't need you to be working on it full-time,
 I don't expect you to be done by the time
 the class is over, but I need feedback on the
 class as I teach it.
 So if you only want to take the class passively
 and not try to apply any of it during the
 weeks that the class is being taught, I'd ask
 that you wait to take the class until
 after I've gotten and incorporated the feedback
 from the first set of people taking it.
 Okay, so let's talk about the class structure.
 My current plan is for a six to eight, maybe a
 little more week class.
 I'm planning on six, but I'm expecting that as
 I get feedback from people in the classes
 I go, I'll end up realizing that there are
 things that I assumed most people would know,
 but that need to be part of the class.
 And I expect I'll adjust the curriculum as we
 go.
 It might be things I need to go deeper in, we'll
 just see.
 That might stretch the class out to eight weeks
 or maybe even more.
 I'm planning on two mostly identical hour-ish
 long class sessions each week at two different
 times, probably one during the workday and one
 on the weekend or on an evening.
 Students can attend either session or both, and
 the classes will all be recorded, they
 will be made available to all the people taking
 the class.
 So you can refer back to what happened in the
 class after it's over, or you can watch
 another session of the class, or you can catch
 up in the event that something prevented you
 from attending class that week.
 I'm also planning on having two sessions of
 office hours or open Q&A each week.
 They'll be scheduled beforehand, again,
 probably one during business hours and one on
 an evening
 or a weekend.
 They'll be free form.
 I'll do my best to answer whatever questions
 anyone has, whether they're directly related
 to the curriculum or not.
 Again, they'll be recorded for any student to
 watch that once too.
 There's going to be a community chat forum
 service thing where folks can talk amongst
 each other and ask me questions.
 It won't be discord.
 I don't like discord.
 It'll be a dedicated online learning platform.
 I'm kind of leaning towards Circle.SO at the
 moment, but that hasn't been finalized yet.
 The community will continue after the class is
 complete, and I plan on continuing to hold
 office hours in Q&A after the classes
 themselves are all done, at least for as long
 as people
 are still showing up to the Q&A's with
 questions.
 There will be a single up front charge for the
 class, which also grants access to the
 online community.
 There will be a process where, as you don't
 think the class is worth it, you can get your
 money refunded, except for whatever financial
 transaction fees were extracted by the payment
 network company.
 I want this to be useful to people, and I don't
 want you to feel like you're being ripped
 off.
 And if you're not getting anything out of it, I
 don't want you to feel like I took your
 money for something that you don't want.
 I don't know what the cost is going to be.
 That will be set after I've had a chance to
 talk with some of you - more on that in a minute.
 But I'll put the cost out before the class
 starts so everybody will know what they're
 signing up for.
 Okay.
 So let's talk about what's in the class.
 Note that this is a draft in a subject to reordering
 additions, et cetera, although everything
 in these sessions will be in the class, the
 grouping might be rearranged, or it might
 change.
 I might get other topics added.
 It's possible, especially after people ask
 questions, that some of these topics might
 get expanded beyond the length of the session
 for that week, in which case things will need
 to get rearranged, potentially with the
 addition of another week of sessions to the
 schedule.
 Session one is about career planning, riding
 the waves of technology changes, how to decide
 when it's better time to be an employee or a
 consultant or a small software service provider,
 and why.
 How to survive as technology changes, how to
 decide what kind of business is a good fit
 for you, how to pick an idea and decide what
 you want to build, at least what you want to
 build first.
 Session two is on specifying and deciding on a
 minimum viable product, how to think about
 subscriptions, free versions, paid versions,
 tiers, upselling, all that kind of stuff.
 And three is about getting an MVP up and
 running, so picking programming languages,
 framework,
 security, continuous integration, continuous
 delivery, cloud providers, user databases,
 encryption, front end, back end, databases,
 batch processing, compute server, controlling
 costs, all that kind of stuff.
 Session four is about necessary customer-facing
 collateral, so domain names, marketing,
 websites,
 gauging interest, social media, A/B testing,
 finding your audience, customer service, all
 that kind of stuff.
 And five is about business and behind-the-scenes
 work, so finances, basic accounting, basic
 taxes, basic corporate structures, window-engaged
 professionals like lawyers' accountants, that
 kind of thing.
 And then session six is about expanding and
 scaling tech stuff, automating testing, logging,
 debugging troubleshooting, building for
 maintainability, monitoring, failing gracefully,
 adding new
 features, pivoting product direction as things
 change, that kind of stuff.
 Note that not everything you might possibly
 want to know about these topics can be covered
 in the time allotted, this isn't a coding bootcamp.
 In class, I'm going to be covering the lessons
 I learned the hard way, the things that fit
 in the gaps between the other resources.
 For things that are more straightforward, I'll
 be recommending other resources, books,
 videos, that kind of thing.
 So for example, when I talk about data storage
 in class, I'll talk about the pros and cons
 of SQL databases, object databases, direct
 serialization, file storage retrieval, object
 relational mappers, caching, et cetera.
 And I'll answer any questions folks have, but
 instead of trying to teach SQL itself,
 I'm going to point you at a Joe Celko book, I'll
 probably talk about pros and cons of
 programming in Go, Rust, Python, TypeScript, et
 cetera, but when it comes to questions
 about how to use those particular languages,
 then I'll expect you to make use of books
 and tutorials and stuff outside of class.
 I'll answer questions if you have them, but I'm
 not going to do tutorials on every single
 language.
 And I expect that pretty much everybody is
 going to have their own unique little version
 of the combination of frameworks and languages
 and cloud hosts and all that kind of stuff.
 Okay.
 So if that doesn't sound like something you're
 interested in, thanks for watching this far.
 But if it does sound like something you'd be
 interested in, I'd like to hear from you
 because I'm only assuming this is a class that
 people would find valuable and that creating
 and teaching it would be worth the effort.
 And before I commit to the time, it's going to
 take to do it, I need to find out if that
 assumption is correct.
 So if this is the kind of class you'd
 potentially be interested in, I would
 appreciate it if
 you'd go to this link on the screen or down
 below, fill out a form, let me know what you
 think about the description I just gave you.
 The things I want to know the most are how much
 do you think such a class would be worth
 to you? is there anything you think that you'd
 want to learn such a class that's missing
 from what I described in the video?
 Is there anything I described as being in the
 class that you think doesn't belong?
 Is there anything in the description that's
 unclear or there are other questions or
 feedback
 that you have?
 At the end of the survey, if you have other
 feedback, there will place where you can type
 stuff in, and if you wish, you can even
 schedule a free Zoom call with me to discuss it
 further.
 So thanks for watching this far.
 I hope to hear from you.
 Let's be careful out there.
 Take care.