Far-right hero and thorn in the side of the 
EU, Viktor Orbán just lost big in Hungary.  
Yet Hungary's economy is in the drain and Orbán 's 
ultra-wealthy friends still control the judiciary  
and the media. So what's next for Hungary? Can 
Péter Magyar purge the illiberal deep state Orbán  
left behind? And can he save Hungary's economy? 
Or will he just be like Macron or Trudeau,  
a disappointing reformer? Or perhaps even like 
Putin or Erdogan, a promised liberal reformer  
who is actually just the next strongman. To 
answer these questions, we need to do a quick  
recap of how Orbán lost. Most political analysts 
believe that Orbán lost primarily for two reasons.  
First, after initially bringing unemployment down 
by a lot after getting elected in 2010, Hungary's  
economy under Orbán has performed quite a bit 
worse than comparable East European economies.  
For example, Hungarian wages have stayed far 
behind comparable countries such as, for example,  
Poland, but also many other countries in the EU 
since 2008. What's worse, after a massive COVID  
spending spree, a rise in energy prices, and the 
depreciation of the Forint, Hungaria suffered the  
worst inflation crisis in all of Europe under 
Orban. The second reason analysts often mention  
is that the scale of corruption under Orban was 
just getting too much. For example, Orban's rich  
friends, such as his childhood friend, and I 
hope I pronounce it correctly, Lőrinc Mészáros,  
who just so happens to have become Hungary's 
richest man since meeting Orban, have won up to  
25% of all state contracts, coincidentally, in the 
years after Orban was elected. But the thing is,  
it's easy to accept corruption if everyone is 
getting richer. But if the economy is stagnating,  
if inflation is eating away at people's salaries, 
then too blatant corruption can really tick off  
your voters. So ticked off in fact that despite 
spending years to rig the political system in  
his favor by changing voting districts and 
despite controlling Hungary's entire traditional  
media landscape like radio and TV, Orban's 
government had just gotten so blatantly bad  
at his job and so blatantly corrupt that it did 
not matter anymore. His far-right Fidesz party,  
which used to have a super majority in 2022, now 
lost badly to the conservative Péter Magyar and  
his Tisza party. The only other party that cleared 
the 5% voting threshold to get into parliament  
was the far-right Mi Hazank party. And for us, 
it's just Orban and Peter Maguar. And that's a  
real problem for Orban because he had manipulated 
the voting system in such a way that it benefited  
the biggest party even more than it always did. 
And this is how with just 44.87% of the vote.  
Orban got a so-called supermaajority in 2014 which 
allowed them to rewrite the constitution to give  
both his party more power and to enrich themselves 
and to entrench themselves by creating a massive  
deep state of Fidesz loyalists which could only be 
removed by a super majority such as the president  
who can refer any bill to be approved by the 
constitutional court which consists of not one  
not two but 15 Fidesz loyalists. The next part of 
the deep state is the so-called fiscal council,  
which could nuke any new government budget at any 
moment. Fourth, there is the prosecutor general,  
who can choose to try to prosecute Tisza officials 
while protecting Fidesz oligarchs. And finally,  
element number five, there is the media authority, 
which ensures the media remains loyal to Orban.  
These deep state defenses were why it was 
so important that Magyar not just won,  
but rather that he won by a landslide. And 
ironically, Hungary's unfair electoral system  
that benefits the biggest party helped him 
to do it, turning 53% of the vote into the  
two-thirds supermajority that he needs 
to dismantle most of these elements of  
Orbán's deep state. At least in theory. Because 
honestly, this is also where expectations need to  
be realistic. These institutions are not empty 
shells. You're dealing with people, networks,  
and incentives built over 16 years of Orban rule. 
Replacing laws is fast. Changing how the system  
actually behaves is much slower. So, this is a 
turning point, but it's the start of a process,  
not the end. On top of that, while Orban probably 
did not expect to lose by this much, he still left  
behind some more insurance by privatizing major 
parts of the state into independent trusts and  
institutions controlled by Fidesz loyalists 
such as the Foundation for Hungarian Culture,  
several university trusts, and the state oil 
giant MOL New Europe Foundation. So there's  
the NGO and trust part of his defense, and then 
there's also the second part of his defense,  
which is that Fidesz oligarchs still control some 
of Hungary's biggest corporations, such as the  
massive MBH bank and 4IG Telecom group. So even 
if Magyar and his two-thirds majority is able to  
purge the official government, he still inherits 
a government that is much weaker than the one that  
Orban inherited in 2010. And this is important 
because Hungary's economy is a mess. Specifically,  
it's still one of Europe's poorest countries with 
despite Orban spending about 5% of GDP on boosting  
fertility rates. And it seemed to work initially. 
Now fertility has fallen back to its all-time low  
levels, far below replacement rates. And combined 
with Orban's ultra strict immigration policies,  
it means that Hungary's population is steadily 
falling while those of neighboring countries  
are rising. Combine this spending with what many 
have argued was essentially vote buying, and it's  
no surprise that Hungary's government deficit is 
one of the worst in the EU. While inflation and  
borrowing costs are some of the highest in the 
EU. So other than cutting corruption, which we  
have discussed will be quite difficult. Magar's 
government is simply starting from a very weak  
position when it comes to the economy. But on the 
bright side, promising to restore the rule of law  
will gradually unlock about 22 billion euros in EU 
funding. So, not surprisingly, Hungary's currency  
the Forint has rallied on the news that Péter 
Magyar won. So all in all, to answer our question,  
what's next for Hungary? Their new prime minister, 
Péter Magyar, has a supermajority he needs to  
begin the difficult process of dismantling 
Orbán's deep state. Yet Orban has built some  
pretty impressive defenses to defend his oligarch 
friends. And on top of that, a severely weakened  
Hungarian government is borrowing like crazy 
while the economy is stagnant and people are  
leaving the country in droves. That's really 
not an easy situation to come back from. Yet,  
when it comes to liberals, especially in the EU, 
they are hopeful. Hopeful that Magyar has signaled  
that he'd break with Orban's policy of aligning 
himself with the people who want to see the EU  
gone. Like both Trump and Putin who wanted him to 
win this election. EU Liberals are hopeful that  
Hungary will stop blocking Ukraine. Hopeful that 
Hungary's democratic backsliding will be reverted,  
that the EU will remain a collective of not just 
free democracies, which Hungary clearly was,  
given that Orban lost by a landslide, but more so 
that the EU will now be a collective of free and  
fair democracies, where the media is independent 
from the ruling party, and where judges are  
independent. In summary, they hope the EU will 
again be a collective of liberal democracies,  
free plus fair. But whether or not that will 
be the case will not just be a matter of how  
easy Orban's deep state can be dismantled. It will 
not just be a matter of whether or not the economy  
can be saved. It will also be a matter of what 
Péter Magyar wants. because he can say that he  
wants to stop democratic backsliding, but I think 
it's important to keep in mind that Orban himself  
started out as a liberal. Erdogan in Turkey 
started out as a pro-EU democracy reformer. Heck,  
even Vladimir Putin started out as a reformer whom 
EU countries were quite hopeful about. Peter Mar  
is a staunch conservative that started out as an 
urban ally. So, will the Orban deep state truly  
be dismantled or will he just take it over? Time 
will tell. And in the meantime, if you want to  
dig deeper, I highly recommend that you check out 
the excellent analysis by our advertising sponsor,  
The Economist, which I always check out for the 
research process of my videos. For this episode  
in particular, I highly recommend that you start 
with their analysis on how opposition movements  
all around the world can learn from Hungary's 
experience and then follow up with this article  
about how Orban's government has perfected 
spreading its populist ideology to the wider  
world. And then finally, I recommend you check out 
their podcast episode on how Hungary's opposition  
leader Péter Magyar became so successful. I think 
as these examples show, The Economist delivers  
insight that can help you see the bigger picture 
and think for yourself. This is why I almost  
always rely on their analysis for my research and 
it is why I highly recommend that you subscribe.  
I'm excited to say that they're offering a special 
35% discount for money and macro viewers right  
now. And whether you prefer their daily journalism 
in the Economist app or you're like me and enjoy  
catching up on the global economy over the weekend 
with a nice cup of coffee and the print edition,  
you'll always stay on top of the latest 
global developments and support journalism  
that values factual information, integrity, and 
an independent point of view. So don't miss out.  
Click the link in the description below 
or head over to economist.com/moneymro
to claim your exclusive 35% discount date.