My name is Tim Spector. I'm an MD. I'm 
a professor of epidemiology at King's  
College in London and I'm also co-founder 
of the nutrition and gut health company,  
ZOE. Today on Big Think, I'm going to talk 
about the connection between what's going on  
in your gut and your gut microbes and how that 
affects your brain and your mental health. I'll  
also be giving you tips about how you can improve 
your gut health to improve your overall health.
Chapter one, how the gut microbiome works.
The gut microbiome I like to think of as as 
it's like a virtual organ in our bodies that  
we've only recently discovered. Something like 
discovering we had a liver. And essentially,  
it's made up of trillions of little tiny microbes 
that you need a microscope to see. bacteria,  
fungi, parasites, viruses, and other things we 
still don't exactly know about. This collection  
forms a community mainly inside the lower part of 
our colon, the large intestine. They essentially  
need to be thought of as mini pharmacies. They 
convert the food that we eat into chemicals,  
into hundreds and thousands of different 
chemicals. And those chemicals have this  
amazing impact on our body that we're only just 
beginning to realize. This collection of microbes  
has something like 200 times more genes than we 
have in our own human cells. That means they're  
much more versatile. They're more flexible in 
what they can produce in terms of chemicals and  
they're actually more numerous than our uh human 
cells. This is important because we evolved from  
these bacteria and the very first mammals and 
then humans were built because they contained  
these colonies of microbes that could interact 
with them and without these microbes we really  
wouldn't function and particularly our brains 
don't develop normally. So, one way to think  
about our gut microbiome is either as a the 
environment of a jungle or an amazing natural  
zoo where you've got these thousands of different 
species of microbes that have taken over a little  
niche inside our gut that is very specialized to 
them. They're not all fighting for the same food.  
They've evolved just like animals have to get have 
very specific tastes. The example I like comes  
from our own research where we found there is one 
bug that only really eats or drinks coffee. It is  
so fussy it hangs around maybe for years just 
waiting for that first cup of coffee before it  
will replicate and really start to be noticeable. 
If we start thinking of coffee as a great example,  
then you think about all the other bugs that we 
might have lying dormant in our guts that are  
waiting for us to eat something unusual, say a bit 
of baobob or some beetroot or um some particular  
type of of nut or herb or spice. And so that's 
a really important concept because we now know  
that the more diverse your gut microbes are, the 
healthier you are. So that's why uh we need to be  
thinking how can I best feed these very different 
gut microbes. Some of which might like coffee,  
others will only like uh the leaf of a bit of 
cabbage, others uh might like seeds or nuts and  
others will like the leftovers from what the 
other microbes have eaten. And this is also  
a really interesting concept because they they're 
working together. They make sure there's no waste.  
they are these perfect ecological beings. So 
that the concept of waste doesn't really exist.  
And what they've shown in some mouse studies is 
that um if you uh have a really strong colony of  
gut microbes that are very diverse, then you eat 
your standard diet, you have no waste left over.  
But if you only have a few microbes, rather poor 
uh colony, they're not very well diversified,  
you get leftovers. And when you get the leftovers, 
then you get what we call the bad bugs will eat  
those uh because they've got something to eat. 
So a really good healthy colony of microbes,  
like a zoo, is one where all the animals have a 
role, they've got something to eat. Uh there's no  
real waste, and everything is used up. It's really 
a marvelous model that we all love, a sustainable  
gut society. Although we all have thousands 
of species of these trillions of bugs inside  
our guts, we're actually really different one to 
another. And this is because as as kids uh when  
we're born, we're born sterile. So, it's slightly 
random which microbes end up colonizing our own  
uh colons. And it turns out that the average 
person only shares about 20% of their gut microbes  
with another. And even in identical twins, 
they don't share many more than that. So it's  
a process that's part random uh part uh designed 
that way and not very genetic. This means that we  
all have a different set of microbes producing 
slightly different functions. Until recently,  
we didn't really know how good bugs and bad 
bugs were interacting. And it turns out they're  
fighting for resources. The good bugs, these are 
ones that eat your, for example, plants and change  
those plants into healthy chemicals that your body 
can then use. And that has a a health effect. If  
they do well, they leave no food left over for the 
bad bugs, by which we mean bugs that increase when  
you have a bad, you know, an average American diet 
with fast foods and burgers, etc., lots of fat,  
those ones will increase and cause bad outcomes. 
So, it turns out that if you're only having a a  
a good diverse diet, there's very little waste 
to supply the bad bugs. This concept has changed  
quite recently because we used to be thinking okay 
how do we get rid of the bad bugs that are causing  
inflammation irritation in there but now we know 
it's focusing on on the good it's increasing uh  
those guys as much as possible essentially giving 
them a greater diversity of food so that everybody  
gets something to eat and we can really use the 
full armory of all those good microbes to produce  
the biggest possible possible array of chemicals 
that the body can then use in the best way.
Chapter two, an unhealthy gut leads to an 
unhealthy brain. When I started this research,  
we thought that the gut microbiome was really just 
involved in things like obesity and metabolism.  
And it's only recently we've realized that 
it does so much more. I like to think of it  
really interacting in sort of three key parts 
of the body. Yes, it does influence metabolism,  
energy levels. It uh sends signals to the brain 
about appetite and body weight and distribution  
etc. and is probably important in things like type 
2 diabetes. But one of its key roles is acting on  
the immune system. Our immune system is pretty 
crucial for virtually every common disease that  
we're encountering at the moment. From autoimmune 
diseases, food allergies to things like preventing  
cancer by these our immune cells killing off 
early cancers and the aging process itself.  
So the immune system is a huge part of what the 
gut microbiome does. And without a really good  
microbiome, you can't have a good immune system. 
The third key thing that the microbiome does is  
interact with our nervous system. And it does 
this through a huge network of nerves that are  
sometimes called our second brain. They're as big 
as a cat's brain. And they probably evolved around  
our intestine before even our brain was formed as 
when we were in the womb. And this network of of  
nerves connects to the brain primarily through the 
vagus nerve. This is like a fast internet cable  
that picks up what's going on in our gut microbes 
through the gut lining picking up signals in every  
single layer of the gut. So right through to 
the the tiny connections right on the inside  
of the mucosa through every layer. So they are 
actively sensing everything that's going on there.  
All these neurons interconnect. They're picking 
up signals from the gut microbes that are sending  
chemicals such as short- chain fatty acids which 
they make when they break down fiber. They might  
be getting them directly from the microbes or from 
the the cell wall of the microbes. They might be  
getting it from uh some hormones that the microbes 
are making. these endocrine hormone sensing uh  
cells in the gut lining like GLP1 that's uh people 
now know is how ampic works. They're picking up  
uh you know hostile chemicals, good chemicals. 
Everything is is going through to these little  
little tiny neuron endings and they're being fed 
into this vagus nerve through this incredible  
cable to our brain where it tells the brain what's 
going on. This discovery has really changed our  
whole idea of the the gut brain axis because we 
used to think the brain was telling the gut what  
to do. Turns out most of the traffic is from the 
gut to the brain. People conceptually thought the  
brain uh was separate to the body. And this is 
the carteesian view really that has penetrated  
and been very persistent in medicine for centuries 
and still means the reason that psychiatrists and  
uh medical doctors don't really mix and that we 
have separate hospitals and separate training.  
And yet now the latest science is showing 
that there really is very little difference.  
The brain is just another organ. It is not the 
brain controlling the rest of the body. It is  
just another organ and it relies on the gut for 
most of its information. Many people have vaguely  
heard about inflammation. I was unusual because as 
a kid uh I heard about it a lot because my father  
was a professor who focused on inflammation. 
Before it was trendy and well it was trendy  
briefly then it went out of fashion. Now it's 
definitely back and everyone needs to know what  
it means. It's a normal response we all have to a 
threat in in our bodies whether it's uh stress or  
it's an infection or something alien to us. Our 
body responds. It sends all these white cells  
from our body to that site and triggers a whole 
careful reaction that gets rid of that threat as  
quickly as it can and goes back to normal. Now, we 
currently have uh problem of what's called chronic  
inflammation, which means it lasts too long. 
So instead of getting a brief brief spike of  
uh inflammation in response to a threat say some 
bad food uh that returns to normal our bodies  
uh have become in some way uh changed so that that 
threat level stays up. So we are suddenly going  
through life at a a a threat level that isn't our 
baseline. That may be due to our environment of  
terrible food. Uh it could be due to pollution, 
pesticides, all kinds of things. But or it could  
be due to our stressful lives and social media. 
Whatever the cause, it's true that in the west  
we have stress levels based on the levels of 
inflammation or our immune system that are higher  
than you would find in Africa or India or uh where 
our ancestors came from. I also learned a lot of  
it because I was a rheatologist originally in my 
one of my early careers before I I changed several  
times and saw patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
um autoimmune disease who suffered a lot and they  
were constantly tired because of the inflammation 
in their joints which spread to their bloods.  
I didn't think much about it because we thought 
they were tired and depressed because their joints  
hurt. And that's really what we were told. Oh, 
it's normal. They are uh tired and depressed.  
They've got quite bad crippling arthritis. But it 
turns out it was just the reaction in the brain  
to what was going on in the rest of the body. 
We now know that many mental health problems,  
virtually all of them have been studied so far, 
have above average levels of inflammation and they  
also have abnormal gut microbes. So there's a link 
between uh mental health disorders which nearly  
all of them have reduced energy and reduced mood 
to some extent. even in forms like psychosis and  
schizophrenia or even in uh ones you don't regard 
as mental health but brain problems like epilepsy  
or migraine. This is also true. So there's a 
general increase in inflammation in the blood.  
There's also a general uh abnormality of the gut 
microbes compared to uh people who don't have  
any mental health problems. So we're seeing this 
picture developing whereby we are getting uh much  
more common ground to explain this explosion in 
mental health problems. That's that's based not on  
the old theory of uh a deficiency in certain brain 
chemicals or an excess of brain chemicals but due  
to this underlying inflammation which probably 
starts in the gut and then sends those signals  
to the brain. So an obvious question is where does 
this inflammation come from? What's triggering the  
body to in a way overreact and keep overreacting 
to stimuli rather than dealing with the problem,  
getting rid of it, going back to the base 
state which is what we know that our healthy  
ancestors had. Inflammation is both a cause and 
a consequence of many things we're talking about.  
The most obvious cause in the west of this 
uh pandemic of mental health problems is the  
fact that since the 1970s, we've been eating uh an 
increasingly bad diet. The standard American diet,  
the SAD diet, which is denuded of fiber, 
it's plenty of saturated fats and it's full  
of ultrarocessed food. All of which have been 
shown in uh particularly mouse models to cause  
inflammation in the gut of those mice leads to 
many more bad bugs compared to good bugs. There's  
not much for the good bugs to eat. The bad bugs 
take over. They like an inflammatory environment  
and they actually produce chemicals that will 
stir up uh the gut lining and that environment  
to in a way be more toxic and raise the levels 
of the immune cells in the body that think in a  
way they're infected or diseased in some way. So I 
think that's the unifying idea of how uh bad food  
on a long-term basis causes this increase in the 
imu the immune cells which you've got to remember  
that the gut microbes probably by evolution are 
there to pick up signals from the environment tell  
the brain who that can't really see outside the 
little skull what's going on. Gives it an idea of  
what's going on. It's this consciousness and it's 
picking up these signals and if those signals are  
bad food, inflammation, heightened you, fear, it's 
like, gosh, there's something bad going on here.  
Let's signal that back to the brain. What does the 
brain do? It goes into some sort of lockdown mode,  
a sickness behavior, some people call it, which is 
quite natural. It it's getting a signal from its  
main communicator, the gut, along the vagus nerve. 
It tells it all kinds of [ __ ] is happening down  
here. This is not good. We're getting really bad 
signals. How do we react in evolution? We'd say  
it's like an infection. We lower our mood. We 
lower our sociability. We lower activity. We  
tell the body we're tired, so we rest. And 
that's what you get fatigue, mood change,  
and all the other associated factors, and you end 
up with what we're calling depression. That's my  
way of thinking about this problem for perhaps the 
commonest factor that's changed in our lives in  
the last 50 years. And particularly why in kids, 
we're seeing this this pandemic at the moment.  
kids that have had mothers that were had terrible 
diets that passed that on to the kids and then  
basically they've had ultrarocessed foods for the 
the whole of their lives uh without ever having  
any real food to nourish any the few good microbes 
there are. Only the bad ones have been surviving  
in that jungle uh just on the fats and the scraps 
and the artificial sweeteners and the chemicals  
etc. So I think that for me is the the key model. 
You can also uh think of other ways that you might  
get inflammation and my research in this area is 
not that I've done it myself but looking at the  
the literature is that many of the risk factors 
for mental health disorders are all the same. So  
it doesn't matter which of these so-called 300 
different disorders you have the risk factors  
are the same. childhood stress, trauma, poor diets 
and um living in urban environments. All of these  
things increase stress and they now know that that 
stress you can see as an increase in inflammation  
in the in the immune system. So just psychological 
stress can also cause this as well as uh in a way  
dietary or gut stress end up with the same common 
pathway. After a bad night's sleep or some stress,  
your body seems to crave fatty and sugary things 
that are unhealthy. And we've all experienced that  
after a a poor night's sleep or a hangover or 
whatever it is. You reach for the the one thing  
that you think you you need, but it turns out 
you're wrong. Your brain's given you the wrong  
directions, and this is going to make you probably 
feel worse. So this sort of explains this loop  
people get in particularly uh with depression 
or anxiety. The brain is telling them to do one  
thing that actually is making it worse. And so 
it really explains why people with low mood and  
depression end up eating badly and can't get out 
of it and it's making them worse. hadn't really  
thought about the gut brain connection quite 
as much. But about nine years ago, my mother  
uh suffered a stroke. She ended up uh in a care 
home with uh dementia. Each time I visit her, you  
know, I am reminded of the fact that so many of us 
now are potentially facing this fate in old age.  
And it's not something that anyone really wants. 
dementia is probably the the worst way to go. So,  
it's made me think about this more and start to 
look how my own research could potentially have  
an impact or help not only myself but other 
people prevent dementia or at least delay it  
uh considerably. It turned out my mother with her 
stroke and subsequent acceleration of dementia  
probably had what's called vascular dementia 
which is a fairly general term that affects  
about one in three people who get dementia. 
It's the second commonest form and it tends  
to occur in phases so that the blood supply to 
the brain is getting progressively diminished  
and knocked off probably by atherosclerosis in the 
arteries uh supplying the brain. The other type of  
uh dementia that many people hear about is 
Alzheimer's which is probably the commonest  
form of dementia perhaps affecting uh 60% of 
all cases and it can start in a similar way with  
uh loss of memory or cognitive function and then 
progresses uh at a m usually a more sustained pace  
um that doesn't have these separate phases. is 
and that's caused slightly differently it being  
distinguished by having these protein folds 
in the brain these amaloid and these towel  
proteins that have led to some of the damage 
in the brain as the brain has been shrinking  
now we don't know they are causal it could be 
that these proteins just are part of the damage  
after it's occurred but we believe that there are 
some common causes of both these types of dementia  
that the risk factors seem to be quite similar 
in both cases. We can link this back to gut poor  
gut health. the picture of gut health that uh 
where you have a low ratio of good to bad bugs,  
you've got poor diversity of species and you got 
an inflammatory component going on there is a  
major risk for both types of dementia as is things 
like type 2 diabetes which probably is involves  
the energy supply to the brain which affects both. 
So for practical purposes, you should be trying to  
prevent both kinds of uh dementia because they 
have a big overlap in the causes although they  
can look very different at the end. So we have gut 
microbes all through our intestinal tract and that  
re means from our mouth to our anus and some bits 
are harder to access than others. It's very hard  
to know what's going on in the middle bit, the 
small intestine, because it's very hard to reach.  
And so we rely generally on what's happening in 
stool samples, but we also can look at what's  
happening in our mouths and our saliva where which 
is teeming with microbes that are there basically  
to protect us, but also start the first bit of 
digestion of food. And just like in our colon,  
there's a little colony of microbes there that 
uh interact with each other and you have good  
ones and you have bad ones. And if you provide an 
environment that uh doesn't clear away your food,  
leaves food waste, the bad bugs will accumulate 
and they can lead to inflammation. And this tends  
to happen um at the interface between your teeth 
and your gums. And we know that gum disease is  
very prevalent in in the west. Perodontitis and 
specific bugs absolutely love the environment  
there. You get slight redness and swelling which 
is a sign of inflammation and you can generally  
see it there. Your gums might be slightly tender, 
might be swollen, might be red. And in certain  
cases, they will bleed if you uh floss them or 
brush them hard. That's a sign that you've got  
inflammation there that they're bad bugs living 
there, eating the bits of food. They form plarkes.  
And a plaque is a a complicated structure that's 
made by these microbes that builds up like a  
protective shield. So that in a way they can keep 
uh digging away, eating things uh and they're  
protected from you uh brushing them away. So our 
teeth, it turns out, are a really good place to  
look for inflammation. And remarkably, we we we 
learned about 10 or even 15 years ago that dental  
decay was related to heart disease. And there 
were certain microbes they found very early  
on. I think it was strep mutans is associated with 
uh increased risk of heart attacks. This was very  
strange when that first came out. I remember now 
we were able to look much more broadly at all the  
microbes. We know that poor uh mouth uh hygiene 
means high rates of bad microbes compared to good  
ones. These are pro-inflammatory. And if you're 
not brushing and flossing your teeth, you have  
roughly a 25% increase in heart disease. And some 
studies are showing anything between 20 and 50%  
uh increase in uh dementia and cognitive decline. 
So suddenly we've got a really good example of how  
um uncontrolled inflammation in our bodies 
can have a direct effect on areas we hadn't  
really thought linked at all like our brain. 
I think this gives people the idea uh of how  
important it is and how preventive action can work 
because if you then brush your teeth regularly,  
you'll reduce that risk perhaps by half. So rather 
than 50%, you're down to 25%. But if you then  
floss um which is gives you an extra say 30 or 40% 
of cleaning you do that really well and you can  
get rid of the plaque and get rid of the bleeding 
and the the inflammation you can get right back to  
zero. So I think this is a marvelous example of 
how we need to battle inflammation in our bodies  
really to save our brain health. Well it's hard 
for the average person to know what their gut  
health is like. Basically, it means that your uh 
your trips to the toilet are regular. You look at  
your stool and you see, is it fairly soft? You 
don't want to be a cowpat. You don't want to be  
a sheep dropping. You want something in between 
and you are going once or twice a day. If that's  
the case and you're not getting any bloating and 
you're not having constipation or diarrhea or,  
you know, a lack of regularity, then you're 
probably pretty healthy. If the opposite is  
true and you're having any of these problems, 
your stools look rather strange, they're,  
you know, they're varying, you're only going once 
or twice a week, then it's highly likely you have  
uh gut problems and uh you need some dietary 
help. We talked earlier about thinking about your  
mood and energy. Are you fatigued? Is your mood 
lower than it should be? Are you getting uh some  
bloating? These are signs you do have gut health 
issues and you should address them. Improving  
your plant intake will improve your fiber. You 
know, do a bit of exercise, have some more water,  
etc. Having done that, if you want to test your 
gut microbiome, which I think will be standard  
of care in five years time, it's very difficult 
at now to know who to go to. Your general family  
physician may or may not be able to help. A 
functional uh medicine doctor probably will,  
and we're seeing more of those more holistic type 
of uh doctors appearing, but uh it's not something  
that's very easy to do. But I think a good gut 
microbiome test is much more useful to you than  
getting your your genes tested or your DNA. 
It's really your metabolic blood pressure. Um,  
if your gut health is good, most of the rest of 
you is going to be pretty good. And if it's bad,  
you're going to have problems. Chapter 3. Eight 
tips for maintaining a healthy gut ecosystem.  
The old way of thinking about nutrition is the way 
I was taught and doctors are still being taught is  
that essentially there's only four things you 
need to know about nutrition. It's calories,  
how much fat there is, how much protein there is, 
and how much sugar there is. If you get those four  
things right, everything else will follow. We've 
been following that advice for the last 40 years  
and it's been a complete disaster. It doesn't 
make sense scientifically anymore. Uh it's  
only really helped the food companies uh sell us 
more crappy products and it's led to a disaster  
uh of unbelievable scale for the public health. 
Real food, unlike fake food that is made just  
from a few ingredients, contains thousands of 
chemicals. And all of these uh play a role in  
our body because they then nourish the trillions 
of microbes inside our gut to produce thousands of  
other chemicals that our body can't produce. It's 
only by focusing nutritional health guidelines  
on this new organ in our body, our gut microbes, 
that it all makes sense. We have to have a seismic  
shift in our idea about nutrition in order to 
make healthy progress and focus on gut health  
and what are the key principles to improve all of 
our gut microbes which will help us. As I've been  
studying the gut microbiome, I've been obviously 
thinking of how I can translate that science  
into progress and practical tips for people in 
various ages and states of how they can improve  
their gut health. The first one is what we call 
mindfulness. And this seems a bit strange. What  
what's he talking about mindfulness for? Well, 
I remember when I uh started to change my diet,  
I decided to be vegan. It was an easy way to 
change your diet. as a a temporary fix if you like  
because it meant that when I was going to medical 
conferences I would stop and think before I just  
took something from that tray from that buffet I 
would say what's in it uh was there meat in it or  
is there dairy in it and we don't need to be that 
extreme all you need to do is to think about what  
you're eating just for a second before you grab it 
or you put it in your mouth So mindfulness in this  
context means just stop and think am I hungry do I 
need this what's in it you know and what what are  
those contents are they going to uh have an effect 
on me and then what effect is that going to have  
on me if I do eat them. So these sort of three 
steps that I think are important in mindfulness  
is an important realization that food is much more 
than just calories. uh is it going to affect my  
mood? How am I going to feel in three hours time? 
Uh what what are the long-term consequences? But  
also, is it going to be really tasty? Am I going 
to really enjoy it or am I just being forced by  
marketing by big food to eat this rubbish that 
I don't really want? So there three uh steps in  
this this concept of mindfulness. We just want 
people to stop and think. That's number one.  
So the second principle, probably the most 
important that we've found scientifically is to  
eat a diversity of plants. It's not about eating 
the same plant many times a week. We think that  
the science is pointing us to is something around 
30 different plants a week gives you optimum gut  
health. This is a study that I took part in with 
the British gut and the American gut about 10  
years ago where we saw that the sweet spot for 
gut health was people eating around 30 different  
plants a week. It looks like it might be slightly 
more than that, but certainly 30 is a really good  
target. It turns out it doesn't matter if 
you're vegan or vegetarian or an omnivore.  
It's the people that eat the most plants have 
the healthiest gut, which I think is is really  
interesting. 30 plants to many people say that 
sounds way too much. The average American probably  
has between 10 and 12 plants a week. How do I get, 
you know, how do I get over double that? Well,  
you got to remember what a plant is. It's a it's 
not only a fruit and a vegetable, but it's also  
a nut. It's every different type of seed. It's an 
herb. It's a spice. It's even things like coffee,  
which is a fermented bean. So when you just 
change your mind a bit about what plants are,  
then it becomes easier and fun to add them to 
your plate. Think about more rather than less.  
Most diets are all about excluding things. And 
what we're trying to do for our gut health is to  
in include more things. We've got little microbes 
just waiting around for that bit of baobob or that  
particular nut or seed or berry. uh the chemical 
that comes from it. So the more you can give your  
gut microbes, the better. My third guideline is 
to eat three fermented foods daily. So I've spent  
the last three years researching fermented 
foods and have a book on that subject. And  
what was really interesting is I I didn't think 
it was a topic worth discussing three years ago  
because the science wasn't really up to it. But 
I've been convinced by a couple of studies. The  
first was from my colleague Christopher Gardner 
at Stamford, a very detailed but small study  
of adults who were told to eat five fermentss a 
day, comparing that group to a high-fiber group.  
And what they showed was that not only did the gut 
health improve in the fermented group particularly  
the immune system was impacted and they had around 
25% less inflammation. So suddenly moving from  
anecdote and lots of small not very good studies 
in the literature uh that were all pointing the  
same way that fermented foods were good for you to 
suddenly a mechanism that this can really impact  
your immune health in different ways to just 
rather than just eating lots of fiber and plants.  
People think what is a ferment? A fermented food 
is something that's been transformed by microbes  
into something better. So you transform milk 
into cheese much more interesting than milk. You  
transform grapes into wine. Uh you're transforming 
cabbage into sauerkraut. So think the 4Ks. Keir,  
uh kimchi, kraut, kombucha. Kombucha is uh 
fermented tea, which is all really good for you.  
Most cheeses, if they're not, uh made artificially 
in in in factories, are good. Yogurt is great.  
All the soy products that you see in [ __ ] Japan, 
miso paste, all these krauts and pickles that are  
fermented in salt are really good for you. So 
variety is important. They've all got plenty of  
different microbial species and they're probably 
better for you than just taking probiotics  
from the pharmacy or the drugstore. So my 
recommendation is to build up to three fermentss a  
day as an extra boost for your immune system and 
your gut microbes. a big fan of fermented foods  
now because the science has finally caught up. 
The fourth guideline is to diversify your protein.  
We're going through a protein craze at the moment 
where every product has added protein in it. Every  
uh American thinks they're deficient in protein. 
And um there's nothing wrong with protein. It's  
not particularly harmful. But if you don't uh 
need it, you lose it. You can't store it. So  
you pee it out or it gets converted to fat. If 
you are trying to get more protein and perhaps  
10% of people are lacking in protein because 
they're unwell, they might be elderly. They're  
uh trying to uh build body mass or try and 
not lose it too much as they're on the these  
um weight loss drugs. Then my view is you should 
be trying to think about other protein sources  
rather than just uh red meat. The one that comes 
to mind are beans and lentils uh things that have  
really high protein content but also contain 
lots of fiber. This means your microbes can  
actually use that at the same time as your body's 
getting that protein. So that's a real reason why  
we should be switching eating many more beans and 
pulses than we are currently. They're very cheap,  
they're accessible, they're good for the planet, 
and our microbes love them. Guideline number five  
is focus on quality, not calories. For decades, 
we've been obsessed with the calorie as the main  
source of describing food and nutrition about 
whether it's healthy or not. There are hardly any  
uh nutrition scientists who now believe in the 
dominance of the calorie. It's only a tool for the  
food companies to make rubbish food uh seem more 
healthy because it is lower in this magic term.  
The science tells us that these uh in the vast 
majority of people fail. It's really impossible  
for most people to follow a calorierestricted 
diet for more than a few weeks. And even if they  
do lose weight, as most people do, uh virtually 
everybody regains it because your body's appetite  
signal is turned up. The brain has finally tuned 
to know if you're uh not getting enough energy  
and it switches up its thermostat to ramp up your 
hunger signals. Your body is designed by evolution  
to overcome that pure uh calorie signal. The other 
problem with calories, not only the fact that it's  
it's virtually impossible to calorie count and 
and lose weight, is that it disguises the food  
in ways that gets us to stop thinking about the 
quality of what we're eating. And that's what  
the food companies have been doing for the last 
uh 40 or 50 years, trying to switch our thought  
away from the fact that they are just making this 
uh crap food out of a few ingredients that have  
government surpluses, away from the food we should 
be eating, which are whole foods, which is what  
our gut microbes want to eat. They want to eat a 
variety of foods that are in their original state  
that have the the casing uh that contains most of 
the fiber. They want the skin on it. This is where  
most of the nutrients and ingredients are that 
uh we need for our bodies to work really well.  
This is a really important step as people um try 
to disregard the calorie which effectively doesn't  
have a major role in our any of our plans and we 
ignore the calorie completely. So tell people it  
doesn't matter. It's all about the quality of the 
food, how it's going to impact your gut microbes.  
And once you do that, it's very liberating for 
people to think I don't have to worry about this.  
And generally, if something's got low calorie 
on it, it's a poor quality food. You should  
be avoiding it. Number six, avoid high-risk 
processed foods or high-risisk ultrarocessed  
foods. These are the foods that make up 50 to 70% 
of the American diet hire in kids. And most those  
foods are really harmful for us. There isn't a 
universal definition of an ultrarocessed food.  
We think that ultrarocessed food itself is 
is too broad a term because it most people  
use as anything that has got an additive in it. 
Some of those additives can be like vitamin C,  
therefore not particularly bad for you, whereas 
others are are dreadful. And the worst ones,  
the ones we categorized that make up 25% of uh 
the American diet have a number of components  
that make them particularly harmful. Remember, 
these are foods that are mainly made from cheap  
ingredients that are government subsidized like uh 
like maze uh like uh soy and uh wheat and sugar.  
These are things that are plentiful and taxpayers 
are paying for them to be cheap and they have  
surplus of it. So they've got to make create foods 
with them and they do that really effectively.  
and they try and upsell them by adding additives 
to them that change their color and they change  
their texture and they change their taste. 
And some of these additives are not too bad.  
Others are quite unhealthy and others are really 
unhealthy for us. Some of them are associated  
with cancer. Some of associated with mental health 
problems in kids. You have emulsifiers which glue  
them together which are bad for our gut microbes. 
You've got artificial sweeteners which uh many of  
them develop from the petrochemical industry which 
our bodies are not used to that cause our microbes  
to produce funny strange chemicals in response 
and are generally harmful. You've got others  
that we still don't know how bad they are. That 
that's the additives. Then you've got uh the hyper  
palatability that the companies use a mixture of 
salt, sugar, and fat in those combinations to make  
that food override your normal fullness signal. 
So they do this very deliberately. We all know  
we've eaten a big bag of chips or whatever it 
is in front of the TV and it's it's got potato,  
which is starch in it. It's got um salt. It's got 
usually um some some uh fats in there and it's  
that sugar, salt, fat in the perfect combination 
that these brilliant food scientists have created  
that will tickle our brains into uh thinking we 
can keep eating them and we just don't get full.  
So hyper palatability is a component of 70% of 
these foods. The other component that you need to  
be looking out for is is it something that you can 
eat super quickly. Uh its structure has been taken  
away. So you strip off all those bits of plants 
that make it necessary to chew it and you've just  
got the inside uh bits. So we end up eating baby 
food. They melt in your mouth, dissolve away. You  
can keep eating them without even noticing it, 
without exercising your jaw. And then finally,  
the best from the food company's point of view 
are foods that you can get lots of energy in  
really quickly without noticing it. And this is 
called calorie density. The worst offending foods  
have those. So these are the the four categories. 
The ones to look out for are the ones that have  
all of those components. And that makes up 25% of 
the American diet. breakfast cereals uh for kids,  
uh most children's yogurts, um most savory 
snacks, most cookies, uh most ready meals, most  
u sodas and drinks, even if they are low calorie. 
So, not only is it bad for your gut microbes, it's  
also going to make you uh keep eating and become 
obese and have all those problems of diabetes,  
etc. I don't think it's realistic to cut them all 
out completely. And my view is that yeah, you can  
still have the odd uh treat, but don't have any 
of these as a regular part of your diet. Number  
seven, try and eat the rainbow. You may have heard 
that before, certainly been around a while, but we  
now know why it's good to eat the rainbow. Rainbow 
plants and uh especially fruits and vegetables  
have rich colors. And that's what we're looking 
for when we trying to select something to put  
on your plate is to try and get as bright and as 
varied as possible because plants that have these  
bright colors tend to also have high levels of a 
defense chemical called polyphenols. Plants like  
humans, you know, have a defense mechanism and 
this is their defense mechanism. They are fighting  
off insects and sunlight and d dr dr dr dr dr dr 
dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr drought  
etc with these chemicals that turn out to be 
actually very good for us. They used to be called  
antioxidants which is a rather vague scientific 
term. We now know that our microbes can use these  
polyphenols as a form of fuel. If they're getting 
this, it's like they're getting extra gasoline.  
And so this engages all our microbes to be 
healthier. So as well as breaking down the fiber  
in the these plants, they're also getting these 
extra chemicals which is acting as a fuel which  
makes them even more productive. So nature's given 
us these clothes, bright colors. For example,  
you got a store uh you got an iceberg lettuce 
there and you've got a rosolo, an Italian one  
with lots of purple uh leaves on it. always go 
for the brightly colored one that will have a  
thousand times more uh polyphenols than the uh 
ubiquitous iceberg lettuce whose only advantage  
is that it stays forever in your fridge. It has 
no nutritional value other than that it will come  
still be there after your vacation. The other 
clue in nature is they can be bitter as well.  
So, slightly bitter tasting plants like your 
broccololis, the cruciferous vegetables. Uh,  
nuts and seeds. You've got uh extra virgin olive 
oil, which is my oil of choice, is really high in  
polyphenols. The best ones will make you slightly 
cough, and you want them to be really nice and  
young. You've got dark chocolate. over 70% is 
generally healthy because that cacao bean has  
really been um fermented and is uh really strong 
in polyphenols as is coffee. If you like a drink  
uh the the the only one I'd recommend for your 
gut health is probably red wine which has high  
levels of polyphenols uh again in moderation. 
So they're the tips that nature's given us  
uh to identify why eating the rainbow and bitter 
foods are actually good for us. The final tip is  
try and give your gut a rest. And by that I mean 
timerestricted eating. 20 years ago and certainly  
when I was at medical school was the idea that we 
should be uh grazing not feasting. Things have now  
changed and we now realize that constant grazing 
is what your gut microbiome doesn't like at all.  
We know how important sleep is for our health. 
Uh getting eight hours a night can really extend  
your lifespan, improve your immune system. Well, 
the same is true for our gut microbes. They have  
a circadian rhythm. They actually go to sleep 
and they need this time to repair the gut. So  
if it's eating all the time and you're having late 
night snacks, early breakfast, they're not getting  
the natural time they need that our ancestors 
had for millions of years to clean up our gut,  
particularly the lining of the gut where the 
mucosa is. This is really important as an immune  
barrier and the healthier that is, the healthier 
generally our immune responses are. So give your  
gut 12 to 14 hours to recover overnight and this 
is the basis of timerestricted eating. The way  
timerestricted eating seems to work is through a 
number of mechanisms. The first is by leaving that  
gap uh in time your microbes are not focusing on 
eating and you have a a defense team that comes  
out at night. A bit like in American football you 
have a different teams for offense and defense.  
defense comes out. It cleans up the lining of 
your mucosa. That tidies up the gut lining,  
makes it more efficient, helps the immune system. 
You're also getting metabolic advantages so that  
uh your gut health is generally better the next 
day because it's all been tidied up for you. There  
isn't that much debris lying around and you get 
less unhealthy bugs over time. It also seems to be  
uh better for your mental health. A lot of this is 
uh anecdotal, but we did do a large study in ZOE  
of 140,000 people asked them to do timerestricted 
eating. A third of people hated it. They were  
snackers and they just found it really difficult. 
A third loved it. They're still doing it years  
later. And what we we learned was the people 
that that were adhering to it had improved mood,  
energy, and less hunger from doing it. So there 
do seem to be other benefits that we still  
uh are looking at. And it also helps 
you avoid snacking and we know that  
uh mindless snacking accounts about 25% of 
calories in in in the United States and the  
UK. So it just makes you a bit more thoughtful 
about what you're eating if you're trying to  
give your gut microbes a rest. Timerestricted 
eating is a form of intermittent fasting,  
but you're not restricting calories. you're just 
eating the same food you would normally eat,  
but in a more limited time frame. So, for people 
wanting to give it a go, I would say the easiest  
thing is to start with a little rule like leave 
at least 2 hours before going to bed where you're  
not eating anything else except maybe some black 
tea or or or water. That way, your gut will have a  
chance to recover and hopefully you'll notice the 
difference the next morning. And if that works,  
then you can extend it and maybe say, "Okay, 
I can try this uh for a 12-hour overnight fast  
as well." We are moving to the idea that many 
people can do very well just having two main  
meals a day or maybe combining breakfast and 
lunch. The concept of brunch many people are  
enjoying around the world and see actually I 
feel quite good at the weekend when I do that.  
I don't necessarily need to eat first thing 
in the morning. And I think we're realizing  
that this this idea of three big meals and maybe 
three snacks events has been forced on us by the  
food industry. Mr. Kellogg was probably the first 
one to say that everyone had to have a breakfast  
before doing anything otherwise you'd be unable 
to work. It's Kelloggs for breakfast [music] and  
a happy happy day. I personally find, you know, 
I'm doing this interview now and I decide not to  
have breakfast because I'm actually sharper uh 
when I haven't eaten just before it. So, for me,  
uh two or three meals, no major snacking events, 
eating relatively late. I eat until [snorts] say  
finish eating maybe 8:30 at night and then will 
try and not have anything to eat before about  
10:30 the next morning. That suits me. When we 
asked the 140,000 ZOE members what they preferred,  
they found two-thirds preferred that same rhythm. 
One-third uh couldn't miss breakfast. They said,  
"I really like my breakfast. I'm hungry when 
I get up. I want to have my breakfast but then  
I'll finish eating around uh 6 6:30 and so people 
have different rhythms as we discovered. I think  
there is a bit of personalization to this and you 
have to find the one that suits you but my advice  
would be don't follow what the big food companies 
want you to do. Uh do experiment find out what  
works for you and follow that. So there you go. 
There are my eight guidelines. The key message is  
you got to eat for your gut microbes. If they're 
happy, you're going to be happy. Chapter four. Why  
the internet gets dieting all wrong. I think 
it's very hard at the moment for the average  
public who's not a scientist, not a doctor to know 
what to do for their health. Reports, you know,  
one day that coffee is bad for you, another day 
coffee is good for you. Uh eggs are good for you.  
one day and eggs are bad for you. Public has to 
realize that the media thrive on these stories on  
these scare stories. Uh they love food stories. 
So you know our newspapers and social media are  
full of all this stuff. So the the key is to not 
overreact and to realize that your core diet is  
the most essential and that if you are looking 
after your gut microbes and you're doing most of  
those those eight things we discussed, it doesn't 
really matter what else you do or don't do because  
the majority of your plate every day is going 
to be full of good stuff. Whether you have eggs,  
whether you have coffee, whether it's good or bad 
is not going to be crucial to your health. What  
is crucial is that majority of the time you're 
doing the right thing. 80% rule is what I love  
is you 80% of the time you're doing uh things 
right and you don't worry about the odd time  
the you may have the odd trip to McDonald's 
once a month. If your gut health is good,  
it will cope with the rest. All good scientists 
should change their minds when the data changes.  
And I've made lots of mistakes in my career. Most 
of it not my necessarily my fault. There was some  
data on margarine being healthier than butter. So 
I changed our fridge back, this is 20 years ago,  
to having these low-fat spreads and kicked 
out the butter. My wife objected. She's she's  
uh French speakaking so she wouldn't have any 
of it. She kept the butter so we had separate  
compartments. And I realized that I I got it 
wrong and now there's no low-fat artificial  
ultrarocessed spreads in my fridge. So I'm 
constantly changing my view on many of these  
things. I'm much more open-minded than I think I 
was before. So it's an exciting time uh to be a  
scientist. I think what is important to realize 
is that science is moving on at a pace. It takes  
on average 20 years for doctors to change their 
practice from the time that uh a new uh scientific  
discovery has been uh proven. So there's a big 
lag between what the latest science is delivering  
and what the latest practice is or what your 
insurance is going to pay for etc etc. the public  
is stuck in the middle here. And I think what's 
important is to see when there's a consensus,  
when there have been a number of studies that are 
all pointing in the same direction and they've  
got someone they trust that is telling them yes, 
the summary of this data convincingly is saying  
you need to do this. I think the lesson here is 
that the public needs to up their game a bit to  
be a bit more educated to know that I can create 
any outcome I want in a test tube. You need to  
disregard that. I can do the same thing in mice. 
That would probably be pretty irrelevant. Getting  
people to think, has this been tested in humans? 
Was there a placebo arm? Is this really going to  
change the practice of most people without just 
jumping on every bandwagon that people want you  
to to jump on? At the same time, realize that the 
guidelines that are out there from government,  
etc. are very behind the times. and realize that 
uh a lot of the stuff people might be seeing on  
social media is probably too far ahead of the time 
just so someone can talk about a test tube study  
or a mouse study that sounds exciting or wacky or 
uh accounts for some weird theory. There's lots  
of people on to looking at paleo diets or keto 
diets, people who only eat meat or people who  
only have really high levels of fat above 70% that 
claim miraculous benefits from it. Most of these  
diets work shortterm because if it's away from 
ultrarocessed foods, then generally it's going  
to be healthy uh to that extent. And so people 
who go on a carnivore diet, which is a an idea  
of what our ancestors ate, uh, a very selected 
idea of what our ancestors ate, they will feel  
benefits for a few weeks, might lose usually lose 
weight. Those people will then tell everyone about  
it. Isn't it amazing? People who go on very strict 
gluten-free diets, keto diets, carnivore diets,  
seed oil free diets like the idea of excluding 
things. So that suddenly you're belonging to this  
club of people that are excluders and that's 
perhaps the attraction and that's why most  
religions have some food based ideas that keeps 
that community together. So they they become a  
little group, they feel better for the first six 
weeks and that's when the problems start. So,  
a they might be very hard to sustain like a 
keto diet is really hard to sustain those high  
levels of fat. Most people feel rather sick. And 
long-term your gut is suffering. Any restriction  
to the amount of plants that are going into your 
gut will start to have an effect of killing off  
the good ones and making the uh overgrowth of the 
bad ones that are just uh eating the scraps of  
what of what you're eating. And so long-term you 
have immune problems uh and gut health problems,  
mental problems down the line. So I think uh 
exclusion diets will work short term and people  
might want to do that as an experiment to see how 
they feel, but then they've got to long-term start  
looking after their long-term gut health, which 
is the thing that's going to keep them alive and  
keep them free of diseases. What I like about 
our message is that it's not about exclusion.  
It's about inclusion at the very best level. All 
that mattered was you're getting that big variety.  
There's those those u 30 plus plants. I get a lot 
of questions about uh organic food, for example.  
Should we only be eating organic food? How bad 
are these pesticides and these herbicides for  
us? These are great questions that don't have 
simple answers. It's always better, I think,  
to eat non-organic vegetables than not to eat them 
at all. Yes, our fruits and vegetables are sprayed  
with pesticides and herbicides that are probably 
slightly negative for our health, particularly  
if you're uh pregnant or you're a young child or 
you're have some immune problems or you're sick.  
For most of us, it's a low-level harm. You want to 
avoid it, but it's not life and death. And that's  
the way I I see about these things. We should 
also be try and supporting farming that's moving  
towards organic because we'd all prefer to live in 
a world that didn't have these chemicals sprayed  
to kill every kill all kinds of life. And we do 
know that these pesticides harm our gut microbes.  
So, they've been shown to be relatively safe for 
our genes. They don't alter our genes, but they  
do interfere with the genes of our microbes. 
So, in theory, I don't want to eat pesticides  
uh at all. The reality is it's tough. I don't like 
paying twice as much for my food. At home, what  
I do is I uh yeah, I get organic food delivered 
on a weight a basis, but when I'm out and about,  
I'm not that worried about it because it's better 
to eat vegetables that have some uh chemicals on  
them, wash them off than not to eat them, and 
deprive your your gut microbes of a meal. Now,  
some foods I would worry more about than others 
because they're not all the same. Uh if you  
look at oats, oats have a terrible record because 
they're sprayed multiple times before harvesting.  
So they can have um many times the levels of other 
crops. So I'd always go for organic oats and you  
can find those in stores now. It's worth paying a 
little bit more for those. Similarly with berries,  
if you can get uh organic strawberries that aren't 
sprayed, they'll be much healthier. But if you're  
talking about things like oranges or avocados, 
I'm less worried because you don't not eating  
the skin and a lot of the pesticide is is in that 
skin. So, it's a it's a slightly nuanced question,  
but personally, I'm not obsessed so that uh I 
get stressed every time I go out to a store or a  
restaurant about not finding uh the exact product 
I want. It's about not exposing yourself to things  
over long periods of time, not the occasional 
uh event. That's really important. Another thing  
people ask me about is mercury content of large 
fish. If I'm a fish fanatic and I'm I'm having  
fish two or three times a week, I wouldn't want 
want to having the those same large fish because  
I would be building up high mercury levels. 
You might want to have your fish checked. And  
there are places you can buy fish from that have 
guaranteed low mercury levels, but I'd be going  
for smaller fish which are also more sustainable 
for the oceans. My own personal choices of food  
are I'm thinking about uh the health consequences 
of the food, some ethical considerations about it,  
uh but also the effect on the planet. Fish is 
particularly pertinent to that because most of  
the fish we get is is uh grown in fish farms. um 
some which are good, some of which are bad. So,  
it's good to be thoughtful, but in general, go for 
small fish that are more likely to be sustainable  
and also have very high levels of the omega-3s 
that are really good for your brain. I'm often  
going to people in restaurants and the they're 
very worried about the salt content and they're  
asking uh for no salt to be added to their food. 
This is a subject that I was interested in because  
I had high blood pressure diagnosed came on 
suddenly about 15 years ago and I tried salt  
restricting for a couple of weeks and see if it 
would change my blood pressure. I didn't notice  
the difference. So, I started researching this and 
it it turns out that um for the the average normal  
uh 50-year-old, cutting out salt virtually 
completely from your diet improves your blood  
pressure by about 1 to 2%. If you have a problem 
with uh hypertension, blood pressure, it might  
increase to about 4%. And when I looked in detail, 
it turns out that there's only about one in five  
people that are really sensitive to salt. Four 
out of five of us are not that sensitive. So it  
has an exaggerated effect that most people aren't 
aware of. So I tell people that if you're worried  
about salt, do a proper test. Take your blood 
pressure three times a day for two weeks having  
no salt salt at all, which is horrible, and 
see what effect it has on your blood pressure.  
What I also found out is that eating just 
something like beetroot can increase can  
reduce your blood pressure three times 
more than salt restriction. Similarly,  
just changing your salt to a potassium salt can 
have three times the effect of salt restriction.  
So most people don't have to worry nearly as much 
as they are. And I think it destroys a lot of the  
pleasure of eating and stops them maybe enjoying 
vegetables as much or fermented foods as much  
because they're worried about the salt content. 
That's why it doesn't come into my guidelines. And  
if you're avoiding most of the ultrarocessed 
food, you're going to be avoiding the salt.  
There's really good data showing the salt you 
add at your table is negligible effect on your  
health compared to all the rubbish you're getting 
consuming too much ultrarocessed food. When I was  
researching fermentation, I looked at kimchi 
eaters and then anyone who's had kimchi knows  
it's really tastes really salty and when you make 
fermented foods, you have to add a lot of salt.  
They looked at um over 10,000 kimchi eaters in in 
in South Korea, compared them to non-kimch eaters  
of the same age, and they actually had lower 
blood pressure than uh the non-kimchas. So,  
the benefits of having fermented foods and plants, 
and plants contain potassium, outweighs any effect  
of the salt. That's a great example of a nice 
simple solution being exaggerated because of  
rather outdated research that stayed in the in our 
in our minds. Yes, salt has a role. Most of it's  
an ultrarocessed food. Eating plants would have 
a much better effect on your blood pressure than  
worrying too much about salt. A lot of people also 
think that diet isn't that important if you've got  
a rich supply of supplements and there's a lot 
of marketing directed at people like that to say  
you don't have to worry about your diet. You just 
got this green powder you take every morning with  
80 different uh chemicals and vitamins. That's all 
you ever need. Again, that falls into this idea of  
reductionism. a nice simple solution to a complex 
problem that usually by definition is wrong. And  
all the studies suggest that eating the food 
is always better than eating the chemical that  
uh has been derived from that food. because 
there are other things in the food that aren't  
represented in that highly purified chemical 
that's made often made artificially by yeast  
in factories. Most of them are in China uh with 
all kinds of additives etc. that make it very  
different to just having that from uh a natural 
plant. The example I like is for for years I was  
giving calcium replacement tablets to my patients 
in rheumatology uh thinking I was helping their  
bones and they'd be taking you know maybe a gram a 
day. It turns out that taking something like that,  
your body doesn't deal with it. And it's now 
been associated over uh six studies uh showing  
that it's associated with increased risk of heart 
disease and atherosclerosis with a hardening of  
the arteries. So the calcium is being deposited in 
places that you don't necessarily want it because  
it's given in a form that the body's not used to. 
We normally break down calcium in tiny amounts  
from all the foods we're eating or from mineral 
waters and things like this and it's gradually  
gets incorporated into our body. So taking one big 
dose of it uh can have very different effects on  
our body. So that's why I'm always wary about 
supplements. They can also interact with each  
other. So they don't work. you know, if you have 
zinc and you have iron at the same time, they they  
stop each other working and you don't know the 
quality of them at all. And things like vitamin D,  
vitamin D is called the sunshine vitamin. 
The body converts sunshine uh into vitamin D,  
and that's how we get most of it in our in 
our bodies. And that's how we've evolved.  
But taking vitamin D is not a replacement for 
sunshine, for example, because there's many other  
things in sunshine that we still don't know about 
that provide our bodies with a lot of benefits.  
And there's a lot of epidemiology comparing people 
who go in the sun and out of the sun uh showing  
that even after having a melanoma for example, 
people who go in the sun have a better immune  
system and a a better uh outcome than people 
who are maybe just taking vitamin D tablets.  
So often we mistake a subset of of a food for 
being better than the whole food or the whole  
um environment like like sun. And there many other 
examples like that where you know we just take  
one thing from a carrot and call it keratene and 
say that's going to be good. We know carrots are  
good for you but if you have too much kerotene 
it's probably bad for you. We love to reduce  
um foods to one thing. we we can manufacture that 
in huge quantities. Marketing does the rest and  
what seemed like a good idea is often really 
a pretty poor one and can often be harmful for  
you. If someone's offering you a single solution 
to a nutrition or a gut problem, it's probably  
rubbish. They're probably just trying to sell you 
something. But we all as humans are suckers for  
the the simple solution. The science of nutrition 
as I've you know got into it really without biases  
15 years ago is one of the most complex sciences 
we have. It's we were told it was the simplest  
all calories and macronutrients. Turns out it's 
really complicated. That means there isn't one  
single product or solution to it to it. There 
isn't one vitamin that's going to cure you.  
We need to take a more holistic view of it. 
And that's that's a really important message.  
We need to be doing things that aren't just for a 
six- week diet, aren't just to lose weight. It's  
how do you change all your habits that you've 
you've accumulated all these bad habits. How do  
you change them in this direction going forward? 
Uh and do this for years so that your body is much  
healthier, your brain is much healthier. We make 
hundreds of food choices every day. And the food  
choices we make are the most important choices 
we can make for our health. So make them wisely.
Want to support the channel? [music] 
Join the Big Think Members community  
where you get access to videos early and free.