Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
I want to talk to you today
A very common trauma in Chinese families
In the past year
When I and many netizens
When discussing their growth experiences
I find that many people are revising trauma
Or when you appeal to your parents
They will experience strong feelings of shame and guilt.
Although they feel that their parents have hurt them
Or think
Parents did not give themselves
Provide a safe environment for growth
But I always feel that my demands lack some confidence
Sometimes I feel guilty
Because they feel
After all, parents have invested a huge amount of money in themselves.
And in oneself
If you are still unable to repay your parents
You are not eligible to appeal or complain.
Of course, this concept is also shared by parents and society
Intentionally or unintentionally passed it to them
The kindness of parents is not over yet
Even if there is no merit, there is still hard work
Today's video
Let’s talk about this metaphor of investment.
And why the logic of grace is wrong
Before the video starts, let me say
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
if
Do you have any topic you want to discuss with me?
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
First, I would like to share some cases
for example
A netizen once told me
When I was a child, my father would beat and scold me
But he's very good at pretending to be a good father
Once
He told others that his father had also beaten him.
This is not an accusation.
Just a casual mention
As a result, his father beat him again when he got home
Because my father always wanted to give it to outsiders
Create a good image for children
So I think he would ruin his reputation by saying this.
In his adulthood
His father held a coming-of-age ceremony for him.
Invited many relatives and friends to attend
Even his teacher
At the banquet
My father listed a long bill.
Show every penny you've spent on your children since they were young
Even accurate to a red envelope
My father emphasized how many luxury cars he could buy with so much money.
How many luxury goods
The guests at the scene expressed their feelings
This is such a great father.
He felt strongly humiliated at the time.
I feel that my parents' kindness is as heavy as a mountain.
A lifetime is not over
Another netizen grew up
There is also a strong sense of guilt
His parents
I really like to use business language to describe the parent-child relationship.
In this metaphor
Parents are investors or shareholders
He is the company being invested in
Shareholders have the right to view the company's financial statements and operations
So when he tried to maintain some boundaries with his parents
For example, not wanting to share your relationship status
When you refuse your parents to view your diary and chat history
Parents will express strong dissatisfaction
Believe that they should have supervisory power
He has his own room
But you can never lock the door
Parents can come in anytime.
And the room lock is broken
Parents are unwilling to repair
When he tried to assert his rights with his parents
But always rejected by parents
He felt that there was something wrong with what his parents said.
But more often
He couldn't fight the guilt that welled up in him.
Another netizen's family is relatively poor.
Her parents didn't invest much money in her.
She always eats the simplest meals
Wear the cheapest clothes
at the same time
Her parents made extra efforts to take care of her health.
For example, she is never allowed to do housework.
When I was sick, I was very attentive and never left my side.
However
This physical care
But it is often accompanied by brutal denigration and suppression.
Whenever she was disobedient or her grades dropped
Parents will say some very nasty things.
She grew up in humiliation and loneliness.
But I still can't express these hurts.
Because once she mentioned the pain of her childhood
The mother will in turn emphasize her hard work and dedication
Over time
When she tried to find some room for explanation
When you express your feelings
In her heart, she will automatically regard her mother's care as
Converted to market value
For example, if you hire a nanny to take care of you 24 hours a day
18 years of care
Even at a relatively low wage
That's a high fee too.
Think of this
She felt as if she owed her mother too much.
All my demands have become unreasonable.
That's it.
Let’s analyze the logic of this favor.
First, these parents believe
My own kindness
Based on a series of resources that I have contributed unilaterally
Or above capital
This resource can be expressed in the form of money.
For example, your parents pay for your schooling
I've enrolled you in various interest classes.
Bought a piano, a computer, etc.
These resources can be listed
Calculated and quantified
Some more resources
Reflected in the labor time devoted by parents
for example
Your parents do housework for you, cook for you, and send you to school.
Although these labors do not directly cost money
But you can still follow the chef, tutor,
Nanny and care worker salary levels
Convert to an amount
However, no matter what form of resources
Their commonality is that they are quantifiable.
Exclusive and Conservative
In the eyes of many parents
The relationship between parents and children is a zero-sum game
The total amount of resources is limited
It either belongs to you
Either it belongs to me
I gave you 100 yuan
My wallet is missing 100 yuan
I'll cook for you
I sacrificed my own rest time
And a child
for quite a long time
They don't work and can't create wealth.
Even if the child works very hard
But it is unlikely to give parents a visual
Calculated Returns
So children feel that they have been
It is a black hole of ever-expanding deficits.
A debtor
The kindness of parents can be compounded
For example, your parents paid for you to enroll in a training course
This is a cost in itself
The emotional labor that parents put in during this process
For example, worrying and caring are another cost.
If the children do not appreciate
Or they did not achieve the results that their parents were satisfied with.
That's tantamount to breach of contract.
It is equivalent to the child owing an additional penalty for breach of contract.
In short, in the parents' narrative
The children's debts are constantly magnified.
Eventually it becomes a loan shark that can never be repaid.
The only thing a child can offer
Obey your parents' wishes
Provide parents with a short-term emotional value
then
There is no end to a child's shame and guilt.
In this family environment
A child
It is easy to develop a self-aggressive mentality
I feel like my life is meaningless except wasting food
In China we often see
News about children committing suicide because of trivial matters
for example
In 2017, a 10-year-old girl committed suicide in Fengxian County, Jiangsu Province.
In her last words to her parents, she said you beat and scolded me
It's all for my own good
I want to continue taking care of you.
But the teacher didn't let me take the exam
So there is no meaning in living
I just want to go to heaven.
Many Chinese media outlets criticize teachers and schools
At the same time, I feel sorry for the girl's understanding and innocence.
But few people realize
These look innocent and gentle
And considerate parents' last words
This is not the child's autonomous and voluntary emotional expression at all.
It is the result of children completely internalizing their parents' discipline and control.
It is a rather distorted and unnatural state.
If parents could be more tolerant
So even if the school really doesn't let the children take the exam
It doesn't matter.
Many Chinese people appreciate sensible children
It is the lack of love and guilt itself.
As a child's ideal state, natural state
It seems that this is a person's nature
But this is like
It is as foolish to praise a slave who voluntarily died for his monarch.
For example, in ancient China
Some ministers or slaves would be coerced or bribed.
Voluntarily buried with the master
Then their voluntary
It was praised by later generations as a spirit of integrity or loyalty.
We as modern people
I can't appreciate this kind of atmosphere
Because this kind of voluntary is completely false voluntary
It is the result of manipulation and oppression
So
How can we refute the logic of this favor?
First we say
For the development of a person's mental abilities
The most important thing is not the material resources.
or physical care
That can only ensure that a person's body can survive.
However
Pure physical survival
It does not mean that a person's personality really exists.
The latter depends on the individual's psychological
Do you have an integrated and stable self-identity?
A Flexible Emotional System and Social Connections
The source of these abilities
It almost depends on the individual
Emotional interactions with primary caregivers in early life
The baby does not know "who am I" at first.
He has a vague understanding of the boundary between himself and the outside world.
This awareness of “self”
It is through interaction with caregivers that
Gradually built up
Good emotional communication between parents and children
Can make children
Learn how to understand others
How to build intimacy
One can even say
A person's total mental capacity
For example, self-efficacy, the ability to read minds,
Language expression and emotional attunement
All are bred and forged in this furnace.
And it can nourish the person throughout his life.
This is the most valuable intangible resource.
Although the material basis is also important
But in the final analysis
It is just an instrumental value
It only makes sense to serve this kind of emotional coordination
In the field of spiritual communication
Emotion is the most real currency and capital
This currency is compared to real-world currency
A completely different form
First, it is non-exclusive and non-conservative.
It can stimulate each other and continuously increase value
People's emotions are always directed towards an object.
Even if the object is an object
People also anthropomorphize the object through empathy.
Give it emotional color
This empathy is essentially about conveying emotion
That is
People always expect to get emotional feedback from others
When he senses the other person's emotional feedback
The two people resonated
That's the beauty
visible
Emotions can be continuously replicated between two parties.
Expanded and value-added
Rather than being conserved and finite like matter,
So in this emotional currency system
child
No longer a passive consumer and recipient
Rather, it is the subject that can issue currency equally
When parents give children a feeling of love
Children sense this
They are also more attached and closer to their parents
Parents feel that their emotions have gained resonance and resonance
then
This feeling between the two sides is getting deeper and deeper.
However
This emotion is immediately satisfied
When I love someone
I am expressing my love
I already feel a certain satisfaction
I didn't give the other person some kind of love
I feel like I'm missing love
Instead, I feel more loved.
The same is true for trust
When a parent is someone who tends to trust others
In their interactions with children
They tend not to suspect, monitor, or intervene frequently
But in front of the children
Show a relaxed, stable, and tolerant attitude
They'll say, "I know you can handle it."
This is not the same as empty indulgence.
That's just a no-brainer.
Rather than the potential of another person
Have positive perceptions and expectations
Trust makes children feel safe
You can explore the world
No need to worry about the punishment of failure
When parents see their children trust
Become more confident, proactive and independent
They will also learn from their children's growth
Be more confident in yourself
Confirm yourself
This is a virtuous cycle
Curiosity, the desire for knowledge
They do not rely on criticism, indoctrination
Or it is cultivated through interest classes
But in the daily communication and casual conversation between parents
Naturally generated
If the parents themselves are a person who likes to learn,
Active thinkers who are willing to explore
Children can learn from what they see and hear
Feel the wonder of the world
Exploration and perception of new things
It is an everyday emotional state
It is also a pleasant way of life
In the process
Children do not feel that they are being “educated”
But in this atmosphere
This tendency is automatically acquired.
For example, he saw his parents communicating
New terms and concepts often emerge
They will be concerned about an academic issue beyond survival.
Go to discuss the debate
The children will find it interesting.
So we say
Truly good education can only be built on
The emotional interaction between two subjects
Rather than a subject to an object
One-way indoctrination
Those external resources and capital
In the final analysis, it is for
To ensure that this emotional interaction can continue to occur,
Don't be disturbed
But the most fundamental thing
Or is it this emotional interaction itself
Human learning is essentially an interpersonal behavior
With another person
Connecting to another object
We seem to be alone.
Studying through books or computers
But these things
The reason why it can have a mental effect on us
Because there is a person's perspective, emotion and guidance behind it.
The relationship between people and things
It is still a relationship between people.
It is because we believe in the author,
The kindness and ability of teachers and parents
We are willing to trust the content they provide
and resonate, imitate, and integrate with it
Human sociality
It can be said that
It is one of the most profound and advanced abilities of human beings.
This is especially evident in infants.
Compared to other mammals
When a human baby is in danger
He doesn't rely on instinct to find a safe space
To hide oneself
To find my mother
Go find someone stronger or wiser
This is through attachment relationships,
Mechanisms for seeking security through interpersonal relationships
It's very magical
Nature did not evolve humans into an independent
Self-sufficient animals
It's a completely different path.
Everyone is born weak.
Unable to forage for food and protect against risks on their own
But humans have an amazing ability to imitate,
Empathy and language communication skills
The great potential of human beings
It does not come from the strength of individual physical fitness
And it comes precisely from interpersonal relationships
The constant emergence of creativity
In this mechanism
Love, trust, imitation, encouragement, resonance
It forms the foundation of all human morality and culture
And the metaphor of parent-child relationship as investment
and the logic of asking children to return the favor
In fact, it is to quantify material resources
As the key to a person's growth
But what can really touch a person's heart
It can only be another person's heart
Here we mainly discussed
A mutually subjective parent-child relationship
How is it possible?
Next video
Let’s continue chatting
What do parents get from their children?
And why it is said that kindness does not exist at all
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!