T. He . H ello everyone , welcome to experimental news episode 1011 1 on Tuesday January 27 , 202 6. Please stay tuned on January 7 , British pharmaceuticalut company Glaxossmith Klein announced that a new drug it is researching, has proven effective in a 370 patient trial patients with hepatitis B can achieve a functional cure after six months of using the new product. What are your thoughts on Gxosmlein's new drug? The conclusion Glaxoslein's new product is great news for all hepatitis B patients for the past few decades. , a common belief in China has been that hepatitis B is incurable and requires lifelong medication. I myself am a hepatitis B patient who takes medication every day globally. Almost all hepatitis B treatment involves taking nucleide analogs to inhibit viral replication, aiming to clear the virus. The current standard treatment method has a success rate of less than 4 Glaxosmithlein's new drug demonstrates a functional cura bility , meaning that even if patients stop taking the medication, the hepatitis B virus will no longer be detected . Furthermore existing treatment methods have a greater hidden danger drug resistance compared to bacteria. The structure of the hepatitis B virus is simpler for drugs to be effective . O nly ly suppress the virus through a few limited targets . If, the virus undergoes even a slight mutation , the drug will become ineffective . if a patient takes medication, ir regularly , for example, , because they are too busy with work , the virus in their body is likely to mutate . and at that point, they can only switch to a different medication to save their life. In recent years, there have been more aggressive hepatitis B treatment methods, such as interferon therapy. Simply put, this involves forcibly activating the body's immune cells. This therapy is lengthy with treatment course, is generally exceeding one year and is prone to serious side effects, such as a decrease in white blood cell count and thyroid dysfunction, even with such a huge price to pay. Interferon therapy can only increase the cure rate to about 10 %, and there is still a possibility of relapse after stopping the medication to understand the principle of blacksosmithleline's new drug. It is first necessary to understand how the hepatitis B virus works . Hepatitis B is more difficult to treat than other viruses, mainly because its self- replication process produces a large number of surface antigens . These antigens look exactly like real viruses, but they are not infectious. The human immune system cannot recognize them and therefore cannot fight the real hepatitis B virus, The virus needs some materials from human cells to replicated cells since it's impossible to eliminate the virus completely. With . E xis ting antiviral drugs . The next best thing is to camouflage the materials needed by the virus , preventing it from replicating properly . H owever , existing drugs cannot effectively target the virus itself. Issue 165 of sleepy news introduced China's comprehensive treatment plan for hepatitis C , which involves first using nucleide analog drugs to block hepatitis C virus replication, and then using interferon to stimulate the body's immunity. , aiming to quickly eliminate most of the virus Now Glaxossmithlinein's new drug is even more direct . it can destroy the RNA that the virus uses to replicate after the viral replication process is interrupted . the virus can no longer produce surface antigens , and the human immune system can resume normal function. , suppressing the harm caused by the hepatitis C virus to a minimum In addition ,. The cure rate of this new drug can reach up to 20 %, which is 10 % higher than the most ideal existing treatment method . De of economic development have significantly increased the purchasing power of hepatitis C patients in C hina ,. According to Glaxosm, clientline's estimates, the new hepatitis C drug could bring in 2. 7 billion in annual revenue in the future. liver cancer is a major cause of death in China and China accounts for over 40 % of newly diagnosed liver cancer cases and deaths globally. Analyzing the main causes of liver cancer in C hina . 56 % of patients first contracted hepatitis C . T. He new drug can be successfully promoted . It is optimistically, estimated that nearly 90 million people in China will no longer have to worry about liver cancer. If I still want to be an anchor when sleepy news reaches issue, 10000 , I'll probably have to scramble to buy Glaosmklein's shares . does this mean Glaxosmkleline can make money effortlessly by leveraging the purchasing power of Chinese hepatitis C patients, not necessarily because the longterm impact of introducing a more effective new drug is actually eliminating its own market. Let me give you an example of bacteria in the antiviral field . there is another leading company Gillead Sciences. The hepatitis C they dealt with was also a difficult to treat chronic disease. In 2013 Gilead developed a highly effective drug for hepatitis C . So phos pho ir , which directly increased the cure rate of hepatitis C to over 95 %. Patients can be completely cured after only 12 weeks of treatment in the second year after Giead developed its special drug Sovaldi. The global sales of the drug reached nearly 10 . 3 billion and Gilead's total revenue in the same year was 2 4. 4 billion. So all these . Y eah . S ales grew even better , quickly exceeding $ 20b illi on , and Gilead's stock price nearly tripled ,. However, , the good times didn't last long and Gilleaead's stock price began to plummet because its new drug was too effective by 201 6 hepatitis C patients in Europe, and the United States were almost completely cured. Therefore, from that year on , Gilead's stock price began to fall rapidly, and its market value shrank by nearly one -t as an aside while Gillead was synthesizing S oval di ,. It also synthesized a large number of other valuable molecules , one of which was called G s5 73 4 after the decline in Sovaldi sales ,. And Ebola virus outbreak occurred in A frica , and Gillead rediscovered G s5 73 4, believing it could be an effective treatment for E bola ,. This molecule G s5 73 4 later had another name R emd esi vir , which caused huge controversy in China during the C ovi I d- 19 pandemic ,. However, , compared to G ile ad , Blackosmlinein's hepatitis B drug should be able to generate profits for a longer time. First, regarding the cure of hepatitis B . Once hepatitis B is cured. The human body no longer carries the virus, and there is basically no recurrence Hepatitis B is considered functionally cured ,. However, the virus may also lurk in liver cells and can be activated at any time . If, the immune system has problems , hepatitis B patients may need regular testing for the rest of their lives and cannot be completely cleared of the virus . F urth. Erm ore ,. The hepatitis B market is much larger than the hepatitis C market when Gillead's drug was launched ,. There were only about 5 million hepatitis C patients worldwide ,. But now there are more than 250 million hepatitis B carriers worldwide, even if Blacksom Kin's new drug can clear the hepatitis B virus, it will take at least more than a decade. Half of Gilead's income depends on its hepatitis C drug, so its stock price fluctuated significantly after all patients were cured Blacksom Kline's product line is much healthier now. Blacksomlein's total revenue is 30 billion annually , but its hepatitis B drug contributing a maximum of 2 billion equivalent to about 15 % . I . T here fore , being able to cure hepatitis B is a huge breakthrough , and they don't have to worry about running out of a business if they eliminate hepatitis B compared to the risk of a decline in the number of hepatitis B. Patients. Blacklasosmithline is more worried about its Chinese competitors . Gilliad Sciences launched its hepatitis B drug in 2013 , and in less than five years , China launched its own generic drug decclose 10 years ago. , China's new drug research and development industry was just starting out still needing to imitate the technological routes of European and American companies, and developing new drugs wasn't so easy. Now the gap in R & D capabilities between China and other countries as narrowing , and China itself has an astronomical number of hepatitis B carriers, providing a huge market . If Blacksom Kleline proves its success . It's expected that within five years, , Blacklasom Kleline will face competition from local Chinese companies . There are 90 million hepatitis B virus carriers in C hina . One in every person carries the hepatitis B virus . Y eah . H ow did these hepatitis B patients come about , lee ping message episode 165 analyze this problem. , concluding that the hepatitis B virus already existed in the early stages of civilized society . H owever ,. The incubation period for hepatitis B is very long ,. And if the average life expectancy is low, , infected, people may die before the disease develops . Therefore. Before average, life expectancy increased, it was difficult to discover the impact of hepatitis B on health and thus difficult for large - scale transmission to occur ,. It wasn't until the 197 0s that the European and American medical communities finally confirmed that hepatitis B was a separate disease . however, , a generation before humanity understood the hepatitis B virus , China had already built a vast public health system ,. This health system could cope with more terrible epidemics, such as smallpox, , tuberculosis and polio ,. But due to the scarcity of medical equipment, , needles were often reused , only undergoing simple disinfection ,. The hepatitis B virus is very resistant and requires high temperatures and pressure above 120 degrees Celsius to be eliminated, wiping with alcohol and boiling water is basically ineffective for a time developed. Countries had already promoted the use of disposable syringes, which reduced the likelihood of widespread infections Count even less developed in China, simply couldn't afford vaccines, and their local populations lack the conditions for widespread . only in China, where the grassroots medical environment was neither advanced and nor completely backward, did the use of metal needles lead to the explosive spread of hepatitis B virus H by the 198 0s grassroots hospitals in China reduced the sharing of needles , but at the same time, , another problem emerged . the long-term sale of blood or more precisely blood trafficking. Long-term blood referred to here doesn't mean directly drawing blood and selling it, but rather using centrifuges to extract blood components with the other components being reinfuseed into the human body. If the centrifuge equipment was reused repeatedly, it could lead to entire villages in China being infected with hepatitis B and As from 197 0 to 1991 0 % of newborns in China were infected with the hepatitis B virus Furthermore. The rapid spread of hepatitis B in China coincided with the peak of its population growth in 198 120 million babies were born, and by 1987, this increased to 25 million annually. At that time, most Chinese people were unaware that hepatitis B could be transmitted from mother to child. So the number of HV carriers in China increased rapidly China has the highest number of hepatitis B patients globally So. Why wasn't an effective cure for hepatitis B developed earlier because Chinese society only began to understand the dangers of the hepatitis B virus in the 199 . My relatives and I discovered we were carriers of the hepatitis B virus because the entrance physical examination for middle school in 1992 began testing for hepatitis B . The harm of hepatitis B is often amplified by alcohol consumption under normal circumstances , the hepatitis B virus slowly attacks the DNA of liver cells, and the process of liver cancer is quite long, possibly taking decades to manifest. However, if a patient drinks alcohol , the liver's metabolism of alcohol produces ace aldehyde , causing physical damage to the liver . essentially opening the door for the hepatitis B virus to more easily enter the cells's DNA, coupled with long-term alcohol consumption , potentially leading to cirrhosis. These three attacks together significantly increase the risk of liver cancer before the 198 0s, China didn't have much surplus grain, and people didn't even have enough to eat. So it was impossible to drink alcohol freely . therefore, very few people suffered from alcoholic liver disease . However. As China underwent rapid urban , migrant workers had money to buy alcohol and rural areas also had enough grain to supply distilleries . Str liquor became the main past time for young people moving to cities, and for the rural population and alcoholic liver disease began to explode simultaneously against this backdrop of rampant alcohol consumption . the Chinese health authorities soon discovered that nearly 100 million people were infected with the hepatitis B virus. Which could lead to cirrhosis and liver cancer led . P reed attention to the prevention and control of hepatitis B in 198 9 . The Chinese government and Mer and Co signed an agreement purchasing the complete set of hepatitis B vaccine production technology for a low price of US $ 7m illi on. The Beijing Institute of Biological Products undertook the task of producing the domestic Hepatitis B vaccine . I . A fte r training by American company , China was able to mass produce the hepatitis B vaccine by 199 5 in parallel with the domestic vaccine production line. China included the hepatitis B vaccine in its immunization program, starting in 1992 . If. A pregnant woman was infected with the hepatitis B virus ,. Her child had to be vaccinated within 24 hours of . H owever ,. The vaccine is only for prevention . The first antiviral drugs to treat existing hepatitis B infections didn't become available until 199 8 Before that , patients with hepatitis B could only prolong their lives through conservative treatment to reduce transaminase levels and try to restore liver function in a society where traditional Chinese medicine as rampant If. There is a chronic disease with no effect cure various self-proclaimed miracle. Doctors will inevitably jump out to occupy the market . This pattern also applies to hepatitis B. Those born in the 198 0s should still remember the advertisements they saw on various telephone poles and public toilets when they were young beside treating various veneal diseases and skin diseases . the most common advertisements were for traditional Chinese medicine. Doctors claiming to cure hepatitis B even bought traditional Chinese medicine that claim to cure hepatitis B in a large hospital in Beijing for decades. , no herbal medicine has been proven effective against hepatitis B on the contrary, because traditional Chinese medicine often introduces various strange compounds that the liver has to metabolize. It is highly likely to increase the burden on the patient's liver . further increasing the . Of cirrhosis and liver cancer at the time , the lack of medical knowledge among Chinese people led to rampant misuse of traditional Chinese medicine TC, with most of the hepatitis treatment funds being spent on TC Chinese pharmaceutical companies seriously developing antiviral drugs could not make money in the market . Therefore. Most Chinese pharmaceutical factories chose to collude with so- cal traditional Chinese medicine practitioners to produce ineective TC in 199 9 Blacksomlinein's lemudine was launched in China and ineffective TCm for hepatitis treatment began to withdraw from the market . H owever ,. Even today, , many doctors treating hepatitis still strongly recommend, adding inexplicable TCm treatments when prescribing antiviral drugs to patients. Starting in 2011, China began providing free hepatitis B immunoglobulin in vaccines , achieving a 95 % blockage rate of the hepatitis B virus. Hepatitis B drugs became a niche market in C hina . therefore, for a long time, , China lacked the motivation to develop hepatitis B drugs only gradually catching up after European and American companies provided development directions. So. What are the potential competitors to Gxosm Kline's hepatitis B drugs behind Blackxosm K lei n , the aforementioned leading antiviral drug company. Gillead has the fastest progress . Gillead currently has two main hepatitis B line. O ne is to know if you're alla fh eno mide , originally a drug for treating hepatitis C , which can prevent the hepatitis B virus from entering liver cells and is currently in phase 3 clinical trials. ,. The other is an oral drug number GS 96 88 , whose mechanism of action is similar to interferon , activating the body's immune system to fight the virus, but with fewer side effects , GS 96 88 is currently in Ph 2 clinical trials if it can be approved for listing and used in combination with Glaxosm Klein's new drug , it can further suppress the hepatitis B virus . I . B esi des these two superpharmaceutical companies ,. There are over 50 companies worldwide, developing new drugs, targeting Blacksosmith Klinein's products with nine drugs, reaching phas e2 or three clinical trials. ,. 10 of these drugs are from China and 14 are from the United S tates ,. Although Chinese pharmaceutical companies are temporarily lagging behind Blacksosmith Klein, they may catch up with Gilead. For example, , the AhhB 13 7 developed by biotech , which targets the hepatitis B virus, reverse transcriptase and liver acid, and has now reached phase 3 clinical trials. Howbo medical was founded in 2009, headquartered in Hangzhou, with offices in the United S tates ,. It has operations in both China and the U based on clinical data habo medicals products have a cure rate of 30 % potentially outperforming Blacksosmith Klein's products. Many new drugs are expensive when they first entered the market, So can ordinaryd Chinese people afford these new drugs In. The past , the cost of innovative drugs for hepatitis C treatment in China was approximately 5000 0 to 10000 yu after insurance negotiations ,. The price could be reduced by a quarter to around 300 00 to 8000 u. Considering that domestic companies have already entered the hepatitis C field Blacksom Kline and Gilead's price reductions may be rapid and significant For example , Mars K eru da , which just entered the Chinese market in 2018, was priced at around 1800 0u . A fte r domestically produced products enter the market ,. The price quickly dropped and now Chinese people can use domestically produced monoclonal antibody drugs from only 300 0 to 4000 yuan in the hepatitis C field ,. Since a local company like Habo medical provides effective competition ,. It may only take 2t o3 years for new hepatitis C drugs to be included in the national medical insurance catalog. A simple calculation of the treatment cost for liver cancer and cirrhosis shows that new hepatitis C drugs can save a significant amount of medical insurance funds. , China has 4500 00 new cases of liver cancer every year. Treatment costs vary greatly depending on the stage of the disease for early stage liver cancer. ,. The surgical cost is generally around 8000 to 1200 0 yu for advanced liver cancer ,. The annual cost of targeted therapy and immunotherapy is approximately 1000 to 2000. Yu. If a patient undergoes a liver transplant , the cost can be even higher based on an average cost of 1500 0 for early and middle stageage liver cancer, the annual cost of liver cancer treatment in China is nearly 6 7.5 billion yu with almost 75 % covered by medical insurance If. The cost of new hepatitis C drugs is 30. The annual savings in medical insurance funds would be nearly 50 billionu, and this doesn't even include the increased productivity gains from patients recover from hepatitis C . Therefore. Even if new hepatitis C drugs are priced at 1000 . the Chinese society will still benefit significantly . Y eah . So. The sooner a new generation of hepatitis C drugs comes to market ,. The better letting British company Glaxsosmithklein earn a large sum of money would be like giving their R & D team. A bonus . Blacksosmithklein is not a charity , but a publicly traded capitalist company whose sole goal is to make money. However, , judging from the development of the hepatitis C cure and the previous development of the highly effective drug for hepatitis B . capitalism also has many advantages . First. As long as there are enough patients , there will definitely be companies that will step forward to research effective treatments . Secondly. Many people might imagine that the most rational choice for a company to make big profits is not to completely cure the disease , but to control the drug's efficacy or the release rate , so that patients keep paying while ensuring the virus continues to spread , thus ensuring sustainable profits ,. However, , the reality of international capitalism encourages competition and patent protection for pioneers is very limited for a company to apply for a drug patent. It must disclose its treatment principles, , and it can only receive protection for a limited time . Therefore. It is impossible for a company to use its technological advantage to prolong the global epidemic and slowly make money. If you don't adequately supply. The effective drug ,. Others will quickly develop similar products and compete for the market . even though companies know that others will compete for the market and follow their . path. They still try to be the leader, because being the leader always provides an opportunity to earn super profits for a few years . perhaps the money earned can be used to develop advanced products in another field, still guaranteeing highpros and high stock prices without being a leader. They don't even have this opportunity. These three characteristics may not be good news for specific companies, but they provide vitality to the entire capitalist system and allow me a patient with a chronic disease to see hope for a cure, even before it becomes widely available. If someone dislikes these multinational corporations profiting from other people's illnesses, criticizing them from a moral high ground is useless a more humane and dynamic research. And development system is needed to replace capitalism before that I want to express my gratitude to Gxosm, Klinein and other companies that are working hard to develop new drugs. Finally, as a hepatitis C patients, I want to remind viewers that including Blackossmith Klein's products, there are nearly 30 effective drugs for hepatitis C under development worldwide and all have entered clinical phase two and three trials. Curing hepatitis C is not a myth nor a distant future, but a realistic goal that can be achieved within a few years. If any, viewers or their family members have this condition, do not trust any traditional Chinese medicine practitioners . Annc remedies for back problems be patient and try to reduce your burden. , only focus on clinical trial data approved by regulatory agencies. This is the to emin, the for concludes . 1011 .