今年我们进行了两次国际旅行。
We took two international trips this year.
8月去爱尔兰8天，
8 days in Ireland in August
11月在墨西哥的Peurto Vallarta旅行12天。
12 days in Peurto Vallarta, Mexico in November. 
这次在墨西哥可以说
This trip in Mexico was arguably 
是我们长时间以来最快乐的一次旅行。
the happiest we've had in a long time. 
我们住在一个普通的Airbnb里。
We live in a regular Airbnb. 
这是像亲人一样的房东Gueillmo
This is the family-like host Gueillmo 
和他的妻子Veronica，
and his wife Veronica. 
他们每天为我们做不重样的早餐，无微不至。
They make different breakfasts for us every day, and they take care of everything. 
在Guiermo的Airbnb里
In Guiermo's Airbnb
我们遇到了来自不同地方的旅行者，
we met travellers from different places,
很快我们就像家人们一样打成一片。
 and soon we bonded like family. 
我们每天一起吃饭，喝酒，聊天,
We ate, drank, chatted, 
分享自己的故事，
shared our stories every day, 
一起挤在Gueillmo超载的车里
and huddled together in Gueillmo's "overloaded" car 
去看小海龟放归大海。
to see baby sea turtles released into the sea. 
我们所有人坐在一起有说有笑
We all sat together talking and laughing
就好像一个大家庭一样。
like one big family. 
这是一种难以言表的美好。
This is beyond words.
从墨西哥回来后
After returning from Mexico
我们依然沉浸在旅行带来的兴奋之中，
we were still soaking up the excitement of our trip.
很快就预定了明年3月底到5月初在欧洲的行程。
Soon, I booked my trip in Europe from the end of March to the beginning of May next year.
买完机票后我突然有了一些犹豫，
 After buying the ticket, I suddenly had some hesitation. 
那就是我们这样追求旅行算是一种消费主义吗?
So is our pursuit of travel a form of consumerism?
作为一名长期的投资者
As a long-term invester
一个在自己YouTube频道里
 and a financial YouTuber who preaches 
宣扬摒弃消费主义的财经博主，
the rejection of consumerism on his YouTube channel, 
我不可避免的会考虑旅行对个人财务的影响。
I can't help but consider the impact of travel on my personal finances. 
我们经常听人说，
We often hear people say, 
”旅行是对自己最好的投资，
"Travel is the best investment in yourself, 
钱花到经历上要比花到东西上更加有意义”，
and money spent on experiences is more meaningful than money spent on things." 
然而一个不可回避的现实是，
However, an inescapable reality is
旅行是很贵的。
that travel is expensive.
如果旅行是对自己的投资，
If travel is an investment in myself,
那么我的回报到底是什么？
what exactly is my return?
抛开成本不说，旅行确实是能给人带来很多的好处。
Regardless of the cost, traveling can indeed bring many benefits to people. 
比如，旅行能让你走出自己的舒适圈，挑战自我，
For example, traveling allows you to step out of your comfort zone, challenge yourself, 
扩大自己的视野并且破解无知。
expand your horizons and decipher ignorance.
在去墨西哥之前好多朋友都觉得墨西哥很危险,
 Before going to Mexico, many friends thought that Mexico was very dangerous,
建议我们不要选择自助行，
and suggested that we should choose those all-inclusive resort hotels
应该选择那些全包的度假酒店。
instead of self-service travel.
但是当我们到达Puerto Vallarta后
But when we got to Puerto Vallarta, 
发现至少这个地方十分安全，
at least THIS place was safe, 
人们十分友善和包容，
the people were friendly and accommodating, 
每个人脸上都充满了笑容。
everyone had a smile on their faces.
我太太是一个恐惧社交的人
My wife has a bit of social anxiety.
但是新环境促使她和别人交流，解决问题，
but the new environment forced her to communicate with others, solve problems,
学习当地的文化。
and learn about the local culture.
她这次旅行的目的之一
One of the goals of her trip is 
就是重启我们之前的摄影频道。
to relaunch our old photography channel. 
在当地录制节目让她挑战了自我获得了自信。
Recording videos in a different country allowed her to challenge herself and gain confidence. 。
而对我来说，
And for me, 
这次旅行让我决心学习西班牙语。
this trip made me decide to learn Spanish.
因为墨西哥离加拿大很近，
Because Mexico is very close to Canada, 
未来我会经常来这儿旅行和居住。
 I will often travel and live here in the future.
掌握西班牙语能给我带来更多的机会和可能。
Mastering Spanish can bring me more opportunities and possibilities.
这是来自加拿大魁北克的Valerie,
 This is Valerie from Quebec, Canada. 
她经常和房东用西班牙语沟通。
She often communicates with the host in Spanish. 
她告诉我她的语言学习方法是
She told me that her language learning method is
旅行前先参加课程，
to take courses before traveling
到了目的地之后尽量使用当地的语言。
and try to use the local language when she arrives at the destination.
核心重点就是高强度学习加上实战语言环境。
The core focus is high-intensity learning plus language environment。
于是回来后我就选择了Lingoda在线语言课程,
So when I came back, I chose Lingoda's online language course, 
也有幸获得了它们对本期影片的赞助，
and I was fortunate enough to get their sponsorship for this video,
为大家提供超级优惠。
providing you with great discounts.
老观众都知道我曾经是托福雅思老师,
Old viewers know that I used to be a TOEFL IELTS teacher, 
也经营过网络课程。
and also made online courses.
Lingoda最吸引我的地方有两点:
There are two things that attract me most about Lingoda: 
第一是它独特的Sprint冲刺班计划。
The first is its unique "Sprint Plan". 
那就是在两个月内，每个月参加15或30个课程，
That is, within two months, take 15 or 30 courses a month, 
你可以拿回50%甚至是100%的学费。
then you can get back 50% or even 100% of the tuition.
这个计划真的很天才。
This plan is truly genius. 
作为曾经的老师，
As a former teacher,
我很清楚网络自学的最大问题是
I know very well that the biggest problem with online self-study
学生买了课程之后就开始懈怠,
is that students start to slack off after buying courses 
不去上课。
and don’t go to class.
最终没学到东西，
In the end, they didn't learn anything, 
浪费钱进而影响课程的评价。
wasted money and affected the evaluation of the course. 
课程提供者更希望的是学生积极参与把课上完，
What course providers rather want is that students actively participate in the class, 
最后提供客观正面的反馈达到学生和平台的双赢。
truly learn from the courses, finally provide objective and positive feedback to achieve a win-win situation for students and the platform. 
Lingoda的这个返现计划很好的解决了这个问题，
Lingoda's cashback program solves this problem very well,
这也反应了他们对自己课程的信心。
which also reflects their confidence in their courses. 
因为只要课程足够好，学生有收获，
Because as long as the courses are good enough and students gain something, 
那么一定有人会为知识付费。
people will choose to pay for knowledge!
我选择的就是这个100%Cash Back的冲刺班，
 I chose this 100% Cash Back sprint class, 
因为它正好满足我想要的高强度学习模式。
because it just meets the high-intensity learning mode I want. 
两个月后我会和大家汇报我的学习进度。
After two months, I will report my study progress to everyone. 
Lingoda吸引我的第二点
The second thing that attracts me to Lingoda is that 
老师都是母语等级，而且是以小班或者一对一教学，
they are all native level teachers in small classes or one-on-one teaching,
都以所学的语言授课，
and they all teach in the target language,
最大程度上提供语言环境。
providing a language environment to the greatest extent. 
而且老师们真的非常强调互动，
And the teachers really put a lot of emphasis on interaction, 
确保每个学生都有发言和练习的机会。
making sure every student has a chance to speak and practice. 
Lingoda每节课1个小时，
Each Lingoda class is 1 hour, 
无论你在哪个时区都能Book到合适的时间。
no matter which time zone you are in, you can book the right time. 
现阶段Lingoda有英文和商务英文，
Currently Lingoda has courses in English and Business English, 
西班牙语，德语和法语课程。
Spanish, German and French. 
大家使用我视频评论区的推荐链接和折扣码
Please use the referral link and the discount code in the comments section of my videos to get 
能获得冲刺班的€20或$25USD的折扣。
 €20or$25USD off the Sprint programs.
相比于任何其它消费,
Compared with any other spending,
在教育上花钱绝对是一个人对自己最好的投资。
Spending money on education is definitely the best investment a person can make in himself than any other expense. 
OK, 除了开阔自己的眼界和丰富经历，
OK, in addition to broadening our horizons and enriching our experiences, 
旅行可以让我们更有创造力和活力。
traveling can make us more creative and energetic. 
研究发现全新的环境,语言,文化,和社交
Research has found that new environments, languages, cultures, and social interactions 
会给我们的大脑不断提供新的刺激，
will constantly provide our brains with new stimuli, 
促使大脑生成新的突触,
prompting the brain to generate new synapses, 
让我们把新旧知识结合起来形成新的想法，
allowing us to combine new and old knowledge to form new ideas, 
让我们更有适应力。
 making us more adaptable. 
同时旅行让我们从固有的环境中跳出来，
 At the same time, travel allows us to jump out of our daily environment,
摆脱每天面对的压力得到放松。
 get rid of the pressure we face every day and relax. 
旅行的另外一个重要的好处，
Another important benefit of traveling, 
至少对我来说，
at least for me, 
是在旅途中遇到的那些人和事儿。
is the people and things I meet along the way.
通过和不同人的交流让我知道人生的不同可能性，
Through the communication with different people, I know the different possibilities of life, ，
并对自己的人生做出审视和调整。
and I can examine and adjust my life.
所以，这些旅行的好处值得我们投入这些金钱和时间吗?
So, are the benefits of travel worth the investment of money and time? 
这个答案既是肯定的也是否定的。
The answer is both yes and no. I
它取决于你对旅行的定义和旅行的目的。
 It depends how you define travel and the purpose of travel. 
我们必须要明确的是，
We must be clear that in contemporary society, 
在当代社会，旅行首先是一个消费行为。
travel is first and foremost a consumption behavior. 
当我们谈旅行的时候
when we talk about travel
往往不是指宗教朝圣, 游学,贸易或者放牧；
we often don't mean religious pilgrimage, study tours, trade or herding;
我们大多数的旅行是”以追求享乐为目的消费行为”,
most of our travel is "for pleasure" 
并且比较昂贵。
and relatively expensive. 
然而和物质消费不同的是,
However, unlike material consumption, 
旅行更容易被”荣光“化, 被”高尚“化。
 travel is more likely to be "glorified" and "noblized". 
我刚才提到的所有的的好处都可以被作为去旅行的借口。
All the benefits I just mentioned can be used as an excuse to travel. 。
当我们在物质上过度消费时,
When we over-consume on material stuff, 
我们很容易能查觉这是”消费主义“作祟，
we can easily detect that this is caused by "consumerism",
断舍离就没那么难接受；
and it is not so difficult to go for "minimalism"
但是当我们受到文化名流,
but when we are influenced by cultural celebrities, 
社交红人以及朋友圈的影响把钱花在”经历”和”眼界”上的时候，
social celebrities and friends to spend money when it comes to "experience" and "vision", 
我们很容易把在旅行上的过度消费“正当化”,
it is easy for us to "justify" the excessive consumption of travel. 
旅行成为很多人”生活方式“里的最高优先级，
 Travel has become the highest priority in many people's "lifestyle",
甚至是不可妥协的底线。
 even the bottom line that cannot be compromised.
我当然不是说人们不应该去旅行。
I'm certainly not saying people shouldn't travel. 
我想说的是我们首先应该把旅行按照它的原本消费属性来对待,
What I want to say is that we should first treat travel according to its original consumption attributes, 
不需要给它妖魔化, 更没必要将其高尚化,
 there is no need to demonize it, let alone noble it, 
把它变成“快乐”,“学识””成功”和”人生意义”的符号。
and turn it into "happiness", "knowledge", "success" and " meaning of life".
这样我们才能做到理性消费, 避免消费主义的陷阱。
Only in this way can we achieve rational consumption and avoid the trap of consumerism.
如果自身条件不允许旅行,
If travel is not an option,
先把资金和时间花在教育、事业和投资上更有意义。
 it makes more sense to spend money and time on education, career and investment first. 
即使不能去很多地方旅行，
Even if we can't travel a lot,
我们也没必要觉得”错过了”什么。
we don't have to feel like we're "missing out" 
我一直觉得这个世界上没有哪种经历是必须的，
I have always felt that there is no kind of experience in this world that is a "must", 
我们更不会真的”错过什么”。
and we will not really "miss out on anything".
因为每个人的时间都是一样的，
Because time is fair to everyone,
但是经历是不同的。
 but each person's experience is different. 
在同样的时间里，你经历了A就注定错过B。
if you experience A, you are doomed to miss B.
所谓”一生必须进行一次环球旅行“
The so-called "must travel around the world once in a lifetime" 
只不过是别人植入到我们大脑里的人生目标罢了；
is just a life goal implanted in our brains by others;
等未来SpaceX星际旅行技术成熟了，
when SpaceX interstellar travel technology matures in the future, 
“一生一定要去趟月球”的说法肯定会变得流行，
the saying "must go to the moon in a lifetime" will definitely become popular, 
也一定有些人会从太空中找到人生的意义，
and There must be some people who will find the meaning of life from space, 
在眺望地球的时候得到心灵的洗涤。
and get "epiphany" when looking at the earth.
我们不能忽略成本谈意义。
We cannot ignore cost and talk about meaning.
比如，我刚才说的那些旅行的好处，
For example, many of the benefits of travel I just mentioned 
很多都有更经济更加高效的替代品。
have more economical and efficient alternatives. 
跳出舒适圈挑战自我的方式有很多种，
There are many ways to challenge yourself outside your comfort zone,
但是旅行的时候住最好的酒店全程被安排不是任何挑战;
 but staying in the best hotel when traveling is not any challenge; 
想要增加创造力？读书甚至是玩游戏也能帮你实现。
want to increase creativity? Reading a book or even playing a game can help you do that too. 
我个人最喜欢的一种激活大脑的方式
One of my personal favorite ways to activate the brain 
就是长时间的散步或者开车一天能往返的短途旅行。
is to go for a long walk or take a day trip nearby. 
经济实惠。想要遇见不同的人甚至结交新的朋友？
Want to meet different people or even make new friends? 
有太多的社会和志愿活动可以提供这种机会，
There are so many social and voluntary activities that offer this kind of opportunity,
而由此获得的友谊可能更加长久。旅行不是“必须品”，
and the resulting friendships are likely to last longer. 
它首先是个消费品，甚至是个奢侈品。
Travel is not a "necessity", it is first and foremost a consumable, even a luxury.
那“旅行是对自己的投资”这句话错了吗？
So is the saying "travel is an investment in yourself" wrong?
当然不，我这里想说的是，
Of course not, what I want to say here is that
旅行这种”投资”不是一种被动投资。
the "investment" of travel is not a passive investment. 
如果你认为网上说的那些旅行的好处
If you think that the benefits of travel that people say out there
单纯依靠”完成各种打卡清单“就能自动获取，
can be automatically obtained simply by "completing the bucket list", 
那么你可能是在为所谓的”经历“, ”文化“ 和”意义”支付昂贵的代价。
then you may be overpaying for the so-called "experience", "culture" and "meaning". 
想要真正把旅行变成一种投资，
To truly turn travel into an investment, 
我们需要有意识来经营它, 让它超越消费本身,
 we need to manage it consciously, 
定义我们想要的回报。
let it go beyond consumption itself, and define the return we want. 
这种旅行叫做 Intentional Travelling,
This kind of travel is called Intentional Traveling,
有主动意识的旅行。
 travel with purposes. 
我们要诚实的面对自己旅行的原因和目的，
We be honest with outselves about why we travel,
区分需求和欲望，
distinguish needs and wants,
明白旅行中的什么东西对自己最有意义,
and understand what is most meaningful to us in the trip, 
我究竟要从这场旅行中获得什么。
and what exactly do I want to get from this trip.
那这里我们可以把旅游和旅行这两个词人为的做一个区分。
Here we should distinguish the two words tourism and travel.
当我说旅游的时候就是单纯指这个消费行为；
When I say travel, I simply refer to this consumption behavior;
当我说旅行的时候是指这种”有主动意识的旅行“。
when I say travel, I refer to this kind of "intentional travel". 
为了帮助大家更好的理解，
 In order to help you better understand, 
我这里就分享一下我的Intentional Travelling原则，
I will share my Intentional Traveling principles here,
希望能给你一些启发:
hoping to give you some inspiration:
旅行之前我会先问自己，
Before traveling, I would ask myself, 
我是去纯粹消费性的旅游还是对自己投资性的“旅行”?
am I travelling purely for consumption or for investment in myself? 
如果是前者，那么我就会像对待消费品一样合理消费，
 If it is the former, then I will consume rationally like consumer goods, 
不让它造成财务压力，
so as not to cause financial pressure 
不让它影响我个人的投资，
or let It affects my personal investment, 
更不会受社交媒体的影响而去旅游。
and I will not be influenced by social media to travel.
我个人已经把朋友圈等社交媒体关闭超过一年了。
Personally, I have shut down social media such as WeChat Moments for more than a year. 
我发现当你花了钱但没有地方晒的时候，
I found that when you spend money but have no place to show it, 
消费就被剔除了社会性,
consumption is stripped of its social elements 
回到了它功能性的本质，
and returns to its functional essence,
我们就不容易跳进消费主义的陷阱。
so we are not easy to fall into the trap of consumerism. 
当你做到去旅行而不在朋友圈发任何一张照片的时候，
When you manage to travel without posting any photos in Moments,
旅行的意义突然就变了。
the meaning of travel suddenly changes.
那如果我决定是去做有主动意识的旅行，
Then if I decide to take an Intentional trip 
让它变成对自己的投资,
and make it an investment in myself, 
我会定义以下四个目的:
 I will define the following four purposes: 
第一, 学习。学习书本上学不到的东西或者一门新的语言。
First, Learn. Learn something you can't learn in a book or a new language.
当代信息的发达能
The development of the Internet
让我们不需要像贵族一样去通过昂贵的旅行学习。
allows us to learn without expensive travel like the nobles. 
大多数的知识我们都能通过书籍和网络来便宜高效地获取，
We can obtain most of the knowledge cheaply and efficiently through books and the Internet, 
甚至有更好的体验。
 and even have a better experience. 
当我们跑到卢浮宫看蒙娜丽莎的时候，
When we go to the Louvre to see the Mona Lisa, 
大概率看到的是别人的后脑勺。
we most likely see the back of someone else's head. 
所以，在当代如果想要通过旅行来学习，
Therefore, if we want to learn through travel in the contemporary era, 
我们真的必须要先读书
we really have to read books first 
才能知道我们去一个地方到底要学什么看什么。
to know what we need to learn and see when we go to a place.
在过去半年的时间里，
 in the past six months,
我一直在阅读欧洲的经济金融史，
 I have been reading the economic and financial history of Europe,
这次旅行的路线会和我读的这些东西密切相关；
and the route of this trip will be closely related to these things I read; 
第二, 寻求自我改变，考虑换一种活法的可能性。
Second, seek self-change and consider the possibility of changing your way of life.
我这次去墨西哥以及未来去欧洲和亚洲的目的之一
One of the purposes of my trip to Mexico this time and future trips to Europe and Asia 
就是探索未来在加拿大之外长期生活的可能性。
is to explore the possibility of long-term living outside of Canada in the future.
我特别信一句老话，那就是”树挪死,人挪活”。
I especially believe in an old saying, that is, "If trees are moved, they die; If a person moves, he thrives"
反思我的过去，我人生每次大的改变都伴随着搬家。
Reflecting on my past, every major change in my life was accompanied by a move.
每换一个地方我都会重新获得生命力，完成人生的另一个跳跃。
 Every time I change places, I regain my vitality and complete another leap in life. 
第三, 创作。这个YouTube频道就是我的创作平台。
Third, creation. This YouTube channel is my creative platform.。
我的一个梦想是未来能拍出自己满意的纪录片。
One of my dreams is to be able to make documentaries in the future. 
这些旅行是我的拍摄练兵场。
These trips are my practice ground. 
这次去墨西哥我有尝试制作这样类型的节目，
This time I went to Mexico to try to produce this type of video, 
发现自己还有很多不足，
but found that I still have a lot of shortcomings, 
缺乏外景拍摄制作的知识。
lack of knowledge of location shooting and production. 
这些都是我去欧洲之前需要学习和计划的。
These are all things I need to study and plan before going to Europe. 
第四, 探索新的投资机会。
Fourth, explore new investment opportunities.
老观众都知道，我有股票和房地产投资，经营Airbnb.
Old audiences know that I have stocks and real estate investments, and I run Airbnb. 
每到一个新的地方我都会观察下当地的房地产和旅游市场，
Every time I go to a new place, I will observe the local real estate and tourism market,
新的生意点子和趋势并且建立一些联系，寻找投资的可能性。
 new business ideas and trends, and establish some contacts to find investment possibilities. 
那以上四点就决定了我去旅行时的路线和视角，
The above four points determine my travel route and perspective, cost control, 
成本控制，以及所接触的人和事儿。
 and the people and things I come into contact with.
你这样的旅行和工作有什么区别吗？
is there any difference between your travel and work? 
有必要搞得那么累吗？
Is it necessary to be so tired? 
对，我赞同。
I agree. 
这就是为什么我认为“纯消费的旅游”
That's why I don't think 
没有任何先天性的问题。
there is any inherent problem with "pure consumption tourism". 
只不过，我个人的经历告诉我，
However, my personal experience tells me that
旅游带来的快乐并不持久，
the happiness brought by travel is not long-lasting, 
它更不能帮助我们从厌倦的工作和生活中永久逃避，
 nor can it help us permanently escape from boring work and life, 
也不一定能解决家庭成员之间的矛盾。
nor can it necessarily solve the conflicts among family members.
同其它的消费品一样，它有很多替代品。
Like any other consumer product, it has many substitutes. 
而对我来说，
For me, 
这种有主动意识的旅行投资能给我带来更持久的快乐,
this kind of conscious travel investment can bring me more lasting happiness, 
有意义的个人成长甚至财务上的回报。
 meaningful personal growth and even financial returns.
它更有生命力, 更加可持续。
It's more alive, it's more sustainable. 
很多人说乔布斯年轻时去印度的旅行改变了他的人生，
Many people say that Steve Jobs' trip to India changed his life when he was young,
爱因斯坦的国际旅行影响了他的科学理论，
Einstein's international travels influenced his scientific theories, 
JK罗琳在从曼彻斯特到伦敦旅行的火车上
 and JK Rowling wrote the first book of the Harry Potter series 
写了哈利波特系列的第一本。
on the train traveling from Manchester to London. 
这些都是人们用来证明”旅行是投资”的例子。
These are all examples that people use to prove that "travel is an investment". 
然而可惜的是,
 Unfortunately, 
我们每个人都可能一不小心
many of us may easily 
就都把这些有意识的旅行同消费性质的旅游混为一谈。
confuse these intentional travels with consumer tourism. 
OK，最后我想强调的是
OK, the last thing I want to stress is that
我并不是在批判纯消费的旅游,
I am not criticizing pure consumption tourism,
我的目的是想告诉大家Intentional Travelling的可能性，
my purpose is to tell you the possibility of intentional travelling, 
为大家开拓思路，避免消费主义陷阱。
open up ideas for you, and help you avoid the trap of consumerism.
那我也很想知道你对旅行是怎么看的,
I would also like to know what you think about travel, 
你旅行的目的和意义是什么?
what is the purpose and the meaning of your travel? 
欢迎大家在评论区留言。
Welcome to leave a message in the comment area. 
再次感谢Lingoda对本视频的赞助，
Thanks again to Lingoda for sponsoring this video, 
感谢大家的收看，我们下次再见!
thank you all for watching, see you next time!