My name is Chris Bailey and 
I'm the author of Intentional:  
How to Finish What You Start and Hyperfocus.
Chapter one, intentionality 
and how it shapes our goals.
There's a lot of productivity advice out there, 
but for every minute you spend reading about it or  
listening to somebody talking about it or watching 
some video uh about somebody talking about it,  
uh you have to make that time back and then 
some. And not all productivity advice falls  
into that category. A lot of it's just fluff. A 
lot of it's kind of, you know, stuff that sounds  
good in theory but doesn't really hold water 
in practice. And what I found is that the best  
advice, it tends to come rather predictably from 
a few places. The first is the research. It's the  
academic literature about human performance, 
especially in the workplace. But there's also  
the experimental aspect. So, I love using myself 
as almost a a human guinea pig so that I can push  
on the limits of what I'm able to accomplish 
mentally and physically each and every day.  
So, these experiments have spanned the gamut from 
working 90-hour weeks to watching 300 TED talks in  
a week to meditating for 35 hours over the course 
of a week. All to to push on these boundaries and  
get to the bottom of what is the secret to 
being productive. And since I can remember,  
I've always had the same answer, which is 
that being more productive is a process of  
becoming more intentional about how we spend our 
time, our attention, and our energy, which I see  
as the three ingredients of productivity. 
When it comes to the goals that we attain,  
intention matters more than any other factor 
in determining whether we'll attain our goals.  
You know, there's that quote from Wayne Gretzky 
where we miss 100% of the shots we don't take,  
even though there's a 1 to 5% probability of 
us scoring. And intention is the same way,  
right? There's the saying that the road to hell 
is paved with good intentions. But yet, but yet  
whenever we do find ourselves having achieved 
something that we set out to do, there was  
always an intention behind it. This is pictured 
beautifully I think in the intention stack. The  
different layers of intention that are in our 
life are almost stacked on top of one another.  
At the top here you'll see our values, right? 
Which are these broader deeper motivations that  
we have in our life. Values sit at the top of the 
intention stack for a big big reason. They're the  
ultimate intentions that we're after in our life. 
Underneath that are the priorities that we have,  
right? Becoming healthier, um make more money, 
whatever the priorities might look like.  
Then we have our goals, our traditional 
goals, which are these broader stories,  
narratives of change that we're driving forward in 
our life. Beneath our goals, you'll see our plans,  
right? The the the plans that make our goals a 
reality. And then finally at the bottom we have  
our present intentions. So for example maybe you 
have a goal of running a marathon but that might  
lead to certain plans that you have further 
down the intention stack which might be run  
this number of miles or kilometers this week and 
then that might flow into the present intentions  
the daily intentions that you have to go for a 
run after lunch today. But when you look up the  
intention stack, you'll see that the goal that 
you have to run a marathon, it can fit with your  
priorities and your values as well. So it might 
fit with the priority of becoming healthier,  
for example. It might fit with your broader value 
of accomplishment. And so this completes the full  
stack of what this goal means to you. It's not 
just about the goal. It's about what the plans are  
that the goal leads to and the daily actions that 
it will lead to as well. It's about the priorities  
that it fits with, the broader values that are in 
your life that it fits with too. And so we need  
all of these different layers of intentionality. 
A goal is not enough. We need our values. We need  
our daily actions as well. And in this way, a goal 
becomes the the route that our daily actions can  
take to connect with who we are. So we don't 
always achieve our intentions. But when we do  
achieve something, there was intention behind it. 
And that's why intentionality is so critical to  
shape, right? It's a skill that we can get better 
at. We can incrementally improve our ability to  
shape our intentions to deepen our intentions, 
to align them with the values that we have,  
to overcome the aversion that we have to doing 
them, to beat the procrastination that leads us to  
put them off. And best yet, over time, we can make 
them more aligned with our values and who we are.  
One of the things that surprised me about 
the nature of intentionality going deep into  
the research on it is that there's two types of 
intentions. So an intention at a fundamental level  
is just a plan that we will do something. When you 
think about it, we set plans both deliberately,  
thoughtfully, but we also set them just out of 
default on autopilot mode as well. So the default  
intentions that we have are embedded within us. 
They're our habits. In other words, so you know,  
we're laying down in bed and our phone wakes us up 
and so we bounce around between a stable of apps.  
There is a certain part of us that sets a plan 
to do the next thing even though it's just a a  
response to what happened before to a certain 
set of conditions that came before. So the two  
types of intentions default and deliberate. 
The more deliberate intentions that we set,  
the more we choose where to go. And we often 
also have these these moments of awakening that  
uh happen in our day. So take the scenario where 
you're laying down in bed, you're swiping around  
between apps on your phone on default uh intention 
driven forward by that habit energy. Eventually,  
there will come a point where it's like, "Okay, 
time to put the phone down. What do I want to  
do now? What do I actually want to get out of 
this day? Do I want to make myself an omelette  
and then read a book? Do I want to, you know, 
get a coffee and then go to work? Do I want to,  
you know, say hi to the kids? Do whatever it might 
be." We set an intention when we snap out of that  
default mode and enter into that deliberate 
mode and we choose where to go forward. This  
is why one of the most meaningful questions you 
can ask yourself is what is the most meaningful  
thing I could be doing right now in this moment? 
You know, we have all these different currencies  
that we try to optimize for in our lives without 
even realizing it. So we're at work and we're  
optimizing for accomplishment and productivity. 
We get home and we optimize for meaning. You know,  
extracting more meaning out of the experiences 
that we have. And so intention is such that we  
often need to take one step back before we 
decide where we wish to move forward. And  
I think that's the key to keep in mind. If you're 
wanting to make more meaningful memories at home,  
take that step back and really consider what is 
the most meaningful thing that I could be doing  
next after I'm done with this current thing? 
Should I pick up the phone and call a friend  
that I haven't connected with in a while? Should 
I just give my wife or husband a hug? You know,  
whatever it might look like. There are a thousand 
potential futures that we could have at work,  
at home. Sometimes we have to just work within 
the autonomy that we do have which is constrained  
often. But when we do have that ability to 
actually take charge and choose where we go,  
that is the time to root ourselves down and 
really decide thoughtfully what do I want  
that will make me more productive or allow me to 
extract more meaning out of my next experience.  
So every intention has a different source, 
duration, strength and depth. So first of all  
we have the source. The beautiful thing about 
intentionality is our intentions come from  
a whole host of places. Some of them this deep 
rooted conditioning that we have and others more  
deliberate. We have these default intentions that 
are embedded within us because of our biology, for  
example. So, if you're on a road trip and you need 
to stop at a rest room, you you set an intention  
to make a pit stop the next chance you get. Um the 
the social environments we're a part of, we catch  
the the the social conditioning that other people 
have. If we join a new company and people there,  
you know, don't love going to the the the bar 
after work like they did at the previous company,  
that will inform the intentions that we have. 
We'll set fewer intentions in that direction,  
maybe become a bit healthier as a result. 
Um, so we get intentions from our biology,  
the social environments we occupy. We also get 
intentions from all the lessons we've learned.  
And so maybe we interact with the world in 
a certain way and that teaches us a lesson  
for how we should behave. And then we learn to do 
things differently the next time to not, you know,  
pick up and eat apples off of the grocery store 
shelf as a child. I now know that as an adult. Um,  
but we get this conditioning from our 
biology, from lessons we've learned,  
from the conditioning in our past. But there's 
also the deeper sources of intentionality that  
we can have as well. like our self-reflective 
capacity. So, every intention has a different  
duration. So we can have a tiny intention to tie 
our shoelaces before we go for a run which could  
be a part of an even greater intention that 
takes place over a longer period of time to  
uh to run a marathon in a certain amount of time 
which could be a a part of a broader priority in  
our life to become healthier which could be a 
a part of a value that could be even broader  
than that like feeling secure. cure in our body. 
Personal security is a fundamental human value.  
So we have the source, we have the duration, but 
we also need the strength of an intention as well,  
which is a function of how much we desire doing 
the intention minus the aversion that we have to  
doing the intention. So sometimes our desire will 
far uh uh outnumber our aversion and so we'll be  
motivated. We'll be fired up to do it. But of 
course that changes over the timeline of goal  
attainment. And so we need to account for aversion 
in overcoming procrastination. And the final  
attribute of our intentions is their depth. Every 
intention that we have is connected to a different  
extent to the values that we hold most dear. So 
my two biggest values happen to be self-direction  
and pleasure. I love going my own way. I 
love sense pleasure, delicious meals, baths,  
you name it. And so anything that is aligned with 
that feels deep and motivating to me. You know,  
making the gym like a spa is very motivating 
to me. As is finding an enjoyable, sustainable  
way of eating, very enjoyable to me. But other 
intentions like, you know, increase cardiovascular  
fitness after surgery I had a few years ago. I'm 
okay, don't worry. Um, that that's that requires  
more motivational energy. there's more aversion 
embedded within that because it's tougher for  
me to align that with the deeper goals that I 
have though it is possible to edit them closer  
in that direction. So every single intention that 
you have will have a different depth as well. If  
somebody took just one idea from intentional it 
it's to really become more deliberate about the  
intentions you set across multiple layers of that 
intention stack. And so one of my favorite ways of  
doing this is called the rule of three. Where 
essentially we think at the start of the day,  
what three things will I want to have accomplished 
by the time the day is done. That's it. You only  
have to choose three. And if you love the rule 
every day, you might want to do it every week,  
too. So every week, every Sunday, perhaps 
you think, what are the three main things  
I'll want to have accomplished by the time 
the week is done? So then you can look to  
your daily intentions when you set them and 
you can look to your weekly ones and think,  
how are these going to flow into one another? 
How can what I bite off every day contribute to  
this broader change that I'm trying to make to my 
life? And when you set those weekly intentions,  
you can look to your goal inventory, all the goals 
that you want to achieve over a medium, a long  
time span, and you can see how they align with 
the goals. Every time you set the weekly ones,  
you can bite off a bit of that goal that you can 
bring down to earth on that daily level. And then  
when you have the review of the inventory, you 
can look to your values so you can shape them  
around the kind of person that you are and take 
advantage of that natural motivating force inside  
of you called your values. And so it's in this way 
that on a practical tactical basis each and every  
day our different levels of intentionality 
in our life can flow into one another.
Chapter two. Why values are essential to goal 
attainment. So often when we don't follow through  
with a goal, it's because the goal is misaligned 
with something called our values. And I know what  
you're thinking. Whenever I hear the term values 
myself, um, whenever I have heard it, my eyes  
have kind of glazed over a little bit because 
there's a lot of advice out there about values,  
how we should connect with our values, embrace our 
values that isn't rooted in science. Uh what comes  
to mind for me is these cheesy corporate exercises 
where you know somebody will come in and they'll  
give you a list of a hundred different values 
and you're supposed to circle the one that you  
find most in I I just want to circle the whole 
page. Yep. Everything on there I like. I love  
humor. I love grace. I love this. I love that. 
But the research shows there are 12 fundamental  
human values that we all share. Every single 
one of us has these but in different amounts  
and full credit where credit is due with these 
values to professor Shalam Schwarz who pioneered  
the theory of fundamental human values in 1992. So 
the thing to know about our values is our values  
are our motivational core. They are at the core 
of everything that we want to do and everything  
we don't want to do. On a very very basic level, 
we're either compelled to enrich other people or  
ourselves. That's the first kind of polarity that 
we have. And the second polarity that we have is  
we either want to conserve things as they are or 
we want to improve or change things as they are.  
So we have that basic polarity at the heart of 
us. We all point in a slightly different direction  
between those and that creates our values. So our 
12 values that we all share in different amounts,  
they blossom out of this fundamental orientation 
that we have. The first value is self-direction,  
which is going our own way. It's thinking our 
own thoughts. stimulation, which is novelty.  
It's excitement. Then we have pleasure. Could 
be everything from eating a delicious burrito  
to taking a relaxing bath. Achievement, right? 
Accomplishing things that you're proud of. Next up  
is power, which is having dominance over resources 
and also other people. And curiously, out of all  
the different values, this one is the lowest both 
cross-culturally as well as generally. And there  
is a certain need for it though too. You know, 
every congregation has a priest for an example.  
Every city has a mayor. So there is this intrinsic 
structural need for it. Face is the next value  
which is avoiding humiliation while preserving 
how you come across to other people. Next up  
is security and this includes both personal 
security but also societal security. Tradition,  
this is loving the norms and customs of the groups 
that were a member of conformity. That's abiding  
by the expectations that other people have of us. 
Humility. It is recognizing your own significance  
or some might say insignificance in the grand 
systems that were a part of. Universalism,  
which is protecting the welfare of people and 
of nature. And finally, benevolence, which is  
kindness. It's serving others. We all have some of 
these values in spades and others in very very low  
amounts. And knowing which ones are strongest 
for you uniquely is one of the most helpful,  
if not the most helpful thing that you can know 
in goal attainment. So when you look at this  
list of values, you'll probably find that some of 
them jump out to you. It's like, oh, that that is  
me. That describes me to a tea. I am benevolent 
through and through or I am self-directed through  
and through or pleasure is what I am after in 
my life whatever it might look like. And then  
you probably have others that are you know uh 
uh you know I I don't want that in my I don't  
need you know for me I I have that reaction to 
conformity and to power. I don't want to have  
power over any other person ever. Um I find it 
awkward. Um, so you can probably identify the  
top two that you have at this point. You know, for 
me again it's self-direction and pleasure. Maybe  
it's benevolence and tradition for you. Whatever 
it might look like, try to base your goals around  
those values. Edit your goals so they fit with 
them. There is that next level that you can take.  
There are a lot of scientifically validated values 
test because there simply is so much research  
around this theory of fundamental human values. 
I partnered with Professor Schwarz to create one  
um and distribute it uh to to readers of my book. 
You don't have to take that. You don't need to pay  
a dime for this stuff because you probably have 
a lot of intuitive responses uh within you uh in  
that self-reflective capacity that you have that 
tell you which ones are strongest for you. So our  
values shape the intentions we set without even 
realizing it. So if you find that when you have  
a bit of downtime for example you find yourself 
gravitating to doing certain things to you know  
serving others through through your value of 
benevolence to reading a book because of your  
value of self-direction whatever it might look 
like you'll find that your default intentions  
are already shaped by your values right they work 
hand in hand with one another but when it comes to  
setting deliberate intentions. You'll find that 
what you gravitate to will be in line with the  
things you value. You'll want to double down on 
the values that you already have. And in my view,  
there are no good or bad or right or wrong values. 
There definitely are certain values that are more  
conducive to certain goals and to certain 
situations. And so when a goal is something  
that we have are struggling to achieve, it can 
often be because it's misaligned to the values  
that we have. So if you value self-direction, 
which is going your own way, but a goal on your  
list feels like you're conforming to somebody 
else's expectation, you're probably going to  
rebel against that goal. You're not going to want 
to do it. there's going to be some part of you  
that feels deep inside of you that's like, "No, 
get this goal out of my face." And it's because  
we have this visceral reaction when something 
isn't aligned with the things that we value. So,  
let's say you have a goal on your list like write 
employee handbook for the next calendar year. Um,  
that might actually be a goal that feels like 
something you have to conform to. it it fits  
with that value of conformity. You're not going 
to want to do that goal. But let's say you value  
benevolence, kindness, right? You can reframe 
that goal around benevolence. So instead of  
write employee handbook, it could say mentor new 
employees and welcome new employees through the  
handbook update. So it's a simple reframe. It 
might be the same set of actions that you take  
to accomplish both goals, right? They might 
look the same from the outside looking in,  
but to you they're completely different because 
one is aligned to what you actually care about.  
The other just feels like something you have 
to do. And so really, when a goal sticks, it's  
because we found a part of it that we can deeply 
and fundamentally connect with. And when a goal  
hasn't stuck, when it's just kind of something 
that we've been struggling to achieve for a while,  
that can be a sign that we need to edit the goal 
so that it's more in line with who we are. Maybe  
we need to see it from a different direction. 
Maybe we need to experiment with it a little bit  
to to approach it from a different way instead 
of trying to will ourselves into some change.  
You know, lose that body fat, Christopher. it it 
can be more how do I enjoy this process more for  
myself? How do I make it more pleasurable? And 
how can I be kinder uh to myself in this process  
too? They all look like the same thing. That's 
just embracing who you are and what you value.
Chapter 3, how to follow through on goals. So 
if intentionality is the key to finishing what  
we start, goals are how we get there. A goal is 
a story of change that we're trying to make to  
our life. But what a goal is at its core is a 
prediction. A goal is a prediction of where we  
believe our current and our planned actions will 
take us. And I don't know if you've ever tried  
predicting the future before, but if you have, 
you've probably realized just how bad we are at  
predicting the future. We don't know what's around 
the corner in the world, or even in our own lives  
sometimes. Uh we overestimate how many resources 
we'll have for a goal, how much time we'll have  
for a goal, right? Think about all the New Year's 
resolutions that we set and then reality sinks in.  
So a goal is really a prediction which often turns 
into an expectation of what will end up happening  
in our life which turns into disappointment when 
it turns out that we can't predict the future  
which turns into yet another goal that we set. 
And so goals are really these stories of change  
that we're trying to create. But when we're not 
careful they can set us up to feel disappointment  
uh when we don't predict the future that we're 
planning for. We get so much wrong about goals.  
And I think a lot of the the huristics that we 
use to set goals are just these ideas that have  
circulated for a long time that we don't even 
know where they came from originally anymore.  
So smart goals come to mind for this where a smart 
goal there's a lot of advice out there about smart  
goals that we should set goals that are specific, 
measurable, attainable, realistic, and time bound.  
The words mean something different depending 
on who you ask actually. But the research shows  
that they don't work. They don't actually work. 
Specific goals often aren't more helpful when  
we're in the learning stage of a goal. And there's 
redundancy in this criteria as well. So aren't,  
you know, aren't measurable goals also realistic 
and kind of attainable, too? So there's redundancy  
in the criteria. There's criteria that doesn't 
actually matter. And the research shows that  
there's actually a a a big amount of quote 
unquote research waste that has been conducted  
around smart goals. What does work is becoming 
more intentional across every level of our life.  
from what we do today that allows us to act toward 
a goal that to what we plan this week that allows  
us to act toward a goal to the goal itself to 
whether that goal is connected with with what we  
value at our deep and fundamental level. So there 
are four steps to goal attainment. Shape a goal  
into something that you want to do. Then act on 
the goal. Then edit the goal. And then the final  
step is to maintain the goal. So when it comes 
to shaping a goal, we need to get two big things  
right. We need to get the outcome that we're after 
and the process that will get us to that outcome.  
So for example, learning a new song on the piano, 
right? The outcome for that is to learn the new  
song on the piano. That's the goal. But the 
process that it takes us to get there is very  
different than that outcome. It might be do this 
new song for 20 minutes every day this week. So we  
need both when it comes to a goal, the process 
and the outcome. And we need to set intentions  
across multiple levels of our life. We can't 
just set these broad goals. We need to think,  
okay, how am I going to work toward them this 
week and today and this moment? There's a great  
quote that I love from Annie Dillard that kind of 
relates to this where she wrote that how we spend  
our days is of course how we spend our lives and 
the exact same thing is true with regard to our  
goals. We need to think about the dayto-day 
with the goals that we set. You know so many  
of our goals are sepiaoned fantasies that sound 
incredible on the surface. One that really comes  
to mind for me is waking up early. Now, I love 
the idea of waking up early, of being this this  
incredible early riser to, you know, wake up at 5 
and read the paper and meditate and answer email,  
do all these things. But whenever I integrate 
this habit into my life, which I love the idea of,  
I realize just how much I absolutely hate this 
ritual. I have to go to bed when friends want to  
hang out. I I have to do all these things in the 
morning when I have no energy. I'm a night owl  
at heart. That's when I thrive personally. And it 
just goes to show that so often the idea of a goal  
is far more attractive than what the goal actually 
looks like in our life on a daily basis. And so  
mind if any of your goals are sepiaoned because 
how we spend our days is how we spend our lives.  
I remember when I was first starting with pro 
looking at process versus outcome goals and I was  
really really against the idea of setting outcome 
goals. I'm not that accomplishment driven in my  
life. You know, accomplishments um never really 
inspire me. I've never been inspired to do these  
big uh audacious things, but I've always loved 
the process of doing them. So, you know, writing a  
book, for example, I love the process of writing a 
book. I never think about what it might look like  
in in the world. Maybe for better or for worse. 
I'm not sure. I'll have to ask my publisher.  
But what what what I've realized though is outcome 
goals and process goals, if you're against them,  
they're both two sides of the same coin where 
we need that broader story of change, which is  
the outcome that we're trying to uh achieve in 
our life. But we also need the process that'll  
get us there. So there is a reflection that needs 
to happen um where if you make a list of goals,  
maybe under each of those goals have the outcome 
that you're trying to achieve and the process that  
will get you there. Because remember goals are 
just a prediction, right? They're a prediction  
of where you believe your current and your planned 
actions will take you. And sometimes your process  
goals will work, sometimes they won't. Sometimes 
something that you thought would work incredibly  
well um won't work at all. So, I remember when 
I was learning the piano, um, I downloaded all  
these apps because I'm kind of a tech nerd at at 
heart and I would download the apps and hook the  
a piano up into the iPad and, you know, it tell me 
which keys to to play and when. But, I found that  
kind that habit kind of fell by the wayside until 
I hired a piano teacher which added that layer of  
accountability into the goal. And so sometimes 
we need to try a lot of process goals out to  
find the one that actually sticks and allows us to 
make more progress to the outcomes that we have.  
Next up, act on the goal. So something that you'll 
find when you take a a chance to capture all the  
goals that you're in the middle of is some of 
them will attract you. Some you'll you'll feel  
just compelled to work on naturally. you'll be 
inspired, motivated to do them. And then you'll  
have others where you're looking at it and you 
just have this this aversion to it. This aversive  
reaction where a goal just feels ugly. You know, 
the the things that you have to do even though  
they might prove worthwhile at the end of the day 
are not enjoyable in the slightest, right? it. So  
sometimes the process of doing something will 
induce aversion and every goal has a different  
balance of desire and aversion. The interesting 
thing about desire and aversion is they fluctuate  
incredibly over the span of a goal. Like maybe 
you want to learn Spanish cuz you're going to  
Spain and right after you book the tickets, even 
though it's 6 months away, you're you're fired  
up to go on this trip. And so you're learning, 
you're practicing for an hour every day, but  
then a few weeks go by. And that desire that you 
originally had, it begins to taper off a little  
bit and maybe even gets to that point where that 
goal is aversive to you. But then fast forward a  
few months and the trip is coming up. It's right 
around the corner. And so you're inspired. Okay,  
I'm got to learn Spanish again. It's just a 
few weeks away. Let me get going. Let's go.  
And so goals fluctuate over their timeline. 
And the interesting thing about aversion is  
there are certain characteristics a task or a 
goal can have that make it feel ugly to us. And  
those are whether a task is boring, whether 
it's frustrating, whether it is unpleasant,  
whether it is unstructured, whether it's far away 
in the future. So the further away a goal is,  
the less we feel compelled to do it. And the 
final one is when something's meaningless, when  
something doesn't feel connected with who we are 
on that deep fundamental human level, which is our  
values. And so these characteristics of aversion, 
they tend to rear their ugly head when desire  
tapers off, especially at the start of a goal. 
We too often rely too much on desire to achieve  
our goals because desire fades, right? Excitement 
fades with a goal. And so we need to when we set a  
goal, we can't just look at that excitement at the 
beginning. It's not enough. We can't just rely on  
the willpower of wanting to achieve it. That won't 
be enough because the time will come when we don't  
have that willpower. when we don't have the energy 
to expend and when we just don't want to do it  
anymore because the conditions of our life aren't 
right. We need to accommodate for both desire,  
right? Increasing it where we can, surrounding 
ourselves with um uh people who are conducive to  
achieving a goal, right? If we have a running 
goal, joining a running club for an example,  
but taming aversion is critical, too. So if you 
find yourself procrastinating on a goal, that's a  
sign that it's aversive. Right? Those six triggers 
of aversion, they lead us to procrastination. I  
remember talking to one procrastination researcher 
in writing this book and something that he said to  
me put me totally at ease. He said, "Everybody 
procrastinates. Procrastination is human.  
Studies show that 15 to 20% of adults chronically 
procrastinate and about a third of students admit  
to procrastinating chronically as well. Another 
study surveyed a huge population of people  
and found that 99% of them openly admitted to 
procrastinating on their goals. And in my opinion,  
that 1% is lying through their teeth. This is 
a human visceral reaction to something that  
we just don't want to do that trigger uh the six 
attributes of aversion and there's nothing wrong  
with you if you do it. But one tactic that can 
help immediately if this is something that you  
fall into is to shrink your resistance to 
something. So let's say you're putting off  
a meditation practice. So you might think, do I 
want to meditate for 45 minutes today? No. Okay.  
What about 30? Mm-m. Okay. What about 20? No. 
Still no. What about 15? No. What about 10? Yeah,  
I could do 10. And so you do it for 10. And what 
you find with resistance to doing things is the  
resistance that we have is almost always stacked 
at the beginning of the task, right? It it takes  
a little bit of time to jump into the cold pool, 
but once we're in there, we warm up very quickly.  
And our work, our tasks are the exact same way. 
And procrastination on a psychological level is  
when our intentions fall apart, right? We kick our 
intention down the street, too. We'll just deal  
with it another day. But we can untangle this 
phenomenon of procrastination by using why we  
procrastinate in the first place, which is those 
triggers of aversion. So, if something's boring,  
for example, can you make a game out of it? Right? 
Have some fun with it? If something's frustrating,  
can you do it over a a fancy latte or or or a 
beverage of choice? If something is far away  
in the future, can you set milestone goals? Can 
you bring in an accountability partner so you  
have that immediate accountability right in the 
moment tomorrow perhaps not 6 months down the  
line when you're going to have to run the marathon 
or actually speak Spanish because you're in Spain.  
So accounting for these triggers is entirely 
possible to do. One of my favorite ways to deal  
with as many triggers as you possibly can at one 
time is what I think of as aversion journaling.  
And so here here's how it works. You give yourself 
a choice to either do the thing that you want to  
put off or journal about it. That's it. You get 
the choice between door A or door B. And so you're  
going to want to journal at the start of wanting 
to put something off. You're going to write about  
how ugly it is, why you don't want to do it, 
and really untangle a lot of knots with regard  
to a task. So setting a goal is not enough. We 
need to learn how to edit and improve and change  
them along that timeline of goal attainment. A 
big sign that you should be editing a goal is  
you're not doing it anymore. Right? So the easiest 
way to tell if something is a priority for you and  
motivating for you is you've done it already. And 
so if there's a goal on your list that you're not  
making progress on, it could probably benefit from 
an edit or a revision. Sometimes they're worth  
dropping entirely. And so this is the thing about 
a goal where a goal is really just a prediction in  
disguise. And so we need to revise our predictions 
as we get more data, right? So as we get feedback  
from trying out the different goals that are on 
our plate, we we can see what's working, what's  
not working, we can revise the process goals that 
are associated with a broader outcome that we're  
trying to achieve in our life. Often with the 
outcome goals that I have, like with losing body  
fat, like with working out more often, I've needed 
to try a lot of different process goals to find  
the one that ultimately worked out for me. Um, and 
you're probably going to be the same way. You're  
going to try out a lot of things and they're 
not going to work. Nothing's going to stick.  
You're going to be frustrated. But that's the 
process of learning what a goal is about. And so,  
at the start of a goal, you're going to be in that 
learning mode. And so, embrace the learning mode.  
Embrace the the the challenge of finding what will 
actually stick with making progress with the goal.  
And edit the goal continuously as you go forward. 
as you learn what will actually lead you to make  
more progress. So, one of my favorite ways for 
capturing all the goals on my plate is just to  
make a goal inventory. So, a goal inventory is 
just a list of every single goal that you're  
working towards. And it's remarkable how little we 
think about all the goals that we're in the middle  
of achieving, right? So, we'll be at home and 
we'll be reminded of the dozen goals that we have  
to do around the house. We'll get to work. We'll 
open up our email. you'll see reminders of all  
the different projects that we have on our plate. 
And what this does is it increases the cognitive  
overhead of having goals. And it makes us just it 
makes it so our environment is just chalk full of  
reminders of all the things we have yet to do, 
of all the goals that we have yet to achieve.  
And so this is why I love the goal inventory 
so much is it's a goal list that you review  
once a week every week. I review mine every single 
Sunday. And all it is is it lists out every single  
goal that you have across the different contexts 
of your life. So I have mine broken down by work  
is at the top because I have more workrelated 
goals and then home is at the bottom. And I review  
that once a week and every week I I think okay 
what do I want to bite off when it comes to these  
goals this week? What do I have time for? What do 
I have attention for? What do I have energy for  
with regard to these? And what can I actually slot 
in in the week ahead? If I have a fitness goal,  
can I schedule some workouts? If I have 
a goal to uh develop deeper friendships,  
can I arrange two coffee shop dates with friends 
this week? Whatever it might look like for you,  
it's a great way of bringing your goals down to 
that daily level. The final step is to maintain  
the goals that we have. So this can be a challenge 
and I I find this in my own life including with  
things like meditation. So sometimes a new habit 
like meditation or something. I've been meditating  
for years but I find that I go into phases in 
my life where meditation works so well that I  
stop doing it. And this is true for a lot of 
our goals. Sometimes they work so well that  
we stop doing them. We take them for granted. 
And so there's this critical maintenance phase  
when it comes to the goals that we have that we 
need to embrace more often. If a goal is really  
important for you and it isn't some project that's 
a once- off that you know it okay that's done the  
rena is finished on to the next thing. It's this 
thing that you want to actively maintain in your  
life like meditation. Set a maintenance goal 
and add it to your goal inventory so you can  
review it regularly. And you'll find over time 
that you'll keep up with it just automatically  
because that weekly reflection, it won't feel 
like, okay, I need to figure out what I'm going  
to bite off with every goal this week. It feels 
like a pat on the back because you've done such  
a good job of achieving the goal and now you're in 
that maintenance phase. Sometimes you do do need  
a little bit of a course correction when you 
do that goal review, but you'll probably find  
that when you've gotten to that point of goal 
attainment, when you're on to that maintenance  
phase of a goal, it'll feel more like a pat on the 
back than anything else. But also, and I have to  
be honest here, out of all the advice that I give, 
this is some of the toughest advice that I find to  
take myself. But something that I have basically 
forced myself to do after achieving a goal is to  
celebrate the fact that I achieved it. And it it 
could be something as simple as ordering dinner  
one evening or going going out for dinner. Food 
is my core competency, you know, at at heart. Um,  
it's not productivity. It's well, productivity 
plus food, let's say. But treat yourself in a  
way that feels like a celebration. Whatever it 
might look like for you, celebrate the fact that  
you achieved something incredible. Keep an 
accomplishments list. So, the definition is  
in the name there where an accomplishments list 
is a list of everything you accomplished. And you  
can do this across whatever timeline you like. 
So if if I'm dragging my feet one week and I'm  
uh struggling to muster the the motivation to do 
stuff, I'll just write an accomplishments list.  
What are all the results that my efforts are 
leading to at work, at home, what regardless of  
the context, but you can also have one overall 
for the year, right? what are the big things  
uh you're achieving that you have achieved that 
you didn't expect to achieve right so everybody  
knows that feeling of you know you achieve 
something during the day that you didn't plan  
on doing it was something unexpected and so you 
get to write it on your to-do list and then you  
get to cross it off you still get the satisfaction 
of having done it accomplishments list can be like  
that too where if you achieve something that you 
didn't expect to put it on the list you've earned
Chapter 4. Focus in the age of distraction. 
We're living in a really distracted time  
right now. And not only this, but the algorithms 
that try to distract us are driven by artificial  
intelligence now. They they learn a lot about us. 
And so that hooks us into even greater novelty.  
And it's really novelty that is the biggest source 
of distraction. Um in our brain we have this idea  
called the novelty bias. It's a a bias embedded 
within the the logical center of our mind, our  
prefrontal cortex. Uh whereby for every new and 
novel thing we direct our attention at, we get a  
hit of dopamine. Uh and so we go to Instagram, we 
get a hit of dopamine. We then we you know check  
the news, then we get another hit of dopamine. 
Then we go to something else. We go on Tik Tok,  
we get another hit of We check email, we get 
another hit of dopamine. Research that has been  
conducted by Gloria Mark, she's found that the 
median amount of time we focus on something for  
when we're in front of a computer is 40 seconds. 
That's it. That's 40 seconds. That's all we got.  
And when we have our phone nearby, this lowers 
down to 35 seconds. And so this is the rhythm of  
our attention. And you can see it from the moment 
you wake up, right? Your maybe your phone wakes  
you up. And so you're you're tapping, you're 
swiping around, and then 40 seconds after that,  
maybe you check email. 40 seconds after that, 
maybe you go over to Instagram. 40 seconds after  
that, oh, I should just check on this app over 
here. Whatever it might be. And where multitasking  
comes in is, well, we can't actually do it. What 
we see as doing more than one thing at one time is  
really just as rapidly switching between things 
which creates the illusion that we are doing  
more than one thing at one time. And why this 
matters is there is a phenomenon that research has  
identified has been called attention residue where 
whenever we go from doing one thing to doing the  
next thing, we're always remembering a little 
bit of what we were just doing. So, think about,  
you know, you're in a big meeting. There's maybe 
something big happened in it and you're trying  
to check your email after you you're going to 
be remembering the meeting in your head. You're  
going to remember the conflict. You're going to 
remember the the brainstorming. You're going to  
remember whatever it is that happened in there. 
And attention works the same way but on a on a  
very smaller more granular basis throughout the 
day where we're always remembering a little bit  
of what we were doing before. And this makes 
our attention less efficient. So if we had no  
attention residue, if we were always just cleanly 
going from task A to task B to task C to task A  
to B, that would be fine. Multitasking would work. 
But when attention residue is in play, that means  
we can't really actively uh be doing more than 
one conscious thing at one time. Now there is an  
exception to this though, which is with habits. So 
we can actually multitask with habits. We can walk  
while we chew bubble gum while we do something 
that requires our full attention like listening  
to an audio book or something. But when it when 
we need to bring conscious intent to something and  
intervene to move things forward, multitasking 
just kind of makes us way less efficient and  
things take way longer than they ought to. And 
so this is the battlefield that we have for our  
attention these days, right? And I I really firmly 
believe that the state of our attention is what  
determines the state of our lives. Um if our 
attention is overwhelmed in each moment, these  
moments will uh sum up to make us feel overwhelmed 
in general. Whereas if our attention is calm,  
if we're chill, if if we don't constantly bounce 
around in these dopamine fueled feedback loops,  
we can be with whatever it is that we're doing. 
We can be present with whomever it is that we're  
with. And this is everything with productivity, 
right? Productivity is being able to bring our  
full deliberate time, attention, and energy to 
something and creating the conditions for that.  
So our attention is incredibly in demand. It's 
constantly being hijacked because of these novel  
sources of stimulation. And so that's the playing 
field that we have with regard to our attention.  
And so we need to create the conditions to 
counterbalance that. We have these kind of  
two modes that we go between throughout the 
day. There's the autopilot mode where we're  
just doing things in response to whatever happens 
in front of us. We're running on what uh Buddhist  
monks often call habit energy. So our habits 
are uh propelling us forward to doing the next  
thing and then the next thing and then the next 
thing. And often autopilot mode is nice. You know,  
you had a long day and you're kind of tired. 
You're kind of wiped and so you just want to  
unwind and lay on the couch and not do much of 
anything and just recharge and watch a couple  
of episodes of something. I I I'm a productivity 
expert, but I'm also fundamentally lazy. And so I  
can sympathize with people who are also wanting to 
be lazy, right? In my opinion, that's why I'm into  
productivity is so I have more time to be lazy, 
right? So autopilot mode, it can be relaxing. It  
can be uh restful. But when we want to actually 
accomplish things, when we want to go a different  
way, when we want to uh move our our days and our 
life to to uh be in a in a certain direction that  
is different from where we are just otherwise. 
That is where intention comes into play. And it's  
very curious intention and attention have this 
interplay with one another, right? So it we set  
an intention to accomplish something then we need 
the attention to carry it through the finish line.  
A hyperfocus is you know it's a word that sounds 
intense but it's really when we bring our full  
deliberate attention to something. And so we all 
have those moments where what we're doing consumes  
our full attention. We're in an engrossing 
conversation. We're hunkered down on something  
that's really important. And this in the it's very 
similar to flow in a way where hyperfocus leads to  
flow where we're completely immersed and then then 
we reach that flow-like state where time seems to  
not not even exist at all. And so hyperfocus is 
this process that involves four distinct steps.  
First we choose our object of attention which 
is you know that reflection. What is the most  
productive thing that I could be doing now? What's 
the most meaningful thing I could be doing now?  
Then we eliminate distractions. So we think 
what can get in the way of my intention. Right?  
Productivity is all about intention. So we need 
to uh protect the intentions that we set. Fortify  
the intentions that we set to eliminate the 
distractions that might be coming at us while  
we engage with them. Step three is noticing when 
your mind wanders. And so it's almost meditative  
in a way. So when you meditate, you focus on your 
breath and then your mind will constantly wander  
to to to more engaging things, more interesting 
things, more novel things than the breath. And  
work can be meditative in that same way where we 
have the intention that we want to accomplish.  
We eliminated the external distractions, but then 
we still have the stuff in our head that's going  
to come at us. Oh, I need to follow up with this 
person. or oh, what if I did this instead later  
today? Write those down. Make a distractions list 
where you jot them down. Whatever it takes to get  
these things out of your head so you can work 
on what you're doing with confidence. And then  
finally, when your mind does wander, when you 
do veer off not only what you're focusing on,  
but also what your intention was in the first 
place, bring it back just gently. Right? We all  
veer off intention. And this is a a part of the 
process of being human. We get derailed. We get  
distracted. But bring your attention back to focus 
on what's important until it's done. A big part of  
uh bringing more attention to whatever it is 
that our intention is to accomplish is designing  
an environment both external to us and internal 
to us. Uh so a calm mind for example um that is  
conducive and supportive of the intentions that 
we set. And so for the external environment that  
we have what are the distractions that are likely 
going to come up as you're engaged with the thing  
that you're doing? So for example, is your phone 
going to go off every 40 seconds or something?  
Are people going to come up to you in the office 
and ask if you have a moment to chat? Things like  
that. So not every distraction that we face can 
be dealt with ahead of time but many of them can  
and we need to deal with those uh that we can and 
modifying our environment is a big part of that.  
You know one of the awkward things with working 
with a team is that we all have two types of work  
that we do. We have the focused work that we do 
and we have the collaborative work that we do. So  
the focused work that we do is you know an extreme 
example of this is a novelist in a woods right a  
novelist can go off into the wilderness and and 
write their book for weeks on end not talking to  
a single soul and they do work that is very very 
individualistic very uh non- collaborative but  
then you got this person you got this person 
over here who is hyper collaborative is what  
the research calls it. You know, think of a NASA 
engineer who is launching a new shuttle into into  
the heavens. Um, their work is going to be super 
collaborative. Think of the the the control room,  
right? Everybody's interrupting each other 
constantly. That is the process of doing work  
that's collaborative. But between those extremes, 
between the novelist in the woods and the NASA  
engineer, we're somewhere in between here. Some of 
us are more individual. Maybe you're a a computer  
programmer. Other people are more on the extreme 
collaborative side. Maybe you're a people manager  
or an administrative assistant, whatever it might 
look like. So realize where you are and where your  
team is between those two extremes, between the 
focused extreme and the collaborative extreme  
and calibrate accordingly. If you're more on the 
focused end, maybe having outward signals that  
you're more focused can be very helpful. If you're 
more on the collaborative end and collaboration  
is your default, maybe have that open door 
policy at the office for most of the time,  
but have that signal that when the door is closed 
or when you know a flag is up or something,  
then then you're focused. And so calibrate for 
how focused versus collaborative your role is  
and work within those boundaries to uh understand 
how to protect your focus but also protect your  
wandering time. So the more that intentionality 
matters, the more that strategy matters,  
the more deliberate you can become about the 
direction of your work, the more you need to  
wander. And I think especially as things advance 
with artificial intelligence where we're guiding  
not only ourselves, our own intentions, 
we're guiding the intentions of machines  
and agents. Now intention has never been more 
important. But also stepping back to have a  
strategy behind that intention has never been 
more important. And one of the best ways to do  
that is to wander. You think about intention more 
often. You plan for the future more often, too.  
The scatter focus is when we let our mind 
deliberately wander. And so I don't know  
if you can think back to when your best, most 
brilliant ideas have struck you. What were you  
doing when they did? Maybe you're taking a shower 
and then out of the mist your mind had a chance  
to uh connect a bunch of the uh constellations 
of ideas that were swirling around inside of it.  
Right? We're going on a walk and we connect ideas 
in that context too. It's when we let our mind  
wander and we create the conditions where our mind 
can wander when we're doing something habitual.  
Maybe it's going for a shower. Maybe it's going 
on a walk. That's what leads to the conditions  
that lead to more creativity. So when our mind 
wanders, we wander to three main places. The past,  
the present, and the future. So we think about 
the past around 12% of the time. And a lot of  
this time we're recalling ideas. We're uh we're 
we're thinking about memories from them. Sometimes  
we're recalling those cringe-worthy things that 
we said that, you know, is is uncomfortable,  
but that happens less than we might think. 28% 
of the time we're thinking about the present. So,  
this is when you're typing up an email and you 
can't figure out the perfect way to phrase it. And  
so, you walk across the apartment or your house 
to get a cup of coffee or something and on the way  
there it hits you. That's how you should answer 
the email. and you run back, you type it up,  
you you hit send, and you forget about the cup of 
coffee in the first place. But the beautiful thing  
about scatter focus is we wander to think about 
the future more than the past and the present  
combined. So 48% of the time that our mind is 
wandering, we're thinking about the future.  
So, this is when you're taking that shower, 
you're going for that walk, and on the way there,  
your your mind has a chance to connect a bunch of 
these ideas. And these numbers don't add up to 100  
is because the rest of the time our mind is it's 
dull, it's blank, or it's focusing on ideas that  
aren't rooted in time. But because we we actually 
get this chance to wander, we don't have to force  
ourselves to focus on anything, which lets lets us 
recharge. we have more energy for later on. So we  
get the recharging benefits, we get the planning 
benefits. So we actually become more intentional  
when we enter into scatter focus mode. So there 
is a key when it comes to the breaks that we take.  
And there are multiple ways that we can take a 
break with the work that we do. But the key is  
to do something that is effortless for yourself. 
Right? do do something that is habitual in other  
words. So something that doesn't require constant 
conscious intervention but something that it roots  
you down into doing something that is habitual 
so you can actually let your mind wander at the  
same time. So all day we're trying to regulate our 
attention. you know, focus on this, hunker down on  
this problem, deal with this situation, put out 
that fire, deal with that emergency. And all of  
this fills our mind with a lot of noise. All this 
is a lot of activity that can get in the way of  
thinking clearly and focusing clearly and actually 
recharging with what we're doing. So, the research  
shows that there are different types of mind 
wandering that we can do. We can wander around  
a problem, for example. So you you're dealing 
with an issue at work and so you go on a walk with  
a notepad and you you write down thoughts that 
occur to you around that idea. But one of the most  
productive ways that we can let our mind wander 
is habitual scatter focus where we do something  
habitual that we love. Whether that's going for a 
walk, going for a run, doing a a a workout, just  
you know doing a stretch, whatever it might look 
like. Those are all exercise examples I realize.  
But whatever it might look like maybe taking an 
extra long shower for example um and just letting  
your mind roam free something habitual that 
you love is the key to a restful break. So the  
interesting thing that happens in our mind when 
we're scattering our attention is we're processing  
and connecting all of the previous information 
we've consumed during that time. So when our mind  
is wandering we connect experiences with memories 
with knowledge with uh facts with news with uh  
books we've read with all all automatically in 
our mind we connect the the the various issues and  
problems and information and data and oh my all 
together um in our head and so it's so critical  
to become more deliberate about the information 
we consume in the first place. So the dots that  
you're pouring into your head, the information 
that you consume throughout the day, it really  
matters, right? What is the the quality of that 
information, you know? So I I try to pour more  
books into my head than I do random news articles, 
for example, because I find that when I reflect,  
I'll be thinking about ideas. I'll be thinking 
about deeper issues. I'll be making connections  
uh between that information too instead of being 
concerned. And this is not an argument for burying  
your head in the sand or anything like that. You 
know, there are ways to stay informed that are  
essentially a higher quality uh informationbased, 
but it's so critical uh look at the information  
that you consume. What's the quality of that 
information and what is that leading you to in  
terms of your thoughts and the ideas that you're 
generating? One of my favorite stats, and I know  
stats are not motivating in and of themselves, um, 
but one of my favorite stats that motivates me to  
scatter focus more is that we think about our 
future goals 14 times as often when our mind is  
wandering versus when we're focused on something. 
It's remarkable. So when we take that step back,  
we automatically choose where we're going to 
take that step forward. So we get the rest,  
we get the future planning, and we get the 
ideas that rise to the surface of our mind  
because we bounce from thinking about the past 
to thinking about a problem that we're going to  
face later on in the day in the future to a 
situation that we're facing in the present.  
We connect all three destinations and we unearth 
ideas we would never have arrived at otherwise.
Want to support the channel? Join the Big Think  
members community where you get 
access to videos early and free.