Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Let’s continue talking today
How to get out of a sense of meaninglessness and depression
In the previous video
We focus on a sense of depression
A state of total instability
I call it a philosophical depression.
General depression
Often caused by specific external events
or situation-induced
Such as unemployment, breakup, relationship breakdown, illness,
Huge work pressure
Or other blows
The person is depressed
There are often more specific events
Despite this low mood
It will also spread to other areas
But the starting point is relatively clear.
As long as the situation or event is improved
Depression can be greatly improved and relieved
The parties involved may not necessarily understand the meaning of all life.
A rational suspicion
But what we call this philosophical depression
It is not or is not primarily due to a worsening of life
Or got hit
On the contrary, to some extent
Precisely because the life of the person concerned has become better
That is, after getting rid of the old constraints and pressures
The parties feel
I can finally break away from my original value system.
This creates a huge psychological vacuum.
Raise doubts about the deep meaning of life
certainly
People in reality are always complicated
On a specific person
These two types of depression are not mutually exclusive.
Depression in many people
yes
It includes depression caused by specific negative events.
It also includes this kind of philosophical depression
But the latter depression has a core feature
It's not easy for him to pass
Solve a specific life problem
To relieve
and
This melancholy is accompanied by a great deal of introspection.
and highly developed rational thinking
Showing suspicion of everything in daily life
and critical
for example
I know a civil servant from a local government.
He was good at writing when he was young
He was once a famous writer in the unit.
But he also always felt that this kind of writing was very boring
He longs to be a free writer
Write whatever you want
Inspire readers with your own ideas
But when he really resigned
When I started to have a lot of free time to read and think
He found that he couldn't write anything.
He first realized
writing
It's not as easy as I originally imagined.
It's an extremely difficult thing.
He thought he just had to resign.
Creativity suppressed by the system
It will be released immediately
But he found
When he is free
He doesn't want to write anything.
He realized
In the original false writing
Too much pain suppressed
These emotions flooded him.
Let him bear
Original writing
Always within a fixed identity and framework
To play the role of a pen holder
Now that all these frameworks have been removed
He had to expose himself to his pure self
No one told him what was important.
What makes sense
He must come from within himself
To produce a sense of meaning
But when he tried to open his inner
What we discover are emotions that have not been integrated by consciousness.
These emotions
Just like the river water after the ice melts
It came out all at once
So all the old beliefs and dogmas
The inevitability is lost.
All that's left is pure nothingness
The person involved seems to be in a state of not wanting to do anything.
A stagnation
Even a state of regression
It's like an animal shedding its skin
During molting
He was at his most vulnerable, breaking free of his old shell
But there is no new shell to protect itself
This is actually a common phenomenon of philosophical depression.
The parties involved feel
I seem to be becoming more incompetent and confused.
For example, the lady we talked about in the last video
She through her own efforts
Get rid of the environment that restricts you
Came to a freer country
And have more free time to read and think
So she began to boldly doubt and deny
Everything that suppressed me before
For example, traditional marriage concepts
Trauma of the original family
Misleading and Deceptive in Chinese Education
Ideology and political propaganda, etc.
She had a strong desire to see the course of her own existence
These reflections are of course very profound.
However
But it also made her fall into loneliness, pain and anger.
When she put patriarchy,
After the deconstruction of nationalism and authoritarian culture
She felt even more distressed and divided.
She didn't know how to reconcile with this emotion.
In fact, her experience
It is very similar to
Hegel mentioned in "Phenomenology of Spirit"
Distress Consciousness
Or the consciousness of misfortune
Hegel believes
Distress consciousness is a necessary stage in spiritual development
Stoicism
A unity of skepticism
So where does this sense of distress come from?
We say
If a person's mind is developing normally
Then at a certain stage
He will be eager to know more truth
Will try to deconstruct and doubt
The ideas we are accustomed to
As his suspicions grew
He will have a sense of misfortune.
This misfortune
It is not an emotion about a specific event.
It is a feeling towards the world as a whole.
Phenomenology of Spirit says
This distressed self splits into two consciousnesses
Because of this contradiction in its nature
It is contained in a consciousness
So in one consciousness
There must always be another consciousness
So when each side thinks they have won,
When a quiet unity is achieved
So
It is immediately expelled from the unity
This means that
There is such a contradiction in the unfortunate consciousness
One is the other side, the ideal,
Transcendental Self-Awareness
The other is specific, individual,
Limited self-awareness
Both are indispensable
The reason why I feel unhappy
It's not just because I am limited,
Individuals living in contingency and imperfection
It is because
There is a transcendent self within me
This self is an infinite, pure thinker
When I criticize the ugliness and inferiority of reality
With the concept of equality and freedom
When I examine the inequality and lack of freedom in my reality
I am standing at a transcendental perspective.
If I were completely immersed in the perspective of reality
Then I'll just shut up.
Compromise with reality
I would use "existence is reasonable"
"Being content is the greatest happiness" is used to persuade oneself to let go.
However
It is because I have an ideal standard in my heart
I know that according to the concept and logic
This is how it should be
But not at this time
I feel pain and misery
We often see
Many people live in pain
But they are numb.
They say life is hard.
But this does not mean that there is a sense of misfortune.
They might think
Just make a little more money.
As long as the baby is born, it will be fine.
This explains
The pain of reality
This does not necessarily lead to a sense of misfortune.
The key is to have a transcendental vision
However, at this stage
This transcendental self
Just a subjective thought
The more rational, complete and profound the individual's philosophy is, the more
The more it highlights the real life of individuals
and past history
Full of chance
So subjective and objective
This side and the other side can never reconcile
The parties live in a state of confusion between reality and themselves
In the hatred of finiteness
Including the blind obedience and ignorance of my past self,
Moments of pettiness, weakness or animality
etc.
These histories seem to be undeniable by the parties involved
So they are regarded as enemies.
and
We have to think hard to fight these enemies.
The result was that the person involved became even angrier
This is what Hegel said:
"Since this enemy
It was created when he was knocked down.
And since this enemy is established by consciousness itself
and fixed
Therefore, consciousness cannot drive away the enemy.
Instead, I always get entangled with the enemy.
And saw himself continually defiled by his enemies."
This is a profound split.
The sharper and deeper the individual's thinking,
In real life
Instead, they fell further into incompetence and contraction.
And this feeling of division
It is usually difficult for people around you to understand.
Those who have not experienced this path of doubt
Or consider it unreasonable
Or just feel
The person involved is simply depressed and sick.
I can't understand the depth of this depression.
It is worth mentioning that
Distress Consciousness
Not only an important stage in Hegel's philosophy
Hegel himself
A true experience in youth
In 1797, the 27-year-old Hegel moved to Frankfurt.
There, Hegel felt more and more
Contradictions and oppositions are everywhere
So he experienced the biggest mental crisis of his life.
He fell into a state of hypochondria and self-destruction
Later he recalled that period of his life:
“This state of hypochondria
I suffered for several years
Almost mentally paralyzed...
Everyone in his life
We all have to go through such a turning point
This is a dark contraction point in his nature
He's going to pass this.
To reach a safe situation
Thus convincing himself...”
So how does one get through this?
We say
The key to getting out of this split
Neither is it giving up thinking
Nor is it merely criticizing reality from the perspective of what should be.
otherwise
The objective world is still alien to humans.
Individuals will still feel unhappy
The key to reconciliation is
Individuals need to be aware
Those transcendental ideas are not merely subjective
And it is already contained in objective reality
And it is the result of the natural development of objective reality
For example, a lady
May narrate their life in a passive way
She felt herself
Been deceived by various wrong ideologies
Entered the wrong marriage, a bad workplace environment
And now she
Finally I realized all this clearly.
She used these events as the main axis of her life
These are of course objective and true
But it’s not the whole truth
because
If I were just a passive recipient
Is the torrent of life
And driven by the contingency of fate
So why am I
Haven’t you been assimilated by those wrong ideologies?
What events prevented me from being assimilated?
And how can he still remain conscious until now?
We need to know
Everyone's life experience
There are thousands of fragments
Full of multiple stories
These stories are told through
After being narrated and spoken in a certain order
Entered people's consciousness
At this point they are no longer just passive messages
It provides a new framework for interpreting our experience.
It also determines how we view ourselves and others.
When we follow this line of thought to find
To expand our horizons
You can find some
Side events and plots that differ from the mainstream narrative
These events often contain
Our own unrecognized power,
Resources, resilience and courage
for example
We mentioned at the beginning of the video
The man who wanted to write
Although he was very much in favor of his work in his early years
I have no doubts about the system.
However, even at that time
He also procrastinates, resists, and forgets from time to time.
These things seemed to be
It is totally incomprehensible
It's also sick and terrible.
And it gradually destroyed his ability to work.
However, nowadays
But it led him down a path
A more authentic life path
Even though he
I haven't read any negative opinions about the system.
and Thought
For example, that lady
She is in a bad marriage and lonely
Did not give up on myself
Still trying to make various attempts
Find a way to leave China
Get away from it all
She may not have had a clear understanding of these at the time.
Even people around her think that her life is good.
But she just felt something was wrong
With an intuition and inner inspiration
She overcame a lot of resistance
Only later did she reflect on
How reasonable it is to leave that bad environment by yourself
However, this rational cognition lags behind intuition.
For example
A rather depressed high school student
I had good grades.
But I accidentally fell in love with a hobby
This caused his grades to get worse.
And everyone around him thought he was addicted
However, it made him
Opened a new social starting point and career path
This shows that even in the past
In those who are involuntarily, misled,
During the time when I was blinded and bound
In the individual's heart
There is still a transcendent self
It is constantly leading itself
It's just this transcendental self
Not necessarily through revelation,
Suggestive and intuitive approach
It may also be an unconscious resistance
Some seemingly self-destructive actions
Even some kind of morbid addiction
To present oneself
As Winnicott believed
When an individual suffers from certain physical or mental illnesses
Those symptoms may be my true self expressing itself
Because this is the first time in my life
For the first time, I felt that I was no longer overwhelmed by the environment.
But exist alone in a creative way
I will never be replaced or ignored by anyone again
To some extent
These symptoms
They all serve to preserve the individual's true self.
It is not subject to social and moral authority.
Completely unified
These symptoms
In the past, they were considered alien to each other and wrong.
Now the person involved has finally recognized
It is actually the transcendental self
When individuals discover that whether they are awake or not
All your experiences, intentions and actions
Universal and Transcendental Self
are present at the same time
People save themselves.
Behind those limited moments
There is always an infinite self
at this time
The parties finally stopped regarding external reality
Including the world, others, environment, and chance
Completely opposite to oneself
But understand that:
All of this is the unfolding form of self-consciousness.
So, people no longer escape from reality.
It's not just about resisting reality.
But finally realized
“Reality” is the process of “concept” unfolding in time
I am the bearer of that concept.
So the individual has an absolute confidence
That you will never really get lost.
Never really lose yourself
He was sure that it was nothing else.
It's him
He will gain a deep sense of integration between himself and the world.
Even if he encounters setbacks and failures
He will also feel
All of this has value in a higher dimensional world
So we will no longer fall into complete nothingness and doubt
He will feel that he does everything
All the feelings that arise in my heart have meaning
At this time, people return to the world again.
This is reflected in
He is more open and positive in his external behavior
He will begin to care about others and society again.
About this topic
There's a lot more to talk about
Let's discuss it slowly later.
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!