The recent bullying case in the Ministry of Labor shocked Taiwan
Many people began to discuss the issue of protecting labor rights
It just so happened that recently the results of experiments in various countries with three days off per week were released.
There have been successful cases in the UK, Iceland, Germany and Japan.
In recent years, many European countries such as Iceland
Taking the lead in reducing working hours
The latest experimental results are released
It was found that work efficiency and quality have not been reduced at all.
As early as 2015
Iceland has reversed the industrial society’s system of eight hours a day and two days off for more than a century.
Government takes the lead in promoting experiments on shortening working hours for civil servants
Weekly working hours reduced from 40 hours to 35-36 hours
It turns out
Can relieve employees’ mental stress
Improve work performance
The book I’m going to face today is “The Three-Day Weekly Revolution”
It is a teaching manual written by Andrew Barnes, the founder of Three Days Weekly.
He used his company in New Zealand to conduct experiments
Proving that three days off per week not only protects labor rights, but also increases productivity
Achieve a win-win situation for labor and management
The 40-hour working day we use today
In fact, it is the system of the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century
At that time, capitalists wanted to measure the productivity of employees
Use time as the standard
See how much you can produce per hour
You can calculate that if you work 40 hours
How many goods can the factory produce?
But today’s technological era of the 21st century
Many people work in front of computers in the office
Difficult to measure how much can be done per hour
Employers don’t know how to measure employee productivity
Only the standards of the 19th century industrial era can be used
Using hours worked to assess productivity
How long you sit in front of the office shows how diligent you are
But in 2018
The author read a study in The Economist
Point out that the work day is 8 hours
Really productive time is actually only 1.5-2.5 hours
The rest of the time is spent scrolling on Facebook, chatting with colleagues, and doing chores
Employees stay with the company just to meet the 40-hour work week expected by their employer
The author is an employer
Own a company of 240 people
I was shocked when I read this study
If we say that people only have 2.5 hours of productive time in a day,
Companies require employees to stay in the company for 8 hours
That's actually very inefficient
Two days off is a 19th century work concept
We are all living in the 21st century
Vacation time is still as short as that of people 200 years ago
Isn't that weird?
Obviously, science and technology have progressed rapidly in the past 200 years.
Productivity greatly improved
Why do we still work 40 hours a week?
So the author had an idea
Design an experiment with three days off per week
If you only have 2.5 hours of productive time per day
5 days a week
This equals 12.5 productive hours per week
What if we only work 4 days a week?
Just 40 minutes a day to increase productivity
You can maintain the performance for 5 days
Starting from March 2018
The author conducts an 8-week experiment using his own business
Give 240 employees three days off per week
Everyone only works 80% of the time
But it can complete 100% of the work
Get the same salary
and invite research from external academic experts
Because there must be definite experimental data to convince the board of directors
Study results show improvements in several important metrics
The first is job performance that employers are most concerned about
We might think working hours are shortened
But if the workload remains the same
The pressure will be greater
Work performance will decrease
This is not good for workers
But the experimental results found that there was not much change in performance.
Because the key to implementing a three-day closing week
It’s about identifying things that appear to be productive but are actually “redundant.”
Like a lengthy meeting that wastes time
Deal with unnecessary emails
These all seem to be doing something
But it actually didn’t create any value for the company.
Save all these things
Employees can focus more on their work
Will naturally be more efficient
For example, several companies in Taiwan that implemented a three-day weekend also came to the same result.
Source: PTV News Lab (2023) Three days off every week to sign and pass the threshold! Taiwan becomes the first country in Asia to have three days off per week?
We thought shorter working hours would reduce productivity
But the experimental results are just the opposite
When employees get an extra day off
Instead, he will find his own way to do the job well.
So if a company prioritizes productivity performance
Then working hours should be shortened.
The second experimental result is that employee stress is reduced
Improvement of employee happiness and mental health
Because the three-day weekend is essentially a measure to "give workers autonomy"
In order to adjust to 4 working days
Employers must discuss with employees how to adjust their work
Decide which redundancies should be eliminated and how to innovate
This makes employees feel more autonomous
Able to speak up in meetings
Instead of just being ordered by your boss to do things that are a waste of time
Many managers only discover after experimenting
Give employees more autonomy
Decide for yourself when and where to work
On the contrary, it will make work more efficient
The third indicator of improvement during the three days of weekly rest is
Employees feel their work-life balance has increased significantly
Many employees reported that
Three days a week brought them the biggest change
is to have more time to participate in family life
Repair interpersonal relationships
Like friendship, family affection, love
There are also a few people who think
I don’t know what to do with the extra time.
I'd rather come to work
At least I can see my colleagues
But this voice is not actually against three days off per week.
Rather, it reflects that the overwork culture of capitalism has penetrated deeply into our lives.
When the company suddenly allows you to miss a day at work
You don't know what to do
Because your life pace is planned according to your work
This just reflects the work-life imbalance
must be improved
The final finding of the three-day-a-week experiment was that
The team’s work attitude and willingness to stay have significantly increased
Talents will be more willing to stay in companies that implement three days off per week
Because if you change jobs and go to other companies
Even if the salary is high
But I have to work for 5 days and lack autonomy.
Then I might as well stay in a company that has three days off per week
For example, Basecamp, a software company in Chicago, implements a three-day off week.
The CEO of this company, Jason Fried, is often questioned by people in Silicon Valley.
"If Steve Jobs took Friday off, he wouldn't be able to build Apple."
He replied: I didn't want to build Apple, and I don't care what Steve Jobs did.
This makes the employees of this company have more than 5 years of experience
It also makes Basecamp a model for future enterprises.
Three days off every week will also increase brand awareness
Companies like the author stand out from other companies’ competition
In a company that experiments with three days off per week
63% of employers said that implementing a three-day week would help attract talent
For example, British company The Mix Global
One year after the implementation of three days off per week (2017-2018)
The number of days employees took time off from work decreased by 57%
Productivity will also increase
Number of customers doubled
After the success of the three-day weekend experiment in 2018
This idea of ​​having three days off every week swept 37 countries
Countries have followed up with experiments
The latest British experimental results in 2023 show
92% of participants hope to continue implementing three days off per week
I don’t want to go back and spend two days off during the week
Will you go back and spend the second day of the week off?
Could you ever go back to a five day week, no?
I wouldn't want
to, no.
It's something that I think more companies should take
on.
It can be said that once the three-day weekly rest is implemented,
Once you use it, you can't go back.
The experiment of three days off per week proved
The old way of staying in the office for 8 hours is outdated
Working hours are shortened and productivity can be increased
Not just an experiment with three days off per week
This is also true even for global statistics.
research findings
The relationship between productivity and working hours in OECD countries
Countries with higher working hours generally have lower productivity
Countries with low working hours, such as Norway and Denmark, have high productivity
Countries with high working hours, such as the UK and Italy, have lower productivity
So we must break the myth that high hours equal high productivity
Where did this myth come from?
The author thinks
This comes from a kind of busy culture (Hustle culture) promoted by capitalism
Equating productivity with high hours worked
Show yourself that you work long hours
Suggest that you are productive
It seems that the later people stay in the company, the more powerful they are.
Like many of today’s best-selling books and online videos
They are all teaching people how to improve themselves
But these self-improvement programs teach how to become more productive
Productivity is like the religion of capitalism
productive forces
productive forces
productive forces
productive forces
productive forces
productive forces
productive forces
productive forces
productive forces
Many people like to complain about working late
Use this to show off that you are actually very productive
Capitalists deliberately promote the myth that longer working hours lead to higher productivity.
For example, Jack Ma said that 996 high working hours is a huge blessing
996 means working from 9 am to 9 pm six days a week
996 overtime system sparks debate on Chinese Internet
Many corporate bosses have justified their excuses with flexible working hours.
Jack Ma even bluntly stated that
Being able to work overtime every day is a great blessing
Do you know what salary is?
Salary in my understanding
I bought your time with my salary
Elon Musk also preaches that high working hours can change the world
My workload went up from about i don't konw 70 to 80 a week to probably
120.
I
go to sleep, I wake up, I work. Do that seven day a week.
These myths have now been overturned by experimental data
reflects the thinking of these employers
Still stuck in the sweatshops of the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century
The author himself was once a director of a top UK investment bank
Go to work at 7:30 in the morning
Didn't get home until 10pm
Eventually his marriage disintegrated
relationship breakdown
Won a high salary but lost his life
Only then did I realize
The burnout culture in today’s companies is poisoning each of us
And not just individuals
Even companies and countries will be affected
UK in 2017-2018
Mental health problems due to high work hours, overwork, anxiety, stress
This cost businesses 15.4 million working days
All these labor costs are wasted
We think that high working hours can lead to high productivity
In fact, just the opposite
Many times it makes workers sick.
Instead, I can't work
The study estimated
Sick workers cost employers £33-43bn in lost revenue
Moreover, the country also has to pay National Health Insurance to take care of these sick workers.
Increased the national financial burden by 10.8 billion
So the consequences of high working hours
In fact, labor, capital, and the state finance all lose.
According to the World Health Organization report
If the state and capital continue to ignore
Not changing the toxic culture of high hours
By 2030
Mental illness may be the main cause of disability and absenteeism in the workplace
In the end, everyone was unable to work
All I can do is lie down at home
etc.
This touch
Could it be...
Well-known European brand German Emma mattress!
Nearly 10 million products are sold worldwide
German Emma mattress endorsed by Ella
100-day free trial, free installation at home
I moved to the Netherlands to study as a postdoc
Emma from Germany generously sponsored me a complete mattress set
After trying to sleep for a few months
My sleep quality has really improved significantly
Wake up every morning feeling brand new
This Hybrid mattress has a five-layer hybrid design of memory foam
Ergonomic design
I am very accustomed to sleeping on my side.
I used to have back pain when I slept
But since I changed to Emma mattress, I can also relax and fall asleep when lying on my side.
Maintain a super crooked posture
Plus it has an anti-disturbance design
if you sleep with someone else
You don’t have to worry about being disturbed when others turn over
German Emma’s exclusive black diamond memory pillow
There are three layers of memory foam design inside
The pillowcase can be taken apart for cleaning
If you want to experience Emma mattress for yourself
You can also try lying down at the Taipei Junle Experience Store
The official website now has a Black Friday event with a minimum of 50% off
Enter discount code when purchasing: supery11
10% off on all fan-exclusive items, no limit on amount or item
It can also be used in conjunction with discounts on the official website
When you have three days off per week, you can also lie down at home
Emma mattress allows you to sleep with German quality in Taiwan
Finished introducing the experiment of three days off per week
Now the author wants to explain further
What should you do if your company wants to have three days off per week?
First of all, the first core principle is called the "100-80-100" model
That is 100% salary, 80% working hours, 100% productivity
Employees are entitled to three days off as long as they meet productivity goals
Not having to come to work anymore is a reward
What should be noted here is that
Three days off per week is not just multiple days off
But flexibility
Supervisors should tailor flexible hours to each employee based on their productivity
Think of this as an opportunity to get to know each employee deeply
Let every employee participate freely instead of imposing top-down rules.
For example, some employees are parents
In order to facilitate the pick-up and drop-off of children, I would rather take 2 days off per week
Then let them work for 5 days but only 6 hours a day
You can get off work at three or four o'clock and pick up your children.
Now that we have three days off in a week, it is not a three-day weekend.
Instead, work shifts so everyone can have time off.
While maintaining business operations, not everyone takes three days off on the weekend.
Then no one will run the company.
For example, the author mentioned a failure case
One company considers Friday to be the least productive day
Because everyone is looking forward to a holiday
So let everyone have a holiday on Friday
As a result, the experiment failed
This is incorrect approach
Because it is not formulated based on the productivity status of each employee
Three days off per week should be a bottom-up process
Supervisors should let employees schedule their most productive times
In the actual execution process
There are several common reactions employees may have
There is a type of employee who is a doubter
I think there must be some fraud involved.
How could such a good thing happen to the company?
Some people prefer to maintain the status quo
Not used to changes
The author believes that it’s okay to meet such employees
If they want to work for 5 days
Then let them go
Because you are free to participate on the three days off every week
Another type of person is the denier
They will say: Those experimental success stories are from others and will not work here.
Like every time I talk about successful cases abroad,
Many Taiwanese people will badmouth themselves and say
The national conditions are different, so things are different in Taiwan.
But the author believes that three days off per week will be the future trend
So the question is not whether to experiment or not
But since sooner or later we have to experiment
So why don't you try it now?
Why not explore the possibility of a win-win situation for both labor and management?
let's not forget
Our current working hours are 40 hours
In fact, it was also won through the labor movement in the past.
During the industrial revolution in the 19th century
Original working hours exceed 40 hours
Because workers in European and American countries can't stand high-skilled workers, they take to the streets to protest.
Why 19th-century labor could fight for more leave
In the 21st century, we are unwilling to fight for shorter working hours?
Moreover, contemporary society has AI and automation
In fact, it is easier to shorten working hours
In actual implementation
The author provides several tips for everyone
One tip is to create a do-not-disturb work environment
A British statistical research survey
54% of the respondents said
I actually look forward to distractions when I go to work, so that I can endure the boring work.
This makes work unproductive
psychologists think
To enter a highly focused working state
The brain needs at least 10 minutes of standby time
So every time I get disturbed
Like chatting with colleagues or being interrupted by emails
Will interrupt work
The brain needs to be cleared again
Take another 10 minutes to get into a focused state
Research from the London Institute of Psychiatry states
When work is interrupted
Distracted people have a 10-point lower IQ at work
Smoking marijuana can lower your IQ by 5 points
So work was interrupted
It's like smoking twice as much marijuana
That's not right
Isn’t it five times this year?
....
When the author was conducting experiments in his own company
To create a productive environment
Made a mini flag
When an employee needs to enter a state of intense concentration
will put a do not disturb flag on the table
Or someone will put a warning sign on themselves
"Please don't talk to me because I have no self-control."
Another tip is to pay attention to the ratio of work to rest.
Draugiem Group conducts a focus study
Use an app to track the work habits of your most productive employees
turn out
The top 10% of most productive employees
Their working hours are actually relatively short
And there is a certain proportion of rest time
Average working time is 52 minutes
will rest for 17 minutes
And don’t touch the computer during break time
Go for a walk
So the golden ratio to maintain high productivity is 52:17
In addition to improving productivity and regaining work-life balance,
Three days off per week also has various important positive effects
can tackle today’s climate crisis
Gender inequality in the workplace
There is also the problem of an aging society
What if three days off per week became the mainstream work pattern?
5-day shift reduced by one day
This means the number of commuter vehicles on the road can be reduced by 20%
Studies from various countries have pointed out that this can slow down traffic jams and reduce carbon emissions.
For example, the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research calculated
If Auckland's commuters had optimal road use
Reducing traffic congestion can actually increase productivity
Increased output value is $3.5 million per day
The first place in greenhouse gas emissions in the United States is transportation (29%), and the second place is power generation (28%).
130 million Americans commute to work every day
The carbon emissions generated by these commutes are staggering
If a three-day weekend is implemented
If you don’t have to go out for a day, you will reduce your carbon emissions by 20%
So in 2018, the University of California published an article saying
Not going out to work
is the greenest thing you can do
Let’s look at it from a gender perspective
Three days off could also help reduce gender inequality in the workplace
Because working five days a week is actually more harmful to housewives
Society expects women to take care of children
More disadvantages in the workplace
It’s even harder to balance family and career
American sociologist Christin Munsch found that
When men ask for flexible hours
When you want to achieve work-life balance
Chances of admission are generally higher than for women
Why?
When a man asks his employer for flexible working hours due to childcare reasons
will be regarded as a good man who loves his family
It does not conflict with the ideal image of highly productive workers.
But when women ask for flexible working hours due to childcare reasons
The company will feel that this will affect work productivity
Just imagine a situation
A mother who has to pick up her child from school at 3pm every day
Have been highly productive in the company for 3 hours
with a male employee
The productivity limit is also 3 hours
But I stay in the company until late every day
do something useless
in the eyes of the employer
will feel that male workers are more productive than mothers
This may explain why in the modern workplace
Women are more likely to be hindered in promotions
There is also the wage gap between men and women for equal work
The three days off per week is to break the illusion of "high working hours = productivity"
You don't need to stay late at work
High productivity can also be maintained
This way people don’t have to worry about sacrificing their career to take care of childcare.
Both men and women can have an extra day to take care of their children
Instead of leaving all childcare and housework to women
Make women disadvantaged in the workplace
The same logic also applies to retired people
Because the population is aging
From 2025, more than 20% of Taiwan's population will be elderly
Towards a super-aged society
In the future, the government must spend a large amount of budget on pensions and elderly care.
Many people are beginning to worry that workers will be deducted more taxes in the future
to take care of those old people
This year the Legislative Yuan even passed an amendment to the Labor Standards Law
Relaxation of mandatory retirement requirements at age 65
Let the elderly continue to work
However, if a three-day weekend is implemented
Taiwan’s working population of 12 million
You can have one more day to take care of the retired elderly at home.
In fact, it can indirectly reduce the country’s financial burden in caring for the elderly.
So three days off per week not only allows companies to increase productivity
Let workers find work-life balance
Even to combat the global climate crisis
Gender inequality in the workplace
There is also the issue of population aging
In 2019, the author visited New Zealand MPs
Discuss the reform of three days off per week
The MP asked him: Can three days off per week apply to all industries?
What about dairy farming?
Dairy cows are milked twice a day
The author thinks
Automation technology is changing rapidly
Already giving ranch workers more free time
Obstacles to the current implementation of three days off per week
In fact, the laws of various countries stipulate that standard working hours are two days off per week.
Measure hours, not productivity
This is actually a very outdated concept
In order to implement a three-day weekend without violating laws and regulations
The author's approach is to ask employees to sign a contract to voluntarily choose to participate
Companies in the 21st century are still using 20th century working hour regulations, which is already outdated.
We should get creative with regulations
For example, the UK will pass legislation in 2024 this year
Allow employees to request flexible working hours
And the employer cannot refuse
Otherwise, the employer will bear the burden of proof
In the past, employees had to prove that they could complete the work within 4 days.
But after the new law comes into effect,
The employer must prove
The employee cannot complete the work within 4 days
In addition to changes in regulations and systems
What can individuals do?
The author thinks
Everyone’s consumption habits are value choices
We can use consumption to take action
Support businesses that implement a three-day rest week
Boycott companies that still make employees work 5 days a day
For example, many fast fashion industry factories in Leicester, UK, do not comply with labor standards laws.
Hourly wage is lower than basic wage
When they were asked why they were paid so low
And put the responsibility on consumers.
Because consumers love to buy bargains
Fast fashion must compete on price to win
The British authorities turned a blind eye to this kind of exploitation.
The public is very forgetful anyway.
Even if a scandal occurs, it is quickly forgotten
Consumers cannot tell which products come from conscientious manufacturers
Therefore, the author provides a quick way to identify
If a product is too good to be true or too cheap
You will know that this is probably a cheap product produced by exploiting labor.
What seems like a super low price is actually someone helping you pay the price.
If governments in the future legislate three days off per week
Enterprise productivity increases instead of decreasing
Workers can take an extra day off under legal protection
You can be liberated from the state of salary and hard work
use the extra time
to repair your relationships
Cultivate your own interests
Reduce commuting
Care about the surrounding ecological environment
Find the balance between life and work
Three days off per week is bound to become an international trend in the future
Taiwan must demonstrate the progressive value of attaching importance to labor rights
We should promote more experiments and policies on this trend
Establish a win-win situation for labor and management
Let Taiwan become the first country in Asia to implement a three-day weekend