You're all surely familiar with the age-old debate:
Are people inherently good or evil?
There is still no widely accepted answer.
But the book we are about to discuss, "Humankind", 
uses a wealth of historical, anthropological, and psychological evidence
to overturn your view of human nature.
The author of the book, Rutger Bregman, is a Dutch historian.
In his book, he tells us that
the debate between good and evil is actually fundamentally wrong,
because the kind of humanity that develops
depends on what we believe about human nature.
All the debates about human nature, ancient and modern, at home and abroad, can be divided into two schools of thought.
One school believes that human nature is inherently evil.
British philosopher Hobbes is the archetypical member of this school.
He believed that before civilization existed,
primitive people had limited resources
so they inevitably became enemies with each other to capture resources.
To avoid war, everyone agreed to form a government to maintain order.
This is the origin of civilization.
It's based on the belief that people are selfish and need to be controlled or ruled.
Otherwise, society will fall into anarchy.
If you believe that human nature is evil
you think society needs  more regulation,
and the more politicians, CEOs, and discipline through education we have, the better people will be.
French philosopher Rousseau represents the humanity-is-good school of thought.
Rousseau believed that it was the emergence of civilization that made people selfish.
Those who wanted to occupy land found a few ignorant people
and told them, "This land is mine now,"
while designing various legal provisions to protect their property.
Once-public natural resources became the property of a minority.
This inequality was then rationalized through acquired education.
This is the origin of civilization.
If you believe humans are good by nature,
you think less control in society is more appropriate. 
fewer politicians, capitalists and laws, and less schooling.
So which theory is correct?
In 1966,
an accident turned out to be the perfect test of human nature: the Tongan Castaways.
Six Australian students sailed their own boat to the Tonga Islands.
Unfortunately, there was a shipwreck and they drifted to Ata Island in the Pacific Ocean.
The six boys were forced to try to survive while trapped on a deserted island. 
Not until a year later were they discovered by a passing captain.
Unexpectedly, they had established a small community on the island.
There was a sports room, a badminton court, a vegetable garden, and a fire area.
Everyone's physical health was very good.
Sometimes there were disputes, but when they calmed down, they would reconcile their differences.
There was no struggle for resources, only friendship and helping each other.
Today these little boys are in their 80s and still fast friends.
In 2007, the reality show Kid Nation was filmed in the United States.
Forty kids were left to fend for themselves in an uninhabited New Mexican town
to see if the selfish aspect of human nature would emerge.
It turns out, the children played together and got along well.
Nothing happened.
The show's crew had to play tricks behind the scenes to make the kids quarrel.
These experiments seem to prove that human nature is inherently good.
But there is a flaw here:
Maybe it's just that those kids just happened to be nice.
A few cases do not prove that this is the case for all.
So we have to look at another kind of evidence:
How did our human ancestors live before civilization appeared?
Fifty thousand years ago, there were other human beings on the earth besides Homo sapiens.
The famous Neanderthals had bigger brains and muscles than Homo sapiens,
so it stands to reason that they should have a greater survival advantage,
but the Neanderthals died out, leaving sapiens as the only humans on Earth.
This has led some scholars to speculate that
our ancestors may have waged genocide against the Neanderthals,
relying on their brutal nature to become the species that conquered the Earth.
But biologists have found that,
although we often say "survival of the fittest" applies to wild animals,
domesticated animals actually display another evolutionary mechanism.
Soviet scientist Dmitry Belyayev conducted an experiment to domesticate silver foxes in the 1960s.
He manually selected wild silver foxes that were "the most friendly and gentle toward humans"
and then bred these foxes.
He then selected the friendliest of this second generation of silver foxes and bred them again.
He repeated this until he had a fourth generation.
Unexpectedly, these silver foxes started wagging their tails when they saw people
and barking like a dog for attention.
These are behaviors that wild silver foxes can't possibly exhibit.
The silver fox had turned into a gentle, cute puppy.
This led scientists to draw a conclusion:
Domesticated animals demonstrate "survival of the friendliest".
The friendlier species are the ones that evolve to stay as they are in their infancy.
This is why dogs domesticated by humans look like wild wolves when they are young.
Over the past 200,000 years
the human skull has had a tendency to become more and more immature looking.
This has led scientists to draw a surprising conclusion:
Humans are actually "domesticated" apes.
The friendliest of our ancestors survived, and we are their descendants.
So after hundreds of thousands of years of evolution, the human face has become softer and more adorable.
Humans who have survived to this day are born with friendlier genes.
Clear evidence of this is the fact that,
of all the animals, only humans blush,
because humans have evolved a sense of shame.
Shame enables self-discipline in groups.
Apart from biological evidence,
anthropologist Richard Lee also found that
our human ancestors hated inequality and arrogant, selfish people.
For example, among the !Kung people in the Kalahari Desert,
if someone is too arrogant or selfish to share hunted food,
the people in the tribe will collectively ignore or bully him.
If any member does not fit well and wants to use violence to seize power,
everyone in the tribe forms a circle and shoots poison arrows at him,
making him die looking like a porcupine.
Over the years,
genes of kindness survive in the group, and genes of selfishness are eliminated.
Our human ancestors lived in this type of society for hundreds of thousands of years.
During World War II, 
the U.S. Navy showed Hollywood movies to the indigenous people on the Pacific island of Ifalik.
As a result, the locals were frightened by the murder scene in the movie and fell ill for several days.
When anthropologists went to this island to do field work after World War II
the locals were still asking: Do people in the United States really kill people?
It seems that our human ancestors were really kind and equal.
Rousseau's theory of the inherent goodness of human nature seems to be right.
But if this is true of human nature, why are there rulers in power?
Archaeologists think
this is because, after the end of the ice age 15,000 years ago, the climate warmed and
land suitable for farming appeared in Mesopotamia.
Our ancestors then tried to switch from a nomadic to a sedentary lifestyle.
Once settled, they could accumulate more wealth.
This is where conflicts over property arise.
Those who desired power recruited armies and waged wars.
Therefore, the first military construction site in human history appeared in a settled area.
But preserving property is not enough.
Rulers must also pass on property,
so there must be royal descendants.
Women thus became tools for childbirth
and gender inequality began to emerge.
After settling, people began to live among livestock and excrement.
Cities were like petri dishes for viruses
so epidemics and infectious diseases began to appear,
but our human ancestors didn't know how to explain these disasters.
They began to believe that mankind must have done something to offend the gods
so the gods were punishing them.
Thus, the religion of karma began to emerge.
After people died of plagues, rulers needed to replenish the population.
So, they went to the periphery of their territory to find people who were still living a nomadic life
and took them back as slaves.
This is why the earliest countries, Babylon and ancient Egypt, had slavery.
The earliest inventions of human civilization were actually tools used by rulers to oppress people.
In order to collect taxes more efficiently, money was invented.
Cuneiform was invented to record the list of debts to be paid by slaves.
The Code of Hammurabi was promulgated to regulate how to punish escaped slaves.
So Hobbes thought that human ancestors established a state order in order to survive,
but the opposite is true.
Human ancestors wanted to escape the enslavement of the state in order to survive.
Civilization is like a curse,
incompatible with the human desire for common good and equality.
Still, the author is not asking everyone to go back to the life of primitive people to be in line with human nature.
He is simply reminding everyone
that the "civilized" life we ​​enjoy is only a matter of the past 200 years.
Medical advancements, the eradication of infectious diseases, the reduction of poverty, the abolition of slavery:
these were not enjoyed by people just 200 years ago.
So instead of abandoning civilization altogether, it's about breaking the curse of civilization
and making our society more in line with our "survival of the kindest" nature.
If people are really kind by nature,
how can we explain the dictatorships and massacres throughout history?
Where does "evil" come from?
After World War II,
many people began to investigate why civilized Germans became barbaric Nazis.
Psychologist Stanley Milgram performed the famous electric shock experiment.
There was an actor secretly working for the investigators in a small room who answered questions.
If this person answered incorrectly, the experiment's subject was to press a button that would allegedly deliver an electric shock to this person.
Every time someone answered incorrectly, the researchers asked the subject to increase the voltage penalty.
It turned out that no matter how loud the actor screamed,
65% of subjects blindly followed authority and pressed the shocker.
Ow! I can't stand the pain, let me outta here!
He can't stand it, I'm not gonna kill that man in there.
I mean who's gonna take the responsibility if anything happens to that gentleman?
I'm responsible for anything that happens here.
Continue, please.
This led Milgren to a conclusion:
Most people will obey authoritative orders. Even if they kill people, they won't care.
Everyone is like a Nazi on the inside.
This classic experiment was written into all psychology textbooks,
as if it were evidence for the evil of human nature.
But later psychologists found that in fact,
in this experiment, only half of the people believed that the shocker would actually shock people.
Because how could scientists allow experiments that really hurt people to happen?
And the reason why many people pressed the shock
was because they thought this research would contribute to medical knowledge.
So it was actually kindness that made them press the shock, not maliciousness, as was thought.
Similar psychological mechanisms also appeared in World War II.
The Allies thought that the fighting power of the Nazis stemmed from anti-Semitic ideology
but after interviewing Nazi prisoners of war, discovered that
it wasn't because of anti-Semitism that they fought,
but rather because they didn't want their compatriots to die. They went to war for their brothers.
It wasn't anti-Semitism that inspired the Nazis to take up arms, it was friendship.
Bystanders may see people as doing evil, while the people involved think they are doing good.
In a similar way,
it wasn't because of patriotism that the U.S. soldiers entered World War II
but rather for their brothers in the army.
In order to stay with their brothers, they refused promotions to other units.
In order not to disappoint their brothers, even when injured, they rushed back to the front line.
So both sides of the war in World War II actually showed the same humanity:
loyalty, friendship, and self-sacrifice.
But this kind of "kindness" only applies to one's own people, not to outsiders.
So Hobbes was half right about human nature being evil:
People are kind amongst themselves, but cold-blooded to outsiders.
This manifests itself when babies are as young as six months.
Psychologists showed babies a puppet show
and found that all babies prefer nice people over mean ones.
This means they already have a sense of right and wrong.
But if babies find that mean people like the same food as them,
the babies choose mean people over good people.
This means that people are inherently xenophobic and only like things they are familiar with.
It is a kind of innate "evil" hidden in human nature.
But there is also a more critical acquired "evil" that can turn good people into bad people:
power.
Psychological experiments have shown that
when subjects are driving, the driver of a dilapidated car yields to pedestrians,
but for high-end luxury cars, 45% of subjects break the law, not yielding to pedestrians.
The more expensive the car, the worse the driving attitude.
Why is this so?
Psychologists scanned the brain and found that
people with a greater sense of power have less mirroring in their brains.
The human brain usually mirrors others.
When others laugh, you laugh along.
When others yawn, you yawn too.
But powerful people have less mirroring in their brains.
It's as if they've lost touch with their own kind
because these people think they are superior to others and look down on others.
This leads to the "acquired sociopathic personality" of people with high positions of power:
self-centered, shameless, indifferent, and unsympathetic.
These antisocial behaviors are usually seen only in people with brain damage.
In other words,
when a person has power, it damages their brain.
In ancestral societies, if someone made a grab for power and displayed an antisocial personality,
they would soon be expelled from the community
because our human ancestors exemplified "survival of the kindest".
But contemporary society displays "survival of the shameless".
Rulers in power and managers in charge get along well
because these people don't feel as much shame.
Studies have shown that 8% of business executives could be diagnosed with antisocial personalities.
Humans evolved a sense of shame
to prevent people from doing immoral things.
But a minority of people with no sense of shame dare to do anything,
which allows them to climb to the top of power hierarchy,
and convinces most people in society that human nature is inherently evil.
Now let's summarize how the good and evil of human nature appear.
Hundreds of thousands of years ago
mankind began conforming to the principle of "survival of the kindest",
living in an egalitarian, altruistic society.
But after we became sedentary, there came states, political leaders, armies, slavery.
Most people dare not do evil because of shame,
so they let shameless people control society with high power.
States waging war appears to be an 'evil deed'
but soldiers in war are driven by friendship,
because people are born to prefer their own people and reject others.
But in times of crisis, people do show their good side.
In summary,
a lot of evidence points to human nature being good, but there is still a chance people will turn "bad".
The author goes a step further and says:
How our humanity develops depends on what kind of humanity we believe in.
This is called the Pygmalion effect.
Psychologist Bob Rosenthal found
if students were asked to observe a rat walking a maze
and told that these rats were smart
students would be more gentle with the mice.
As a result, the mice would actually perform better.
Likewise,
if a teacher pays more attention to and praises a certain group of students,
this group of students feels treated differently
and their performance improves.
The Pygmalion effect also applies to human nature.
Economist Robert Frank experimented with his economics students.
The longer a student had been studying economics, the more selfish they became.
Economics kept telling them that human nature is selfish,
so the longer they stayed in the economics department
the more the people around them believed that people are self-interested, 
and they were affected by this. 
Another more classic example is prison.
The "broken windows theory" prevailed in the United States in the 1960s.
It claims that if society allows certain bad behaviors
it makes people think it's permissible and leads to more people committing bad behaviors.
So the best way to fight crime is to arrest anyone doing anything suspicious.
This is tantamount to treating ordinary people as potential criminals.
It presupposes that people are inherently bad, and only heavy punishments can deter crime.
This led to a 500% increase in the number of prisoners in the United States between 1970 and 2007.
A quarter of the world's prison population is in the United States.
But the result of mass incarceration?
Turning American prisons into boarding schools for criminals.
Repressive prison systems expose criminals to more violence, bullying, and gangs.
After this kind of person is released, they become more dangerous.
By contrast,
Norway's prisons assume that, by nature, people can feel remorse and learn through education,
so life in prison should be designed to be as similar as possible to the outside of the prison.
This will help prisoners return to their normal lives.
So Norwegian prisons are like resort hotels.
Jailers and prisoners get along like friends.
This prison design gives Norway the lowest recidivism rate in the world.
60% of prisoners in the US reoffend within 2 years, but only 20% in Norway do,
because when you treat a prisoner like a human, he or she acts like a human.
Over the past few hundred years,
our social system has been based on the assumption that human nature is inherently evil,
that children need more discipline,
that businesses need more management,
and that democracies need more politicians to lead.
But if the Pygmalion effect exists,
it means that building a society where human nature is assumed to be good
will bring out the good side of human nature.
So now, let's examine
how to create a new society with a different view of human nature.
Have you ever wondered
why today's companies pay so much to their CEOs and other management?
It's because capitalism is based on a very negative view of human nature:
that humans are lazy and incapable of self-discipline by nature,
Therefore, they need to be managed by superiors and incentivized by the company in order to feel motivated.
This management model presupposes that everyone dislikes work,
so salaries are the main way of attracting employees.
Key performance indicators (KPIs) are selected such that good performance will help employees get a raise or promotion,
when, in fact, rewards can sometimes lead to a loss of intrinsic motivation.
Psychologists conducted experiments in Israeli nurseries.
Parents were informed that if they arrived late to pick up their children, they would be fined.
As a result, the number of parents arriving late increased by 40%.
Because being on time was no longer an obligation,
it didn't matter if you were late, as long as you paid up.
Similarly,
when organizations increase external incentives, it often hinders employee efficiency and creativity.
For example, if wages are paid according to working hours, employees do simple things for a long time.
In order to produce more papers to get point rewards, scholars sometimes publish useless or even fake research.
Lawyers who bill by the hour get used to putting a price on their time,
causing them to become more selfish and less willing to do unpaid services.
Capitalist business structure is underpinned by the assumption that people are lazy and selfish.
As a result, employees really lose their intrinsic motivation and just want more salary.
But what if we designed businesses with more positive assumptions about human nature?
Dutch entrepreneur Jos de Blok was originally in management at a medical institution
He found that many people who had gone to "Effective Leadership" or MBA courses, thought that this had prepared them to manage a company.
But the truth is that employees are the ones who really know how to do things.
Managers, on the other hand, often make things very complicated.
Companies can still operate even when management is absent.
So Jos de Blok founded his own anarchist "neighborhood care" business, Buurtzorg.
He gave employees full autonomy to do things their own way.
The company has no management, no performance dividends, and no time wasted in meetings,
because these are external incentives.
Without a CEO, companies can save money and have a larger budget for other matters.
Therefore, enterprises that believe that employees can be autonomous will operate more efficiently.
The company has so far expanded to 25 countries with 10,000 employees.
By contrast,
capitalist companies believe that human nature is lazy and needs to be managed.
As a result, they create a bunch of busywork, making people feel that work is meaningless,
all while the company's earnings are taken away by management.
If we adopt a new view of human nature,
believing that people have spontaneous intrinsic motivation,
we can create a more efficient organization that empowers employees.
In recent years, the gap between the rich and the poor has been widening.
Democracy is beginning to be questioned.
Politician corruption cases have emerged one after another
Citizens are used as voting machines:
masters every four years, but slaves the rest of the time,
leading to more and more indifference to politics.
This is because representative democracy itself is built on a distrust of human nature,
Since the general populace may act with a mob mentality,
politics must be governed by civil servants and politicians.
But if we start out believing in the inherent goodness of human nature,
why not let citizens be the masters of the country and lead policy?
In 1989, a political experiment was carried out in Porto Alegre, Brazil.
The city government's budget was given directly to citizens to decide how to use it.
Hundreds of rallies were set up to allow people to debate on the spot
and vote on how the budget would be spent.
This made citizens willing to take an active part in politics,
so they would no longer feel they are just commoners who could not change the status quo
It also gave the people at the bottom a chance to speak out,
rather than being excluded from professional issues.
30% of participants were the poorest in society.
More importantly,
participatory budgeting can effectively stop corruption
because now citizens know the annual financial situation
and can decide what public projects the tax money goes toward.
It also makes citizens more willing to pay taxes
because they can see where the money was being used.
Many who joined the participatory budgeting said
that for the first time in their life they felt like a citizen.
Government officials used to sit in an air-conditioned office every day
getting taxpayer money,
but after participatory budgeting was implemented
political power was directly vested in citizens,
increasing social housing, improving infrastructure, and allowing more roads to be paved in Brazil.
This success story has led many cities around the world to adopt participatory budgeting.
When we believe that people have good intentions to transform society on their own
we become willing to delegate power to citizens,
achieving true democracy.
The last key to building a new society
is to treat "bad people" as people who have the same humanity and kindness as you.
People usually think that war proves the cruelty of human nature,
yet historians have found
that only 15-25% of soldiers actually fired during World War II.
Why is the firing rate so low?
Because when attacking at close range, soldiers are faced with the humanity of the other person
When you see that the other person is also human like you, you will be unwilling to kill.
So 75% of British soldiers in World War II died from long-range shelling,
because dropping bombs from the air doesn't require facing the enemy as a person.
When attacking this way, it does not arouse a sense of moral culpability.
In other words, "evil" comes from distance.
Psychologist Gordon Allport put forward his "contact hypothesis".
He theorized that hatred and discrimination stem from too little contact and too much distance.
For example, during World War II, the U.S. military discovered
that if an army had Whites and Blacks on the battlefield,
the experience of fighting side by side allowed Whites to discover their common humanity with Blacks.
As a result, the amount of racial discrimination decreased by a factor of nine.
If we had considered those we thought of as enemies or bad people as people just like ourselves, 
many evil deeds in history may not have happened.
During the First World War
German and British troops met on Christmas Eve on the front line.
The Germans began to sing Christmas Eve songs
and when the songs reached the British Army
something magical happened.
British soldiers were moved and decided to sing together.
The singing on both sides made both sides hear each other's humanity.
The next morning, Christmas Day,
the Germans and the British climbed out of their trenches,
stopped treating each other as enemies
and considered those on the other side as human beings just like themselves.
The two sides abandoned their weapons and hostility, shaking hands to make peace.
They even started exchanging gifts and playing football games.
Both sides also decided not to shoot after Christmas,
which is why trench warfare was deadlocked.
The soldiers on the front lines didn't want to fight at all.
Only the government officials hiding in the rear kept ordering the attack.
These people had never been in contact with the enemy
so they couldn't see that they had the same humanity.
Over thousands of years,
humans have always understood themselves with a flawed view of human nature,
that man is a selfish beast disguised by civilization.
Historical evidence, however, tells us that
people always show their good side in times of crisis.
During the Great London Air Raid in World War II, the British united to take care of the wounded.
When Hurricane Katrina hit, Americans helped each other.
After the 921 earthquake, 80% of Taiwanese people actively donated money.
Every crisis shows us that helping others is in our very nature.
It is this humanity that allows humanity to rebuild civilized societies after disasters.
Believing in the goodness of human nature also makes society itself more in line with true human nature.
Criminals can be treated as normal people, so prisons do not need to implement severe punishment.
Employees can work autonomously, so companies do not need managers in charge.
Citizens have the power to handle public affairs, so a democratic system does not need politicians.
When warring sides see each other's humanity, wars are unsustainable.
So let's start by taking the first step,
believing in the goodness of human nature
and creating a society where we treat each other kindly.