H ello , everyone . I ' m you Mingfeing from the Philoso Department of Tongji University Today. My speech is titled The Faillings of U ni verities . I believe this topic isn't meant to be sensational , but rather to provide a realistic depiction and a possible vision for the future. R eg arding, the failings of universities in recent years, ,. We've had a term to describe this phenomenon , the high schoolization of universities ,. What does high schoolization of universities mean? ? It essentially means that the image we have of what a university should be like has disappeared today . W hy is this happening. Many education experts are discussing this issue. And my personal view is that there's a keyword involved , which you've probably all heard of GPA . W hen everything in university revolves around GPA , then the university becomes just like high school ,. There are clear aspects of evaluation and it might even be more stringent than high school. In high school , you might only have five or six subjects, right? , in university , every aspect can be quantified and evaluated . N ot only your grades in each course , but also things like innovation and entrepreneurship projects. , club activities , everything can be graded . A nd the score you get will affect your postgraduate studies. , job prospects, , and potential overseas studies. Therefore, , universities are naturally becoming more like high schools . We also noticed some other related, but seemingly contradictory phenomena , For example , the problem of student engagement in class ,. Almost every university is focusing on improving student engagement in lectures at the undergraduate level . T. Here ' s also the so called low energy mode among young people . What. Does this mean , It means they stop socializing and making friends . Why? Is there a contradiction here? ? B eca use if everything revolves around GPA , shouldn't students be attending university every day like automatons , shouldn't they be very active in class ,? Why is there such a high rate of disengagement ?? I think there are two underlying reasons for this . I call these two underlying reasons, two kinds of detachment , one kind of detachment occurs when we take any course for the sake of GPA , the content of the course itself becomes unimportant in this sense . T. Here ' s no intrinsic interest in the content, leading to a detachment from the learning material . beside that , the pursuit of grades , the goal I'm striving for becomes a means to an end in my next pursuit in life. , right? ?. So at this point, , I don't really have any fundamental passion for this goal. , I'm indifferent to it. T here fore ,. There's a double burden here , making our universities ,. On the one hand, , seem to be engaged in a competition centered around grades ,. And on the other hand, , leading to a kind of unproductive competition. So at this point ,. The first thing people might think is, can we abolish the grading system? , abolishing the grading system is indeed a suggestion put forward by some education experts . H owever , if our society operates on a performance based evaluation system, , then abolishing the grading system probably won't really solve the problem. ,. It will just lead to a new form of performance based competition. T here fore ,. We need to look at the problem of the high schoolization of universities today. At this point, , we need to further examine the essence of the problem. The essence of this problem is the excessive degree of binding between majors and careers . A ll our students before entering university are already considering what major they should choose to have good job opportunities . In. This sense , before entering university , university education has already been instrumentalized ,. How can an instrumentalized education truly ignite passion? ? In. This sense , universities are outdated ,. When we ask , are universities, really outdated , from a philosophical perspective ,. There are two concepts that need reflection ,. The first concept is what is meant by university here. , and the second concept is what outdated means. , our imagination of university life is that going to university means choosing a major , and this major determines future employment prospects . T. His seems self evident , but it actually only has a history of about 150 years , and 150 years ago. ,. There was a thinker who deeply understood this problem and engaged in profound reflection on it. T. His thinker is the one I will focus on discussing with you next , and also the main subject of my personal research , N iet zs che . N iesc. He was born in 1840 and died in 1900 ,. The era in which he lived, can be said to be precisely the era of the Second industrial R evolution, , and also the era of the establishment of modern G erman y , the second German Empire as a modern state ,. During this period, Germany thanks to the second industrial revolution, , became a world power , leading a global technological and economic advancement that ushered in an era of prosperity . A series of inventions we are familiar with , such as electric lights, , telephones and railways , began to enter our lives . N iesc. He lived in such an era , and he saw it it a crisis of meaning and a crisis of civilization . In. This sense , you could say he was a thinker at a turning point in civilization, and the emergence of his thought coincided with this turning point In that era ,. He already saw the fundamental problems of modern education. We can summarize this with the phrase. The forgetting of education. This seems like a startling proposition. , doesn't it. It seems that our society , whether from the family , public opinion , or the state , places immense importance on education , right , In vestment in education is even the primary investment item for every family . B ut. Why did Ntzsche say or to put it in our own words? ? W hy did he mean that education has been forgotten , because Nietzsche said that at this time, educational institutions were confused with institutions of survival to use his analogy ,. It's like treating a fairy as a maids erv . A fairy is transcendent ,. She is not limited to happiness in this life , while a maid servant serves the happiness of this life . In. This sense ,. He said that the more we emphasize education , the more we forget education , and this forgetting is very profound because it has the outward appearance of being valued . In. This sense, , Nietzsche in that period already saw the fundamental logic of modern education and offered a profound critique . F irs t ,. As mentioned earlier , the second Industrial Revolution marked the beginning of the professionalization of education and the concept of universities being deeply tied to professions or occupations ;. Before that, we know there was the first industrial revolution , but in the first industrial revolution, , modern technology was not truly connected to science. That is to university research ,. It was mainly a matter of handicrafts, but in the second industrial revolution, things were different . T. He Germans seized this opportunity , vigorously reformed education , and connected their education to the needs of industrial professionalization. In that era, , enabling Germany to achieve great success at that time . T. He . H owever , because of this ,. This professionalized learning in this sense is merely preparation for a profession ;. The content of university education itself is not important ;. What matters is what kind of accountants, , bankers, , engineers, , etc. You produce . At this point ,. You might think that Niesche is a bit elitist , right ,. But actually, Nietzsche also saw the importance of profession in modern life . He even said that profession is the greatest good in life . He also saw that modern people in their diligent work are pursuing possible freedom and high status . We need to obtain a sense of meaning in modern life through work , to obtain a sphere of career and family that we can decide for ourselves. He didn't underestimate this . H owever ,. He said that the resulting instrumentalization of education fundamentally harms education. L et ' s look at this ,. He said that the prevailing moral view here naturally requires a kind of accelerated education ,. Because , as mentioned earlier, , education is preparation for a profession ,. So it's best to compress it as much as possible , because the next goal is the next stage to quickly become a moneymaking machine . Do. You think this is the mentality we have today when choosing majors in university and further ,. If you're going to pursue graduate studies , which he calls advanced education , then you need to become an even more capable machine. ? If you graduate with a master's degree, and your monthly salary is lower than before ,. People will ridicule you saying you've fallen into a trap that you chose the wrong major ,. Maybe you studied philosophy , right? ? B ut pay attention to one of Nietzsche's concepts . The moral view of choosing a major is preparation for a profession . This has become a moral concept for modern people . We have internalized it as our standard of self judgment . T hat is to say, , if I choose a major that doesn't lead to employment prospects ,. It's not only a failure of my choice , but I will also feel guilty , I will feel useless to society. , I will feel that I have failed my parents . . A ct uall y , when I enthusiastically entered the field of philosophy myself. , I met a good friend , a classmate who one day suddenly confided in me , saying , Ming F ing , I love philosophy as much as you do ,. But after studying philosophy, , I found that I can't fulfill my filial piety . B eca use I feel that the hopes my parents placed on me , the fact that I studied at a prestigious university , but the future employment prospects , I can't tell my parents the truth , they would be greatly disappointed , . T. He idea that the level of education one is allowed to attain is limited to what is necessary for making money sounds harsh ,. But don't we all think this way to some extent , supposeuppose you studied for four years for your bachelor's degree , As mentioned earlier , and then another two and a half or three years for your master's degree ,. But when you graduate , housing prices have risen and wages have fallen , wouldn't you feel foolish . W hat, would you think you'd think your studies were wasted or even that you shouldn't have pursued that education at all? ,? This is the attitude modern people have towards education. S peaking of this , I want to say that not only do our students have a utilitarian attitude towards education , but this utilitarian attitude is also reflected among teachers , because teaching is also a profession . A nd as a profession , as Nietzsche said , an elite scholar in a particular field is like a worker in a factory , throughout their life , they merely serve as a specific cog or screw , a particular tool or machine . I nfa ct ,. He subsequently proposed the concept of academic industry . T oday , if you want to do academic research , the first thing you think about is the number of publications and the number of projects . In. This sense , the passion for academia , the pursuit of a free spirit , the noble ivory T ower ,. When we actually enter this profession, , all of that falls away and disappears , I think this is the reality . In. This sense, , education in the modern world serves the individual's struggle for survival . B ut. Not only that , the reason we have the current state of education is also because on a larger level, , education is related to the survival struggle of the nation and the country . E arlie r , we discussed Nietzsche's critique of modern education ,. One of its backgrounds is the establishment of the modern German state , a prominent characteristic of this state , established by Prussia was its extreme emphasis on education. It particularly reforms secondary and higher education , allowing a large number of young people to receive sufficient training, and then enter professional fields , thereby cultivating a large number of excellent engineers . T he . It is precisely because the strongest modern states , like P russia , treated this supreme leadership over education in schools, so seriously that the previous political systems , while also valuing education did so with a different nature . C oup led with its unique national character and toughness , the Prussian style distorted the true meaning of German education. What does this mean , Why did Ntzsche say that it harmed the true spirit of German culture ?. B eca use in traditional countries , which we can call civilized countries , national struggles aimed towards higher , transcendent goals ; modern democratic states ,. However, , focus on survival . T here fore , when the state completely controls education , it also deprives people of the path towards transcendent, meaning This is Nietzs's profound critique of German culture ,. He said that universities have become educational machines . A mouth for reading , a multitude of ears and hands for writing that are half the number of ears ,. This is the appearance of the academic institution. That is the university . T. His is almost what we call the high schoolification of universities today. ,. This is the functioning educational machine of the university In. This sense , the university's degradation is precisely the completion of a modern mechanism . It is the ultimate realization of its potential ,. But with this , we face perhaps a profound existential problem because the instrumentalization of education is further still the instrumentalization of life itself . Do. We truly love our work 8 hours of work ,. Don't we treat it as a burden of survival , a task we have to complete in order to live ?. At this point , hasn't work been instrumentalized by us further ,. Some may think that after instrumentalizing my work , I do it for my family ,. But today, when people choose to start a family , they also consider what it can bring . T hus , almost all areas of life in principle, , can be instrumentalized within this system . So the question arises , this machine runs well , and it seems incredibly powerful after its establishment ,. But what have we forgotten? We have forgotten self passion . T. He operation of such a machine excludes self passion, ,. And in Nietzche's view, , self passion is the fundamental essence of our lives . In Nietzsche's view , our existence is not already made existence . Ourse is yet to be formed . This is his fundamental view of human life and nature . T here fore ,. We can say that Niesche's philosophy is fundamentally a philosophy of life , and this philosophy of life is fundamentally a philosophy of education ,. Because from this perspective, , education is not something outside of our lives. , merely a means for survival and competition , but rather an inherent requirement of life itself . To grow into ourselves , to have passion for ourselves ,. We need to receive education and thereby gain self knowledgege in Ntzsche's philosophy. You have grasped an important concept, and that concept is the last man . T. He concept of the Last man can be said to be the internal manifestation of the personality formed by the series of modern educational and work life mechanisms. We discussed earlier . Y es . T. He last man in German is called L, et ' sme nnc. H. It can also be translated as the final man . So. What does it mean to be a last man? , This concept is easily misunderstood . Is. The last man, someone living at the end of the world , Is. It someone who no longer procreate s , Is. It someone who is about to be replaced by artificial intelligence . A ll of these could be the last man , but they are not the inherent definition of the last man . In Nietzsche's philosophy , the last man is comparable to his more famous concept of the Ubermench O verb erman , The Ubermench is a person who embraces self transcendence as a way of life , filled with abundant self passion , The last man, correspondingly has lost the capacity for self transcendence . If, a person who embraces selftranscendence as a way of life is necessarily open to the world and the external , because their self is still in the process of becoming ,. Then the last man is ,. In principle, , a self- contain person . T, hey, possess, an extremely rigid inner self ,. In principle, ,. They are not open to the outside world and are not touched by any transcendent force . In. This sense, , if the Ubermench is destined to be an adventurous person , then the last man is a person of absolute safety . N iesc. He then saw a critical deficiency in human values here , because all values mean that we must transcend ourselves and strive beyond ourselves . B ut the last man , because they refuse any self transcendence , refuses it in principle , and therefore, ,. In this sense, , there are no transcendent values . If, they still have any transcendence ,. It is only the pursuit of the reduction of suffering because suffering is meaningless ,. So the reduction of suffering is the only meaning they can pursue . T hus , Nietzsche says that the last man thinks he has invented happiness , which is a startling statement , because happiness is probably not something that can be invented . B ut the last man , through the reduction of the desire for self transcendence and the abandonment of self passion , obtains what he calls happiness , but has he truly found happiness ?. I nfa ct , Nietzsche points out that the state of existence of modern people is probably that we want to become human, but canon We are people who want to become human. But canon Why is this. So ? B eca use when we abandon our own passions and simply instrumentalize life itself by devoting ourselves to it. , we fall into endless. In . E very one becomes a pulverized atom , and we live a life of complete calculation , even calculating ourselves , isnsn't that right, ?. B eca use every aspect of our lives can be instrumentalized ,. We inevitably face fundamental nihilism As a result ,. We lose our vibrant vitality and our lives exhibit . A kind of pursuit of happiness that is unattainable . T here fore ,. Each of us is self exploiting , internalizing self exploitation as a mechanism of life . W hat does self exploitation mean , working eight hours a day , even 996 , right , only that period of time is exploited , and you receive corresponding compensation , but this exploitation has a limit . O ur self exploitation ,. However, , has no limit , eight hours of sleep. , perhaps eight hours is too much. , compressing sleep to six hours is two hours of self exploitation . B efore going to bed ,. You might even want to listen to a lecture , a philosophy lecture to give your life a sense of fullness ,. Therefore, , not only university students , but also people in the workplace and even university professors have become . P eople, who prioritize instrumental values in life , in fact, , they are very clever ,. They calculate their own interests very clearly . T. Hey, are all immediate gratification seekers , but the gratification they seek is empty , already hollowed out ; Therefore. Our immediate gratification is only a false immediate gratification . R eg arding. This , Nietzsche said something that particularly stings us , whoever does not leave two thirds of the day for himself as a slave . I can't see everyone , Everything is dark in front of me . I feel like I'm talking to myself , but I hope you can try raising your hand if you are not a slave in Nietzsche's sense . This is probably a harsh , funs y , sarcastic critique of modern people . W hen, we talk about the shortcomings of universities today. , there is a presupposition. How does the university deeply bind majors and careers together? This issue today is shaking things. Up. T, he impact of modern technology , especially artificial intelligence. , has actually had a significant impact on the deep connection between our professions and employment in the past few years. Here's a chart for you to see. T. His is data from the world's largest job search engine . F rom 2018 to last year , the requirement for a university degree as a mandatory indicator for hiring has been steadily declining. This is a recent news item . A company in Silicon V alley , the US , called P aan tier , considered one of the most mysterious companies. , made a special hiring. Decision. T hey ' re not saying that all their hiring will be this way , but they've hired 22 people so far and may hire 400 more later ,. Because, in their view, , going to university is a waste of time . B esi des the anxiety , the impact of artificial intelligence can also give us an idea of loosening this tie . B eca use since the Second Industrial R evolution , the binding of profession and occupation has been inseparable . If. We were to loosen it ,. For example, , if I , as a philosophy, professor , told my students not to worry about employment and to study philosophy, , I would feel morally problematic. , right , I would be an irresponsible teacher . I . B ut if the future industry undergoes such profound changes , and if the entire industrial economy and education system , which have been intertwined since the second Industrial Revolution or loosened , then can we have a completely new vision for universities? ? A university that can reintegrate self passion , allowing our education and our work to align with our inner passions . T he . F inal ly , allow me to share a quote from Ntzsche with you all . I say to you, , there must still be chaos within you to give birth to a dancing star . I say to you, , you still have that chaos within you . T hanky ou .