2 plus 2 equals 4 in all places and for all time, , 2 plus 2 equals 4. But. Why , What does math tell us about the nature of reality . D avid B lins ky , Ser Elaerman and Stephen Meyer on Uncom knowledgeledge N ow . T. He . W elco me to Unmon knowledgeledge recording today in S alz, burg , A ustria . I'm Peter R obin son . David Blinsky has taught math , philosophy and English at universities , including Stanford R, ut gers , the City University of New York, and the Uniivete Du P arri . I hope you like the pronunciation Day perfect . He is the author of books , including 1 , 2 , 3 absolutely elementary mathematics and his forthcoming volume , The Perpetual R ose . a native of Romania Sergio Claermon is a professor of mathematics at P rin ce ton, , In. His own words ,. His current interests include . T. He mathematical theory of black holes , more precisely the rigidity and stability I'm reading these words without having any idea what they mean. , and the dynamic formation of trapped surfaces and singularities , close quote . I ' ll ask you to explain a little bit of that . Maybe S erg io , the director of the Discoveries Institute Center for Science and C ult ure , Stephen M eyer , started his professional life as a geophysicist . He returned to school , earning a doctorate from Cambridge in the history and Philosophy of S cien. Ce . He has established himself as one of America's leading thinkers in intelligent design . His most recent book , The Return of the God hypothesis po . D avid S erg io , S tev e , welcome in the return of the God hypothesis , Steve's latest book . He argues that three relatively recent developments suggests that science needs to return to some notion of the transcendent . And. These three developments are the big bang . T. He fine tuning of the universe and the discovery of DNA . A fte r reading Steve's book , a certain very accomplished , well known mathematician, took Steve aside and said, ,. You only named three developments that suggest a transcendent mind . T. Here ' s a fourth . S erg io ,. What does you mean by that , W ell , course , I should say Steve talked about about developments and mathematics . I sfor ever . I mean , has been around for thousands of years . So. It's not quite fair to compare , but mathematics has . By definition , deals with its own sense of it, its own reality , which is , I claim is objective as physical reality . And. So , for example, , black holes are like that , right , a black hole by definition . We have a Bamaticica theory or general activity that predicts black holes . Y eah . B ut by definition, a black hole cannot be seen . So. Nevertheless, , we , we can assert its existence why , because general activityivity is a consistent theory . So ,. So to take this black holes, scare the daylights out of me . We'll come back to black holes , I'm. Sure . But, my mind already hurts, is just when hearing about your work on the rigidity . All right . In layman's terms , which is to say, for me, , 2 plus 2 equals 4 is real . T hat ' s not a figment . It's, not an artifact of our mind of mental processes of the accidental processes that might be going on in our neurons . whether I think it's two plus 2 equals 3 or 5 , I'm wrong g. Two plus 2 does equal for . And that is objectively real . , T here fore ,. There is a conceptual objective reality that exists in outside us. It's, not material . That's, not material . And. This is actually a big deal . D avid shrugs . Y eah , of course, ,. It's a big deal . I mean , 2 plus 2 equals 4 is an interesting example , but you can derive that . B io logical inference from still more fundamental ideas , which is an exciting and interesting fact , all its own . You don't have to begin by affirming 2 plus 2 equals 4. There I stand . I can do no other . You can say , I have derived that from still more primitive conceptual items . But. When you go back and back and back and back and you ask about the initial assumptions . T. He axioms of the system , about arithmetic . T here is no additional defence that you can offer beyond the consistency of the whole , which is a very interesting position to find oneself . So I'm going to quote to you from your book . N ot 1 , 1 , 2 , 3. I think this is . I'm, hoping this is the same point, because that will indicate that I have actually understood you . quote , neither the numbers nor the operations they make possible, permit an analysis in which they disappear in favor of something more fundamental . It is the numbers . T hat are fundamental . They may be better understood . They may be better described ,. But they cannot be bettered . I I still think that's true . bear in mind , when you say two plus two equals 4 , that's an assertion . Y es ,. What I'm arguing for in that particular passage? Is that when you go back to the foundations of arithmetic in the expectation or the hope that you can get rid of the numbers , you're going to be very disappointed because they reappear , All right . I ' m going to quote David once again , but I put this to the two of you for judgment . I'm, assuming he will agree with himself , although, in David's case, , this is always a question again from his book 1 , 2 , 3 , . A cross the vast range of arguments offered , assessed , embrace braced , deferred , delayed or defeated . It is only within mathematics that arguments achieve the power to compel allegiance . No philosophical theory has ever shown why this should be . So. It is a part of the mystery of mathematics . So. You argue from some . P hilo sophi cal point that derives from Aristotle and has seemed . S tra ight , but I can still say , you know, , I'm not persuaded . But. When you say to me, 2 plus 2 equals 4 , I have to , Of course ,. You're right about that . Is that the coin . I can speak to this from the standpoint of someone whose work in the natural sciences and as a philosopher of science . The natural sciences provide empirical or observational evidence in support of conclusions . And scientists will evaluate particular theories or hypotheses by comparing your explanatory power or their predictive power , But. The logical form of those arguments is, does not render a deductively certain conclusion. Y ou ,. In the best of cases, , will make an inference to a hypothesis , which provides the best explanation . one second , . J ust distinguish deduction from in France for us. So aive. A deductive argument will start with a major premise . A ll men are mortal , a minor premise ,. Some fact about the world . Stevie. The Staff Socrates is a man . and then a conclusion., therefore, , Socrates is mortal . , And. If the premises are true and the reasoning is valid . then the conclusion can be affirmed with some kind with certainty . But in the natural sciences. ,. You start with facts that you've observed about the world . and you want to infer from those facts to either some kind of generalization that would be an inductive argument or to some sort of causal process that might explain what you're seeing around you . those arguments are typically characterize as abduct ive , the kind of detective reasoning that we we enjoy when we watch detective shows or yeah , Colombo or someone's trying to figure out who done it. And. So those abductive and inductive inferences, when you examine the logical forms, turn out not to give you certainty . They may give you plausibility . They may give you . C ompa rati ve plausibility , where one theory is very much better than another , but they don't give you the kind of certainty that mathematics alone and mathematical logic. A good scientist will never say any more than . T. He theory is X , Y , Z . And on the best evidence ,. It holds up for now. Where. A mathematician is feels perfectly confident in saying I' proven . we've proven it. We have a proof . a proof in science , the mathematicians ,. However, , are better than we when you say you prove something, you mean it. Y es , all right , O kay ,. So just go ahead , it could get wrong . But. Somebody will show you to me. It ' s. So. If this brings us to Sergio's article an inference , a magazine that you edit D avid . A rti cle s entitled Reflections on an essay by V igne r. N ow , Eugene V igne r , I have to set this up was a 2 0t h century mathematician and physicist. In 1 96 0. He wrote a famous essay , the unreasonable effectivenessness of mathematics in the natural sciences . V gne r noted his surprise that mathematics , which , after all, , goes on in our minds. , should prove so useful in describing and even predicting aspects of the physical world . O kay , can you give me a couple of examples of this ,? I mean, , what when I think to myself? , wait a minute ,. So . I have a dream in the middle of the night . I wake up ,. And it turns out it was untrue . But. If I do a mathematical equation . and I wake up , it's still true . I W ell , Serio wrote a brilliant essay . And. What he showed was that you can start with very simple mathematics and build up to more and more and more complex forms of math essentially deductively . And, then those complex forms of math ,. Take the calculus , take differential equations . they map beautifully onto the physical world to describe actual processes that are taking place in nature so that they provide very precise descriptions of things that are going on in nature . and what Viignner is alluding to is the mystery that this, the puzzle, this induces for a lot of physicists . Why. Should the math that we have developed through a series of deductive steps effectively from our own reasoning map so beautifully to processes that we sometimes haven't even observed yet . David has a number of great examples in one to 3 of mathematical structures that were developed well before they had any . cation to to , to physics . But. Then later, , were werere crucial . And. Maybe he should speak to that . Y es , well , I mean , it's not . , I mean , Eugene Bigger raised a very interesting point . And people have been discussing it. If. You look at theoretical physics , the great structures , Newtonium mechanics, , general relativity, , quantum mechanics . Y ou can't do it without a lot of mathematics . You just need a whole lot of mathematics . And vi ray. The question is . Y ouk now ,. We need mathematics to do quantum mechanics , but we don't need entomology . How come. The bugs don't figure in quantum mechanics , But, the numbers and the complex numbers do . And. That is a rewarding and a provocative question , but we don't have to turn to quantum mechanics . There's a glass here. There's, a glass here. One glass , one glass . How. Many glasses are in front of you . 2 , from where do you derive that assurance , that there are two glasses in front of you , It's, not a physical observation , because nothing in the physics that the situation reveals the fact that one in one or two. That is something so one would think that's additional . N ow ,. We can break that all down into smaller steps . And. That's what logicians have done in the 2 0t h century . They've shown us that the method of proof can be decomposed into very small steps . In fact , so small, a computer can execute them. A nd, the initial assumptions can be made so general , in fact, , so general that they encompass all of mathematics, as in set theory or categories theory for that matter . B ut. We are in all this in a rather an awkward position. I happen to be looking out at a beautiful Alpine lake now. And. Just imagine, we see somebody on the other shore who begins walking across the water without any assistance whatsoever . He's just crossing , walking one step in front of the other . and he's crossing the lake toward us. A nd, he comes completely dry . He appears in front of the television camera ,. And we say, , how did you do that? , And, he says, , well, , I took very small steps . I took very small steps . N ow , our natural reaction would be . that's commendable . And. You got to cross . But somehow or other ,. It's not the answer to the question. And. We are all in the position of watching someone cross a large bottle body of water and explaining his success . by saying , look at my feet . Small steps . That's, where we are. O kay ,. So , so S erg io ,. Let me go back to your essay . I'm quoting you once again . The mystery Vigner points out . A risi ses, in part from the perennial question of whether mathematics is a science . A dva nce d by exploration and discovery , like the main physical theories, or whether it is in an invention , a creation of the human mind . I argue that mathematics developed through exploration and discovery . That is to say, , it is like a nugget in the ground . You find it., correct . It has its own ,. Okay . Y eah , no , absolutely , I mean . O ne image that you could make is that of an alcheist that this is going trying to go on the top of the mountain . He has ans doing alpine metaphors today. He has an idea where he wants to go , right? , So. That's very important . That's part of doing mathematics . It's. Not just it's not just deduction . sort of a vision of where you want to go , which is very important . In, which right , has something to do his inspiration . But. Then then you know, , you have something very objective in front of you , right? ,. The stone is of the alcheist that you have to take into account that you're not going to fall. You , you have to touch the stone, know exactly where you are going And. If you don ' t , you get into trouble . I is very similar . people have the feeling that everything is deductive . It's not . I mean , . It is very similar in that respect to physical sciences . physical sciences also , you have some idea of . Y ou Y ouh ave , let's say, , an expectation . You make a hypothesis , right , right , The choice of a hypothesis is not a deductive thing . It's. Just it's an insight . And. Then you try to show that that it fits everything else, all the other experiences . So. And that's the process of proving right , So. You have the once you have the process of discovery . But, then the process of justification , the process of justification . So mamat ics ,. At the end of the day., It looks like a chain of logical sequences that the computer can also , I mean ,. Once you , you have the chain , the computer can . Go very fast to it and maybe even check . So. There are no yet no computers that can check large . I mean , they can check small , small proofs , but not blood . in any case, , it's sort of a very good example . I think that illustrates very world relations between math . Take geometry . So. The geometry was the first really theory of the physical world . right , I mean ,. It's what it describes going to E ucl id . Is that what it goes right , So you try obviously try to make sort of mathematicalmatic statements out of, but it's a physical theory without doubt . geometry is a physical theory . Then it , it develop . So here comes up, something specific to mathematics, different from physics . mathematicians can take a theory . and then develop . B ase d on very different criteria than a physics is to do . So, you know, ,. They are interesting in problems because they are beautiful or because because they . T hey feel that it will lead to certain understanding of something. Else. A nd this freedom , really , in the case of geometry world for , I don't know , 2000 years without essentially no connection back to the physical world . I mean ,. The Ukrainian geometry was there to start with . But. Then by the 19 th century, , you have you have gaus . have robot aches ky ,. You have gauss . You have R iman . O kay . Y ou have Minkovsky at the beginning of , of the 2 0t h century . And. Then all of a sudden , all that stuff becomes essential ingredient . I mean ,. It's not just , you know ,. It's not just a technical . It's an essential ingredient of or special and general activity . R ight , so comes directly applicable to fundamental physical theory . And I think this has happened many , many times in. And maybe it's not very well . It ' s not very well acknowledged . So can I ask when you S er . N eed less to say, , I cannot evaluate your work on my own because you have done a 2000 page proof, , 2000 pages of close mathematical reasoning . I could have . I could live to 2000 and not . I could read a page a day or page a year. It still would escape me , I'm sure . A nd, this was on the stability of some aspect of Ein that E inst ein . So may I ask . D id, you think you were doing a work of art , creating something beautiful ,? Or did you think you were interrogating reality . Do. You see that I'm trying to understand what you what it felt like to you as a working mathematician, regional ally . It's a very deep, deep , very difficult problem . And. The answer is both . I mean , I would take the problem in the first place . I'm. A mathematician are not the physicist . I'm interested in I, believe that the best mathematics is connected, somehow physics in complicated ways . So, but there are many problems in physics . and I would pick the one that satisfies my aesthetic feeling as a mathematician . So. That's aesthetic feeling . So explain that . you want something something I something that I feel is very beautiful . it's very profound . It gives lots of any interesting questions. Okay, ,. So that's one aspect . But then then has to be the for me , at least to be a second aspect , which is that it should say something about the physical world . And. In this case, , it does . right , I mean , the care solution . So here how it goes , right? , You have general activity , which was well formulated bench line in at the end of 2015. So 1, 915 E x. And. This was at the time , a new theory of gravity . Y eah , massive bodies curve . S pit what's called space time . And then . T hen certain solutions forchi was the first to found in 201 6 a year , immediately a year after found the so calledwachi solution , which is a stationary solution, was out of symmetries that you can actually extract from from the serial of relaivity for the ancient equation is exact formula. And that had LED to lots of issues because it has a singularity. This is connected later on was penro singularities, or for which he actually got a nobel price . He's, the only mathematician to have gotten a nobel pricing in physics . W hich is what . T. Here ' s nobody yet in as the math applied so beautifully to the right, or to a question to a question that was very emerging . , was very . And. Then there was a second , second major development by care . This was 1 96 3. where the care solutions was . O kay ,. So now you have a cat family , which includes S ch . It. It's a large family , depending on two parameters . So. These are exact solutions of the underlying equation , right? , I mean , you know, from Ma M a. F rom a mathematical point of view , they are real because for me, , reality . M athe matical reality has to do with objective fact that these are solutions of an equation . which you can write down . I ts ,. It's conceptually . And man , just . So. If I understand one of the remarkable things about E inst ein . By the way , Of course , correct me . jump in . I'm doing baby talk here , because that is the top of my form when it comes to this material . Y eah . A ins hin comes up with general relatively in 1 915 . And. Here we are in 202 5. And theres still experiments . There have been experiments that have been done over the course of the succeeding century as new satellite , new technology makes new experiments . A nd every single time , its the theory of general relativity is proven out . That is to say, , this theory that Einstein came up with on a chalkboard . F or a century of experiments now ,. It turns out to correspond with and predict reality and your work , if we could somehow devise experiments . On black holes , your work would prove out . it's real to that extent . So I like to call it a test of reality . So. The fact that the care solution is stable . R ight , It ' s a mathematical statement , but with a lot of physical content , because let's say if it was not stable . So, it's a solution , a correct solution of the national equation , which starts with specific initial conditions . right So. The issue of stability is now you make more perturbations of the initial conditions ,. And all of a sudden , you get something entirely different , which is nothing to do with a solution that the care solution . that I would be called instability , right? , So. If the care solution would be uns , it means it doesn't have any physical meaning , right ,. Because you know, it doesn't correspond to anything that you can recognize in nature is corresponding to that right? So the stability. The issue of stability is a fundamental issue in. It's a market reality . You can say So I call it a mathematical test of reality . let us what's going on here. So interesting explic, for . Well I'm. Just from a philosophical point of view. Here. O kay . Is that there's a deep assumption that, that , which is mathematically consistent , coherent , stable , is going to give us a guide to physical reality . as if there's a rationality built into the physics that somehow matches the rationality that's at work when we're doing this. This type of advanced mathematics . And so's. That's the viignner mystery . ,. Why does the reason within match . T, he rationality of nature, , external to us , the reason without . All right , So. Now now we move into territory . I ' m already in over my head ,. But I continue swimming . It gets deeper . May offer a simple thing that might help just with because we got into the field equations of general relativity and the solutions and But Serju started initially talking about geometry . , And. Just the idea that mathematical objects have stable properties . This is why mathematicians regard them as real . circle has certain basic properties . it's got a circumference area , and we can calculate these things . And. Those properties are true for all people who think about circles . their stable properties that that geometric object has that we can describe mathematically . that's independent of our minds . and yet. And yet, the stability of those properties is a token, as Serew has explained in our recent conference . It's, a token of reality of a mind, objective reality , a mind, independent objective reality . And. That's why mathematicians don't think that they're inventing . Y eah . N ew mathematical formulas , I think, almost almost universally feel that they're they're discovering something , not inventing . W ell ,. There are some who ' t , B ut ,. But what's interesting is that physicists always referred to mathematics as being an invention of the human mind . That's what beginner says . S orry , Einstein says an invention of human . but thickness says something very similar . So I'm always surprised to see that . E inst ein felt he invented the general. No , no , no , Einstein hears that mathematicians invent things . right , So. He actually called it a free creation of the human mind thread . So far, which he meant what . It ' s not really clear, because if it's a free creation of the human mind, , Why are mathematical propositions, so dreadfully necessary. , I didn't have much choice about two plus two equals 4. And. I presume you didn't either . But there kind of at odds with the notion of spontaneous spontaneously reaching an invention like addition . doesn't seem to be an invention at all . But I have a reason why physes do that , because and I doubt that Newton would have said that . No , it's modern ,. It's modern phys who materialists . They do believe that there is just matter And everything the mind , including has to be determined . they can't be right. About. , here noticeable's in in the dialectic here. The mathematicians, who are doing the the math that are developing the math . Y eah . T yp icall y believe that they are discovering something that is real and independent of their mice, not inventing something like an internal combustion engine, or exactly . I mean , any invention has to have a starting point , right , So. It means that before that starting point, , that mathematical fuck did not exist , right , Vior areaium was not true before Pauorra discovered it , It's kind of ridiculous . But. How can anybody who who how . O kay . T here must be complexities here. Im there complexities . I'm not grasping , but 2 plus 2 equals 4 iss true for me . It's true for you . It's true for D avid . No matter. How perverse David may be feeling at any given moment is still true . It's true . And. It has been true for all time . T here fore ,. There is something isnn't that , doesn't that just put a stake in the heart of materialism right there? , Something exists outside us. S ome thing we can call it reason . We could call it P la . O kay ,. So let's go to P lato . If I understand this much in the R epub lic ub , Plato draws a distinction between the intelligible world . The sensible world is what we can . S ee and touch . And. The intelligible world is that which we can . Is intelligible to us , but access the we can access through the intellect . O kay ,. And so that's where he places his ideal forms . There is a circle out there . There is a triangle out there . P lato says it does have an independent existence , but he seems to suggest that there ' s ,. There's a realm of ideal forms someplace out there . Aquinas comes along , 1500 years later . A nd says ideas exist in minds . A nd something that is true for all of us and for all time, that is intelligible, but immaterial exists in the mind of G od , D avid . Y eah , maybe . David was never more David than in that very moment. , I can't make any sense of the discussion so far . That's my problem . T here is a problem to which Viggno was calling attention , which is a real philosophical problem . That is that mathematics is essential for every physical theory . It cannot be the case . U nless. It's a trivial explanation that there is a physical theory that physically explains mathematics . I ,. If a man proposes to catch a carp by baiting, his hook with a carp, he's engaged in a trivial pursuit . He has the carp . If. We need a physical theory that includes mathematics to explain mathematics , We no longer have a physical theory . we have a physical and a mathematical theory . And. That's the dilemma . I think the deep dilemma to which bigner is calling attention ,. There are certain principles, we'd like to hold on to . It's part of the cultural imperative . We'd like to hold on to this fundamental idea . The world is physical . We live in a physical world . I ' m not saying this is a commendable idea . I'm saying it's a cultural imperative because it seems so reassuring , Look we're faced with impo dera bles . The basic fact ,. The thing is a material or a physical object . It is very inconvenient, , culturally and intellectually to come to the conclusion that in order to understand that physical object , we need a whole lot of non physical facts about mathematics . A nd in order to explain a whole lot of non physical facts about mathematics , there is no conception of a physical theory without mathematics that can do the explaining . So. We are left in the position that if mathematics is as useful as Sergey and Steve says , and they're absolutely right about that ,. It's useful in daily life . Y eah . T. Here is something fundamental wrong, fundamentally wrong with our idea of the world as a physical system . ' s something cannot be right . Something has to get . Either. We develop physics physical theories with no mathematics . Feynman conjectureed something of this sort . or we agree that materialism simply cannot be right . One of the two , but something has to go . But Physists, who, until now, , at least have not given up on the idea of Ph deal . No. So that ' s ,. That ' s ,. That's a issue , but they're not reckoning with the dilemma that David just described . I. Think And not me , I mean , that has been in the literature for at least 50 years or 6 years . even don' understand all of you , bright people . If something's been in the literature for half a century . which essentially is a stop sign . Y eah . S aying , wait a moment . Wait a moment . Wait a moment . You have a basic decision to make here about the nature of reality . Either. It is then how can the academy , How? Can you academics just ignore it? , W ell , So okay , so I don't know why . And and like David I hold you responsible . I don't want to talk. About. H e. E xis t issues of existence ideas, , platonic ideas . maybe its it's a step too far . And that maybe we agree . , but I have a operational definition of reality . So reality is consistency of representations of a particular object . I mean , that's true in physics. And the extreme mathematics . Mathematic objects are real . A mathmatician, who works on , on a mathematical problem . Y eah . C alcs in this way, , calculating that other way, , always get the same reason . I mean ,. There's something so obviously objective about what we do , right , that somehow to claim that these are just inventions of the human mind is ridiculous to me. , I mean . Y eah . T. Here is a way to defend any position and philosophy . I mean ,. We could argue that there are inventions of the human mind , because the human mind is the only thing that really exists . After all ,. There's a very noble tradition going right back to B are rc ley , which makes exactly that case to be is to be perceived . B ut? There is something that inhibits a return to Bklayan idealism . I nth at ,. It sounds vaguely preposterous to say the only thing that exists is a mind . It doesn't comport with the magnificence of the physical theories. Weve do about. It just doesn ' t. That's not an argument . It's an observation . Y eah . B ut having said that, , we , we are really in danger of being reduced to an ever narrowing ice flow. The ice flow ,. As Serge just mentioned, , is the consistency of representations . W. Ell , representations is kind of an obscure term . Why. Don't we get down to basics . It's the consistency of our theories . W ell ,? What is the theory? , W ell ,. We can provide an answer to that. A theory is kind of a large group of sentences . and what are sentences . They are things that make certain kinds of assertions that can be true or false. And if they're consist . T hat is about as good as we can get in terms of the credibility and commendability of a theory . So, we're reduced now on our ice float is saying , well, ,. We have a representation or a theory about the physical world , and it's consistent ,. But when we examine it , we find out it is not a physical object . It invokes non physical substances , like mathematical objects . We don't have to say, , we need not make a decision. Do. They exist in the mind or the exist in the external world , They exist. That's, all we need . T. He number two exists . I don't have to tell you , well ,. It exists in your mind exists . my , That's in a realm . It exists . That's the determinative statement . And as long as it exists . And. We acknowledge ,. It's not physical . Then. We're left with a position of saying ,. How come our best view of the physical world incorporates things that are not physical . Why is that , existence is an notological question , I prefer reality. , is something that I can work with , Well existence , I don't know . when , when it comes to issue existence . If he lost . right. I don't New field exists . F . I mean , I don't know what What doesn exist. What intrigues me in all this is the idea that those mathematical objects , whether it's the quadratic equation or a circle or more advanced forms of mathematics have stable properties . they, when when the of consistency, your talking I talk about reality . Y eah , prefer reality objectivity . Y eah, , and consistency . Y eah ,. What Ser you was saying is that these , these mathematical structures or objects have an a reality that's independent of whether or not I affirm those properties myself . their mind, independent And, yet they're conceptual . Y eah . E ss enti ally , they're not material or conceptual . So. It does raise the question. Where do they reside in what if there are concepts . And? This is where Vicki we're moving in this direction by by bringing Plato and Plato had the idea that there are conceptual realities that exist in some sort of of heavenly realm ,. But Aquinas's critique of that was that doesn't make it's not consistent with our experience, , ideas exist in minds And. So if there are these objective properties of material of mathematical structures that are independent of our minds . And. If these mathematical structures are themselves conceptual . it implies not that they're floating around someplace . but they, they originate or reside fundamentally in some transcendent mind . that's the theist dictate tape . So Steve on the mathematical realism . Steve says math exists in the mind of G od . And Sergio says, don't bother me with that . And. We're working mathematician . I need is a piece of chalk and and a blackboard an operational definition of reality , right? , the notion that somehow everything that's real ,. It's physical doesn't make sense to me because mathematical objects are also here. And I think we're all saying, whichever , you know, , when you slice this, whether you ' re . I think's, absolutely right . I mean , even if we adopt Barclay's position that to be is to be perceived . We right ,. We wind up at the same position that a thoroughly, consistent and coherent , coherent view of the universe simply can't be physical . Y eah , simply can agree . O kay ,. That actually . T hat actually strikes even my little mind as a really quite profound . I ' m not going to call it an insight . It's, a discovery . something . It's a real aspect of reality itself . Can I revert back to something earlier in the conversation It's just something that from David's book , He gave gave a talkca in the US on this one time . And. It just ,. It just was so intriguing to me . It was , I think it was from your book 1 , to 3. when you were talking about it on the road . And. It was , ,. He showed how , I think it was the complex variables , a complex numbers . Remember. The square root of negative one from math . There's. This whole mathematical apparatus that's been developed around complex numbers . Y eah . A nd. It seems like it has absolutely nothing to do with anything . But. There's a whole body of mathematics on this . I took a course in grad school on complex variables . And David showed that this was invented something like what was 140 or developed discovered 140 years before 00 , maybe 200 . And then lo and behold ,. It's absolutely crucial for doing quantum mechanics , which is our most fundamental physical theory or one of them. No. But if I can , least correct , what is fascinating about the histo for the invention of the number I I it. But it came up in Italy in the . Y eah . Y ouk now 14 th century , 14 1t h century , No , little earlier , I 145 0. Y eah , okay, , 14 50 a bit earlier , maybe ,. But in any case, , it was based on their desire to solve equation . So. They wanted to solve the quadratic equation . There was a formula already . They Arab apparently also new it order. In any case ,. They they went the third order equation . And. They found that it it pay to introduce this symbol square root of - 1 , which makes no sense . You cannot take the square root of - 1 , right? , But. They just put it there . And. They made this incredible observation that you can use this number. And at the end ,. You are getting a solution of a cubic equations , which are all real . nothing to do with those complex numbers . but they enter into the formula So. This was quite an amazing thing , right? , So, then little by little , they got used to this using square root of - 1. And at some point in the 19 th century . It was even made more formal, was given a dramatic dramatic definition of scores of - 1, and have complex numbers and complex functions . And. Then the enormous amount of publications came out of it. So. It's it square or - 1 is is obviously real ,. It existed before it was discovered by . theres, a very interesting . I I mean the basic in 9 grade . when they introduced negative numbers , I start paying attention . negative numbers No , Nothing to do with reality . But I was wrong. Then . Peter is not negative . These are complex numbers . The square root of- 1. negative numbers of- 1 - 2 think of deaths . We're not talking about deaths now ,. We're talking about a complex number , but here's the extraordinarily interesting point . You got this . W eir d old Italian mathematician of the 1 5t h century, who figures out that if I introduce the symbol I equals the square root of -. 1. I can solidify a chain of inference and come out with the right answer . Just absolutely amazing . H owever ,. When mathematicians start to think about it , it's entirely possible to get rid of the square root of -. 1. Y eah . In favor of two real numbers and a set of rules for manipulating them. All of a sudden ,. The square root of - 1 is gone . You're left with what you began with the real numbers, 3 and 7 in a certain order and obeying certain rule , a multiplication of rule , which is essential . So. Yes, , the complex number. the complex number. It's, a new multiplication rule , which was not did not exist in the real of of real what iss called real natural numbers . But that that introduce a very interesting analytical point that ontology can be reduced in favor of a system of rules and regulations . You can reduce the ontological burden of mathematics . You can say . Y eah . I ' m going to get rid of the numbers in favor of the sets . I'm going to get rid of the complex numbers in favor of ordered pairs of real numbers . I'm going to get rid of the real numbers and favor of convergent sequences . I'm going to get rid of so much . But as you reduce the burden of ontology , you increase the burden of your regulations . So. You actually never get to the point where mathematics appears from nothing . You never get to that point . L ike . Bi ologist just being the affirmation of what's really true . something substantially real . I mean , biologists love to say, life comes only from life, 19 th century It's, obviously, true . Life comes only from life and how it might not come from life is an utter mystery , but it's also true that language comes only from language . And. It's additionally true that mathematics only comes from mathematics . These seem to be processes with which we have a good deal of experience , which have no point of origin . There is no place in which mathematics originates . There is no place in which language originates . and there is no place in which life originates . They may well be fundamental features of the universe itself . B ut. Nevertheless, , mathematics has a history . So in this article , But, it's infinite . In the past , right , I mean , was human . So. There is something human about ma There's, a history of our discovery , but not a history to the realities . exactly that we are discovering the way we discover right , okay . D avid ,. This is you in a recent . This is a conversation you had . I think with Steve in C ambridge . I'm going to quote a passage . Hold up a finger . C ould. This finger be a different color , Y es ,. Could it be slightly longer , Y es ,? Could it be crooked , Y es ,? But it could it ever be anything other than one finger . No , the number is obligatory . The number ,. The number is something the finger essentially has , . A ll right . So. Now we're in the realm of Aristotle and the difference between essence . E sse, ntia l properties and nones and accidents, , essential properties and accidents explain this . W ell , I feel it' on tiptoeing really well . R ob . All right , right , So numbers represent an essential aspect of reality . That's, a big deal . W ell ,. It's a very general statement . I much prefer God forbid me , forgive me for introducing H eide id egger . I much prefer his formulation . Heidegger, and they're very interesting passages in his work . I admit it , and he says, , look ,. When we look at objects . Y eah . We cannot separate the oneness of this glass from the object itself , but we can change the color . We can change the shape of the story, the same object . But. We can say this one object could have been two. that just doesn't go . So. When we talk about physical objects . We're only talking now about physically realizable objects . T heir, mathematical art aspects are essential to them. What holds for numbers also holds for shape . We don't have to do what Eugene Vigner did and say, , look at quantum mechanics and the remarkable fact that Hilbert spaces require introduction of complex numbers . N ow , just look at the glass . The glass requires the introduction of a natural number. O kay . T wo glasses require the introduction of two natural numbers . That is , is every bit as mysterious as the invocation of complex numbers in quantum field theory . Every bit is mysterious , and we don't know quite why . O kay ,. So all three of you are willing to agree . ? All three of you are willing to insist that mathematics . T. He existence of mathematics , the weird way in which mathematics seems to correspond with and help us to investigate reality in a way that is real . I'm using reality over over again, , proves . T hat reality is not purely not limited to what we can access by our five senses . It's, a hint . It doesn't prove it's a hint . now, I've lost deep ground even from that . So. All we have is a hint . So. Why aren't you , I think Steve is willing to go N ow , here I am putting words into Steve's mouth . Steve is willing to say . We ' re dealing here with the mind of ,. Think what D avid s. And David is David won't do that. No matter how much I you down and you would I give I'll give you sort of an example of something like this . So, you know, , immediately after N ewto n , there was N ewto nian . the idea was the Newtonian mechanic has to explain everything . then came M axwell , the Maxwell equations . And. In order to . A dju st. The maximum equations to his onlyium mechanics . You need. They need this notion of ether . right , So ,. You know, , ether here. Is that there are. At some point , I mean , Einstein's great insight was we don't need it. , So. It's the same thing . I believe we don't need this materialistic representation . Just. Forget about it. reality means something broader than that . It's inconsistent with the most obvious presentation of mathematics itself . It ' s ,. It's obvious that mathematical properties are not material . You can . Y eah . I nv ent a metaphysical system that explains that away . That's. Why it's not a proof . But. So nobody proved the eat is not . does not exist. right , We just get rid of it. , And I think that's what we should do about it. , I think I could agree with that . But going back to your last remark , P eter , I think it's just much simpler to say that the mystery is just the existence of mathematics . It ' s just that , because it's fundamental . We could well say, , and , of course, , philosophers have well said, we can get rid of the physical world . M eta physically ,. That's not a problem . Barcley showed how everything is a perception or an idea . E xte rna l world just disappears , but we can't get rid of the mathematical world . That's inel imitable . A nd its existence is a profound mystery . What. Is it doing there . Why? Do we see things in mathematical terms? , N ow , I'm not asking this question because I have a secret answer . I'm prepared to aboutge say . I was hoping you wrap up the conversation with the , I find it a great mystery. , The sheer existence of mathematics is deeply puzzling . You will agree with every word of that . Y eah , totally and and you will agree . but can you take it farther . Y eah . W ell , I just am intrigued with this kind of argument that I recapitulated earlier in the conversation that that mathematical objects have stable properties . T here fore ,. They have an objectivity that is independent of our minds ,. And yet, they are conceptual , which suggests suggests by our experience that they must . Y eah . N ot be floating around somewhere in the Platonic heavens ,. But rather , it makes more sense to me to think that they ultimately issue from the mind of G od . and that, that is the deep reason for the mysterious applicability of mathematics to the physical world . There in mind , S tev e. , re reaching a position very close to Barcley's position B arc ley , Bishop I mean, , if you say that to be is to be Bishop B arley ' s1 7 th century British 1818 th century English churchman and philosopher, who appears possibly most famously in Boswell's life of Johnson when Boswell Barkeley Johnson kicking a rock . But. The point that Barley faced the obvious question , If. You're not looking at the moon , Einstein discusses this , too , Does. The moon continue to exist. And Barcley's response was , Y es ,. It exists as a thought in the mind of G od , which is very close to what Steve was just A gy , although he's certainly not , I'm, not B arc ley . Yeah I. Don't think the physical world is has a , I think it has . Md and independence of our mind of the mind of God who created it. But I think the ultimate source of mathematical reality may well be the mind of G od . But. It's interesting that you are. P repared to go further than , I think many contemporary analytic philosophers prepared to go in the direction of a Bkan kind of analysis , which I think is ,. In this case, , the only analysis that makes sense , at least for math . , at least for math , because it is so mysterious boys , I'm going to attempt for last question here. I'm going to attempt to introduce one new concept . A nd, that is the concept of beauty . I have no idea how this will go . But. Here's an excerpt from the forthcoming documentary , the story of everything . T. Here ' s something in science called the beauty principle that says, true theories, often convey a mathematical beauty or structural harmony . U pon looking at their model of the DNA molecule , Francis Crick was quoted as saying ,. It's so beautiful . It's got to be right . Explain that . W hat should enter into this . we don't really know , but it tends to be what's called a heuristic guide in science , a guide to discovery . And in the , in the section of the film that follows ,. There were maybe perhaps even more trenchant comments from a couple of the physicists who were saying how often their perception of mathematical beauty had been a guide to discovery . I think it was Paul D ira c , who first said that it's more important for the theories . beautiful than than to have them consistent with the data , because eventually . Y eah . W ell , because we can be mistaken about how we're perceing the data . But there. There is assumption that there's something mathematically beautiful about , about reality itself. Intelligibility . was mesmerized by who direct did I. , was mesmerized by , and you said a moment ago when you were choosing . Y eah . P roj ect s on which to work . you , I think you use the word . I. It elegant . Is it beautiful , , Of course , So. Why is that the solution is an incredible , incredible object , I mean , very , really beautiful . I mean , yeah ,. Are we on another mystery here? , an aesthetic mystery beauty . P lala ys, a fundamental role , of course, , in the way we choose problems , but also in the way we are guiding ourselves towards the truth , I mean , towards the solution of a problem . S ome, how , we reject , reject arguments, which are contrived , which are not beautiful . We, don't call them beautiful . Y eah , I mean , it's mysteriously true . And physics , of course, , is full of such examples . M axwell , you know, , the the M axwell ,. The way the Maxwell equations were discovered . it was first fara day who had the three laws of like mine that he's already discovered experimentally . That's right . And then, but he was not a mathematician at all . So. He , he just . O kay . He just left it there . Let just stated the laws . And. It was Markwell who realized that if you put those statements within M ae matic s , there is a lack of symmetry . sort of guided him towards a fourth one. W hich led to electromagnets . So in all of us , technology of of the modern world , beauty , Maxwell with M axwell , , you're comment upon beauty . Y eah , I'd like to hear from these guys because , I kind of reserve that for my tailors . A nd , you know, , I can tell you that is a working mathematician . It plays absolutely a fundamental role in everything people do . There are very few mathematicians, who would say, , I work on this because it ' s ,. It ' s. It ' s just ugly , right , I mean , you know, , they , they choose the problems or directions . B ase d on genetic party line survey ,. There are all sorts of mathematical drabs that we keep hidden . Nobody's gonna tell me turbulence is a beautiful subject . Oh ,. It ' s ,. It's a fantastic, fantastic ,. But not beautiful, clumsy lumbering . W ell , but ,. But the expectation is that we'll find . Y eah . We find the beauty in 3 as by expectation purchased beauty comes at famine prices . , kickick him because he's being perverse . N ow . ' s ,. He's he's being mischievous . Last question , Isaac N ewto n. T. He man who gave us mathematics that on astronomy , fluid dynamics and calculus . And Newton explains a lot . Here's, a quotation from N ewto. N. A heavenly master governs all the world as sovereign of the universe . C lose . A recognition of the divine or a mind that transcends our own is taken for granted for thousands of years . as recently as N ewto n. And, then it gets kicked out . Of intellectual life and kicked out of the academy . Does the mystery of mathematics suggest . T hat. The materialist error was an aberration that ought to , and may be . M ay be ending now. Are you willing to go that far , S tev e , , of course, , I think that's exactly right . And. What Newton illustrates so beautifully is that this , this principle of intelligibility that we've been talking about , that the mathematical rationality that can be developed by mathematicians without necessarily observing nature . Y eah . D oes then apply to understanding the rationality that's built into nature . And. This was so crucial to the period of the scientific revolution. When these the systematic methods for interrogating nature for studying nature were developed and culminating in figures that maybe is no figure like N ewto n , who was so profound in his his insight and who advanced . W hat was called natural philosophy that or science so much in one generation , even even in one year , his fame and mib ilo us , where he . W ent home during the plague to remediate his own deficiencies in mathematics and came back having invented the calculus . It. So a heaven Lou masters ter , D avid . A ll right , what can I say , that insight has not been vouchaf to me . F aire nough . S erg io , W, ell , okay, , so , 1s of all , I think material should , I mean , materialism is just the only explanation of of the world should be put in the Ash binov his . So that that that we both agree . bringing God in . sure , why not ? I mean , that's another way of looking at the world . whether if there is something else. W ell , let's find out . Maybe. There is another explanation . But at this point , I don't see any reason why you should not look at that possibility ,. So . G od exists . Me , And why not , Ser K leer man, , David Blinsky and Steve M eyer , gentlemen , thank you . Then our privilege , P eter . F or uncommon knowledge , the Hoover Institution and Fox N ation , I'm Peter R obin son .