I wonder if anyone has noticed this when they go out lately?
Many businesses have shortened their opening hours.
The shops were closed all afternoon.
Taiwan is entering an era of severe labor shortages.
According to 104 Job Bank research
Currently, the number of online job openings has reached 1.125 million.
The average recruitment time for companies is 60.3 days.
In other words, after the company posts a job opening...
It will take two months to recruit people.
Why has the labor shortage become so severe?
Today I'm going to introduce the book "The Great Labor Shortage".
We need to explore the root causes of the labor shortage.
In the era of massive labor shortages
What will be the future of capitalism?
This book describes the situation in Japan.
However, Japan's declining birthrate and aging population are very similar to Taiwan's.
Therefore, their experience is very worthy of our reference.
Let's take a look at today's episode.
The impending era of massive labor shortages for capitalism
2026
Taiwan's newborn population falls below 100,000
We have officially entered a negative growth society where the number of deaths exceeds the number of births.
It was a living hell.
According to the National Development Council's estimates
By 2040
Taiwan's working population will drop to 13.17 million
That is, within 15 years
The working-age population will be nearly 3 million fewer than it is now.
Japan's labor shortage is even more severe.
According to the author's research
Japan will face a labor shortage of 11 million people by 2040.
There are 31 regions across the country with a labor force adequacy ratio below 75%.
Which industries are most affected by the labor shortage?
The relationship between labor input and productivity from 2007 to 2010
Industries can be divided into four quadrants.
The first type is
Reduced manpower
However, industries where productivity is actually increasing
For example, manufacturing and construction industries
Although manpower has decreased
But due to continuous automation
Able to complete the work with fewer people
Retail industry is also
With self-checkout becoming more and more popular
Many businesses don't need that many employees.
In comparison
Some industries are experiencing a labor shortage, leading to a decrease in the number of workers.
Productivity also declined.
Industries such as transportation, postal services, catering, and services
Both situations involve a reduction in manpower, which in turn leads to a decrease in productivity.
Because these industries are not easily automated.
With fewer people, efficiency decreases.
The third category is even more serious.
healthcare and health insurance industry
These industries have increased their human resource investment.
However, productivity did not increase.
In other words
Society needs more and more medical staff
Just to maintain the current service level
The authors conducted in-depth simulations.
If the labor shortage continues until 2040
What might happen?
First, there's the logistics issue.
Due to insufficient driving
Many products could not be delivered.
Delivery will be delayed.
It will be difficult to find 24-hour delivery services in the future.
Next is the traffic issue.
Bus routes are starting to decrease
The number of flights also decreased.
There is also a shortage of manpower in construction projects.
Many infrastructure projects lack manpower for maintenance.
Japan is the same as Taiwan
Places that are often affected by natural disasters and typhoons
Therefore, as long as a major disaster occurs
The recovery of society as a whole will be slower and more sluggish.
There will also be a shortage of teachers in schools.
The school can't find a teacher to teach.
Many schools may be forced to downsize or even close down.
Furthermore, there will be a shortage of long-term care staff in the future.
Previously, we could hire a caregiver for four days a week.
There may only be three days left in the future.
This means everyone should make time to take care of the elderly in their families.
We can no longer rely entirely on the care of others.
And the aging of the working population
Because companies can't find young people.
Senior employees must postpone their retirement age
I may have to work until I'm seventy or eighty years old.
The Tohoku region of present-day Japan
The deliverymen are mostly elderly people over 60 years old.
Japan has the highest employment rate among people aged 65 and over in the world.
Up to 25%
In the future, companies will also be required to provide better compensation.
Fight for talent
Companies that cannot offer higher salaries
Businesses may be forced to close due to insufficient manpower.
This will lead to a chain reaction.
When the treatment of private enterprises rises to a certain level
The job of a civil servant is no longer as attractive as it used to be.
Many people no longer aspire to be civil servants.
Instead, they will switch to working for a private company.
This has also led to a shortage of civil servants.
Faced with so many labor shortages
Currently, companies are hiring foreign migrant workers to fill manpower gaps.
But in reality, migrant workers can only serve as a short-term solution.
It cannot be used as a long-term solution.
Because even if we can now bring in migrant workers from Southeast Asia
Southeast Asia's economy will also grow in five or ten years.
The salary gap will gradually narrow.
Salaries offered by Taiwanese employers are no longer as attractive.
Migrant workers will still go to places with higher wages.
This would not be a stable source of labor.
Since that's the case
Why don't local businesses raise salaries to retain local employees?
Because capitalists only want to bring in cheap foreign migrant workers.
Instead of thinking about the real root of the problem
all in all
Our convenient life now
In reality, it all depends on having enough labor.
However, this convenience is unlikely to last in the future.
The consequences of this are
Because they can't buy labor and services.
In the future, everyone will have to spend more time
Maintaining their original lifestyle
Therefore, there isn't much time to spend on work.
So even if you are a wealthy upper-middle class person in the future
They may also not receive services due to labor shortages.
In the future world, money will no longer be the only power.
You can buy services by paying money
If labor shortages are an inevitable trend
So how should society respond?
If the labor shortage problem stems from population structure
The solution wouldn't be as simple as getting more people to work.
A structured approach is necessary.
Author's estimate
There may be four types of development in capitalism in the future.
The first type of development is
Businesses must reduce shoddy work.
Provide more worker benefits
The demand for labor in many workplaces today
It's completely unnecessary.
Labor shortages can prompt companies to start reflecting.
Which work items are simply redundant?
That is, the bullshit job we talked about before.
It wouldn't make any difference even if it disappeared.
The author conducted a "Survey on Redundant Business Operations" of many companies.
The surveys were conducted separately on three groups of people: bosses, supervisors, and employees.
See what they each consider redundant.
turn out
These three different groups of people surprisingly agreed on the same thing.
Several tasks are considered extremely tedious.
The first reason is that the system is outdated.
Businesses that have to be completed on paper
Many companies are unwilling to update their systems.
This forces employees to fill out paper forms in a very cumbersome way.
The second type is service that demands excessive quality.
Being overly concerned with every little detail
This leads to an increase in workload.
The third type of bullshit job is
Many things I feel are unnecessary
However, the higher-ups felt it was necessary.
This leads to the need for additional work.
The fourth type is
There is clearly a simpler way
But the company uses a more cumbersome and time-consuming method to do things.
The last one
It was done to help other employees clean up the mess.
If the other employees didn't mess it up
There simply won't be any extra work.
From this survey, we can see that
This bullshit job isn't just employees complaining.
Instead, it was a consensus among bosses, supervisors, and employees.
The company's work style is sometimes "redundant".
The author then conducted further investigations.
Ultimately, the boss, the supervisor, and the employee
What percentage of the company's work do you think is wasted on redundancy?
turn out
The boss thinks it's 16%.
The supervisor believes that 21.7%
Employees felt that 14.9% of the work was tedious.
Interesting
The percentage of employees who felt their work was tedious was actually relatively low.
This may be because
Most of the tasks are delegated to employees.
The employees were all extremely busy.
It becomes impossible to distinguish which things are redundant.
Instead, the management class doesn't do the work on the front lines.
There is more likely to be extra free time
That's when you realize that some things are very "easy".
If we average these three sets of numbers
This means that everyone in the company believes that 15-16% of the work is unnecessary.
If we calculate based on a 40-hour work week
That means spending 6-7 hours a week doing meaningless work.
That took almost a whole day.
Faced with labor shortages and manpower shortages
Companies are spending so much time on redundancy.
This in itself is a waste and a squandering of labor.
Therefore, the author believes
Capitalism must eliminate unnecessary work.
This is not a moral requirement
Rather, it is an inevitable trend under the shrinking labor market.
What's even more interesting is
The author's team not only investigated companies
Consumer opinions were also surveyed.
Ask them, "Do you feel that the company's services have too many unnecessary aspects?"
The result showed that a staggering 38% of the public agreed with this view.
If you ask people whether convenience stores need to operate 24 hours a day...
Only 30% of people think it's necessary, while a whopping 68% think it's unnecessary.
Therefore, companies should ask themselves...
In the current labor shortage situation
Should we still waste our valuable manpower on stores that are open 24 hours a day?
If Taiwan could abolish the 24-hour business system
More than just improvements in labor conditions
It is also a necessary measure to address labor shortages.
Entering an era of severe labor shortages
Storytelling services may become increasingly rare in the future.
Want to read more books
But what if there are no storytelling programs?
Then try this Himalaya audiobook app.
Himalaya audiobooks contain up to 150,000 audiobooks.
At least one bestselling book will be updated every week.
Since I started using Himalaya audiobooks
You can listen to an entire book while walking to work every day.
I've already listened to Chizuko Ueno's "Feminism from Zero".
Jung's Autobiography
There's also "Read a Little Schopenhauer Every Day".
In today's era of severe labor shortages
Make use of spare time each day
You can still listen to an entire book properly.
Join now and enjoy a free trial of Himalaya membership.
Enjoy wireless access to tens of thousands of bestselling audiobooks and online courses.
For more information, please click the link in the information bar below the video.
The second social transformation brought about by the lack of unions is
Businesses must leverage the power of machines and AI to fill labor shortages.
Many people worry that
Wouldn't that lead to unemployment for humans?
The author points out
Automation is not about introducing AI into human work.
Instead, let AI do things that don't necessarily require human intervention.
Only then can humans focus on things that must be done by humans.
The company saves on labor costs by using AI
It can be used to help workers get a raise
Or make employees do easier work.
In this way
Workers will also be more willing to stay in the company.
Only then can the labor shortage problem be alleviated.
For example, Kajima Corporation in Japan has outsourced 50% of its work to robots.
Reduce the workload of construction workers
This allowed the company to survive the labor shortage crisis.
Or the Japanese supermarket chain Kasumi
Introducing an automated checkout system
Customers only need to download the app on their mobile phones
You can scan to pay.
This automation can not only reduce labor...
It can also help relieve the stress of convenience store employees.
Because being a cashier is actually a very high-pressure job.
I often have to deal with many inexplicable and difficult customers.
Kasumi Supermarket Discovery
Just automating the checkout process
This can greatly reduce employee stress.
In today's era of labor shortages
Every industry must consider
What should humanity do?
What are some tasks that machines shouldn't do?
For example, convenience stores like 7-Eleven and FamilyMart
If all are changed to automatic checkout
Consumers can check out at their own checkout during late-night hours.
This would allow the cancellation of night shifts.
Some people might think
This is something only a few conscientious companies would do.
Many companies are simply looking to capitalize on the AI ​​craze to make more money.
It did not aim to reduce the burden on workers.
The author believes
AI automation is driving the trend
Actually, it's a good time to eliminate unscrupulous businesses.
Because the labor shortage reflects
The labor market has changed
Businesses must change accordingly
Begin to cherish human resources
If companies benefit from AI
They continue to exploit workers, with long working hours and low wages.
The result is that workers can resign.
This will continue to cause businesses to suffer from labor shortages and be unable to find workers.
in other words
In today's era of labor shortages
The advantage has actually shifted to the labor force.
As long as the company does not change its form of exploitation
Workers can refuse to work for these companies.
Instead, apply to companies that are willing to transform their business models.
So in the long run
Companies that treat their employees well will prevail.
Those exploitative companies will gradually be eliminated by the market.
Since capitalism likes to emphasize market competition
Let these companies compete.
The competitiveness of future enterprises
It means understanding how to use AI to value human resources and provide better benefits to employees.
Uncompetitive companies are destined to be eliminated.
This is in line with the promises of capitalism.
Capitalism drives the development of productive forces and technological innovation.
Bringing more benefits to mankind
However, this transformation also has limitations.
Because not all industries can be automated.
The author distinguished between them.
Industries that are easy to automate and industries that are not easy to automate
Manufacturing, transportation, and administrative processes are relatively easy to automate.
However, healthcare, construction, and the food service industries are less prone to automation.
For these industries that are not easily automated
So how should we deal with the labor shortage problem?
The third social transformation under labor shortage
The author refers to these as "workish acts".
It means activities outside of work.
But at the same time, it can help others.
The author specifically emphasizes that this is different from volunteer activities.
Everyone has hobbies and interests outside of work.
These interests can actually be a form of labor.
It's just that you're not doing it for any particular company.
It's simply about doing what you like after get off work.
But at the same time, it also provides some services to society.
In fact, the work of YouTubers is somewhat similar to a job activity.
If you're not a full-time YouTuber
It was just for fun.
So you also provide video and entertainment services to society.
The author gives an example
A Japanese non-profit organization has created a mobile game app.
Let citizens find out about the city's dilapidated infrastructure themselves.
You can earn points by taking and uploading photos.
It is generally believed that inspecting old facilities is the responsibility of government agencies.
However, during periods of labor shortage, when manpower is limited...
This game asks citizens to help find the places that need repair.
This effectively saves the government a lot of manpower.
This not only alleviated the labor shortage problem
It also gives citizens a sense of participation.
Feeling the sense of "protecting one's own town".
Citizens spontaneously came to maintain the infrastructure.
Some people even went so far as to inspect roadside drain covers.
Instead, she started walking to work.
If the same amount of money is used to hire employees
It might be difficult to find someone to inspect the roads.
But using the same amount of money on this social experiment
Instead, it encouraged citizens to voluntarily go for checkups during their free time.
To make many people willing to invest
This experiment makes people think...
Many things seem to become unpleasant once they become work.
It's actually more enjoyable to do it outside of work hours.
Another successful example from Japan is the "jogging patrol."
Because of labor shortages, it is becoming increasingly difficult to hire community security guards.
However, numerous child abduction cases have been reported throughout Japan.
Or women being harassed when they go out alone.
Therefore, the citizens of Fukuoka City, Japan
So they launched the PATORUN movement.
Patrol while jogging
Participants will also receive some compensation.
Many people actually have a regular jogging habit.
So it doesn't feel like I'm doing an extra job.
On the contrary, it is a win-win situation.
While jogging, you can also contribute to the community.
You can also make friends with other joggers.
Reduce loneliness among many adults
If the entire town participates in jogging patrols
In fact, it can improve the safety of the entire community.
But if everyone just stays home and scrolls through their phones...
Treating community safety as the job of security police
When there is a labor shortage, the safety of the entire community becomes a concern.
This type of work activity offers us a different social imagination.
The labor shortage problem cannot be simply left to the government and businesses to solve.
Instead, citizens themselves can also take action.
Research statistics show that 25% of people in Japan are already participating in this type of work activity.
That translates to approximately 19.6 million people.
These people did not come with the mindset of "society is short of workers, so I want to volunteer."
Instead, I approached it with the mindset of leisure and entertainment, and to meet more people.
The author predicts that this type of work activity may become more prevalent in future generations.
Because future generations will no longer have the same attitude towards work.
I have a mindset of sacrificing and dedicating myself to the company.
Instead, I want to spend my time on things outside of work.
Because the development of capitalism has created far too many worthless jobs.
Our work cannot contribute to society
Therefore, we should change our mindset and stop thinking that work can help others.
Instead, we should think about how to help others and contribute to society outside of work.
If a company wants to contribute to society
The best approach is to give employees more time to participate in work-related activities.
Instead of keeping employees busy with various miscellaneous tasks even after get off work hours.
The author even boldly predicts that the new ideas of the next generation will be...
Just working at a company doesn't really count as participating in social activities.
Because during working hours, you're essentially serving the capitalists.
Instead of serving society
It is precisely after finishing work that people can truly participate in society.
Finally, the author proposes a fourth transformation strategy to address labor shortages.
It's a "small-scale event for senior citizens".
Due to the trend of declining birthrate
The elderly population will definitely increase, while the young population will decrease.
The total population of Taiwan in 2025 is estimated to be approximately 23.29 million.
Of these, over 4.67 million people are aged 65 or older, accounting for approximately 20.06%.
It has met the World Health Organization's definition of a super-aged society.
Therefore, the labor shortage problem will inevitably rely on the elderly population.
But these people are all retired, and their labor force is not as strong as that of the young adult population.
Furthermore, older adults often encounter age discrimination when returning to the workforce.
Therefore, the author says that the point is not to make the elderly continue working.
Instead, they are asked to perform small activities to provide "micro-labor".
For example, elderly people in Japan help direct traffic during school dismissal time.
This kind of work should originally be done by school teachers and security guards.
However, given the current labor shortage on campus
This kind of work will become less and less popular.
Helping direct traffic during break time may seem like a small thing.
But it actually alleviated the problem of the severe labor shortage.
Everyone can think back to their elementary school days.
Do elderly people often help clean up the area around the school?
Each of us has spent six years in elementary school.
In fact, they all unconsciously benefit from the "micro-labor" of many elderly people.
If we consider these "micro-labor" efforts as part of economic activity...
The elderly actually contribute a significant amount to GDP.
Without them, the school might have had to hire someone else to clean.
This will lead to a labor shortage.
Participating in this kind of "micro-labor" can actually be beneficial for senior citizens.
Because after retirement, many elderly people no longer need to work.
Life suddenly lost its focus and became very boring.
Loneliness in the elderly can also affect their physical and mental health.
Therefore, many people return to the workforce after retirement.
Because I really don't know what to do after retirement.
However, if there are regular activities, contributing a little "micro-labor" to society is possible.
Their daily routines will also be more regular and rhythmic.
In today's video, we introduced four major transformation strategies to address the labor shortage problem.
Eliminate redundancy and rubbish.
Machine automation
Work-related activities
There's also the "minor labor" of the elderly.
However, the author eventually admitted...
These solutions only postpone the problem until around 2030.
The next period, from 2030 to 2040, will be a "ten-year probation period".
We must use these ten years to think about more fundamental structural reforms.
That is, to completely transform the structure of capitalism.
Only in this way can society achieve sustainable development despite the problems of labor shortages and declining birth rates.
To avoid an industrial collapse
What would a more fundamental structural reform look like?
The author makes several bold predictions here.
The first is the transformation of collective values.
philosopher Hannah Oran believed
There are actually three types of human activities.
Labor, work and action
Labor is for the purpose of satisfying the metabolism of organisms.
Humans engage in labor to earn money in order to survive.
But work is different from labor.
It transcends individual life.
Because the products created by humans can be passed on to the next generation.
Action is an activity that relates to others.
Shaping society together with others
In contemporary capitalist society
Everyone places too much emphasis on labor and neglects action.
However, given the current limited labor supply...
The amount of labor has reached a point where it is difficult to increase further.
It will inevitably decrease in the future.
Instead
People should spend more time and energy on things outside of work.
That is, to replace labor with action.
For example, engaging in work-related activities or minimal labor.
To provide services needed by society
Instead of working hours
Next, the author predicts...
The line between consumption and labor will become increasingly blurred in the future.
Consumers will also become laborers
For example, what if restaurants in the future all used food delivery robots?
After the customer orders
The robot can only be delivered to the table.
Next, the guests will need to take their meals down themselves.
Therefore, consumers also put in some effort when making purchases.
Labor will be transferred from the original responsibility of employees.
Turning into machines to collaborate with consumers to complete tasks
This will also force consumers to stop being difficult or demanding.
Because if there are too many difficult customers, employees won't want to work.
The shop owner can't find enough staff.
Finally, they will close the door.
Therefore, if consumers do not want to have no stores to visit...
Difficult customer behavior must be stopped.
The second bold prediction is
Workers will become God
The old ideas were
The person who pays is the boss; the customer is king.
But in a society with labor shortages
The laborers will become God.
Workers who don't want to work
Even if consumers have money, they may not be able to buy services.
Long queues could only be formed outside the store.
If laborers become God
Then the government should provide more benefits to workers.
For example, reducing labor taxes.
Tax less on workers
Workers won't feel that they are working hard.
All the money was handed over to the state.
That's why they're more willing to continue contributing their labor during times of labor shortage.
We must respond to this shift in values
The government should regard labor as the most valuable resource in society.
Labor laws can no longer prioritize the interests of employers.
The interests of workers should be prioritized.
The government should also use various methods to incentivize "work-related activities".
The last bold prediction is
Work in the future will become more interesting and enjoyable.
Because if companies don't make work interesting...
Not making workers happy
There is no way to attract people to work.
So how do we make workers happy?
It's very simple.
Businesses should eliminate those unnecessary and ridiculous tasks.
Because society no longer has the resources to waste labor.
Next, we must reduce working hours.
Even implementing a three-day weekend
This gives the workers an extra day.
You can do similar work activities
Assisting with social operations in one's spare time
Even if we can't reduce working hours
At the very least, do not prevent employees from engaging in other activities after get off work.
Don't make employees have to be on call 24 hours a day after get off work.
Finally, the most practical solution is, of course, to increase salaries.
Can a company increase wages, shorten working hours, and make workers happier?
This is the key to whether a company can operate sustainably.
This is also a necessary transformation to prepare for the future era of massive labor shortages.