I'm Eric Cline. I'm an archaeologist and an 
ancient historian. I'm also the author of 1177 BC,  
and its sequel, After 1177 BC. The period that 
we're discussing today is incredibly important  
in the history of humankind. It's the late Bronze 
Age, in particular, which goes from about 1700 to  
1200 BCE, or BC, if you prefer. This was a time 
where people were basically globalized around  
the Mediterranean in a way that is not frequently 
seen. And so what happened to them back then may  
have implications for us today. So it turns out 
to be a much more important period to study than  
one might expect, even though it's more than 
3,000 years ago. [MUSIC PLAYING] In part one,  
we're going to take a look at the civilizations 
as they existed, and what happened, what occurred,  
to make them all collapse one after another 
in one set of decades. In the second part,  
we'll take a look at whether or not that could 
have been avoided, what led up to it, what do you  
do after you've collapsed, how resilient are you, 
and whether it has any implications, for us today?  
Most of the people that I talk to about this 
period, and I will go on and on and on about  
it at dinner parties and such, they say, I've 
never heard of this period, and I say, actually,  
you have. This is the New Kingdom period of Egypt. 
So I will ask them, have you heard of Hatshepsut,  
the famous female pharaoh? And they'll frequently 
say, yes. I'll say, have you heard of Akhenaten,  
the heretic pharaoh, who might have started 
monotheism? And they might say, yes. And then I'll  
go out in the lim and say, well, I bet you haven't 
heard of King Tut. And they're like, of course,  
I've heard of King Tut. I'm like, fine, that's the 
exact period that we're talking about here. So you  
see, you already do know this period. It's the 
second half of the second millennium BC. It's the  
New Kingdom period of Egypt. It's the time of King 
Tut and Akhenaten and all those other pharaohs. So  
this is a period that is actually more familiar to 
people. They just don't realize that they know it.  
The late Bronze Age covers about 500 years, 1700 
to 1200 BC. And for most of that, life was pretty  
good, especially in the 14th and 13th centuries 
BC, that is in the time before the collapse. Now,  
in those centuries, it was very globalized. It 
was internationalized across the Mediterranean  
and into the ancient Near East. So everyone was 
in contact with everybody else. This is the period  
when I say the ancient G8 was in place. And by 
the G8, in that case, I mean over in Greece,  
you had the Mycenaeans and the Minoans, right? 
Think Trojan War. In what is now Turkey,  
ancient Anatolia, you had the Hittites. Over in 
Mesopotamia, the land between the two rivers,  
modern day Iraq, basically, you had 
Assyria and Babylonia. Then elsewhere,  
you had Cypriot Sensai-Price Egyptians and Egypt 
Canaanites in Canaan. So overall, these people are  
in direct or indirect contact with each other on 
almost daily basis. The thing is, if they're not  
in direct contact with somebody, like Mycenaeans 
and Assyrians, who are quite far apart, they will  
be in contact with a common person. So indirect is 
not even that indirect. In fact, in what they had,  
which we call the small world network, if you are 
only three hops from anybody else at the most,  
or maybe less than three hops, like two hops for 
the Mycenaeans to the Hittites to the Assyrians,  
that's a small world network. And in the time 
period that we're talking about, that's what  
we've got. A colleague of mine, Susan Sheridan 
at University of Sheffield, has talked about this  
being a globalized Mediterranean. Now, why do we 
care about that? Because there aren't that many  
periods in human history where we've had such a 
small world network in place anywhere. Us today,  
obviously, yes, we've got a small world network 
all around the globe. Then back then, they had  
a small world network across the Mediterranean 
and into the Near East as well. And that's why  
I would argue that what happened to them might 
be a little bit more relevant to us today than  
one might think, because they are actually 
closer to us than one might think. In terms  
of commercial contacts, diplomatic contacts, and 
so on, they're more like us than one might expect,  
just walking around outside. In my book, what 
I was focusing on is the Mediterranean and the  
ancient Near East. In part, because that's 
my specialty. That's what I know the best.  
It's also because they were not necessarily 
in contact with areas of the world that were  
further away. So for example, there may have been 
some contacts with India, with the Indus Valley,  
but they weren't that frequent. And as far as 
we can tell, they're not in contact with places  
like China. There are some indications, and I 
would give a caveat here. The wonderful thing  
about archeology is that what people find tomorrow 
could completely change our understanding. So now,  
for instance, we think that there were maybe more 
contacts with Southeast Asia in the Iron Age after  
the collapse than we had thought before. So this 
is always changing. However, I limited myself to  
this area, basically from Italy on the West to 
Iran and Iraq on the East, if you want to put  
it that way, and from modern day Turkey down 
to Egypt. Again, that's my focus of specialty,  
but that is also the area in which this little 
globalized small world network functioned.  
None of the great civilizations, none of the 
G8, were self-sufficient at that time, and it's  
important to realize that. They each needed each 
other. So for instance, Egypt was the only place  
really that could supply gold to everybody else, 
because it was in control of the mines, Dana,  
Nubia and Sudan. Greece, on the other hand, was 
one of the areas that could provide the silver.  
Copper came from Cyprus. The tin, the tin's a bit 
of a problem. It comes from a variety of places,  
including maybe Cornwall, up in England, but 
the vast majority came over from Afghanistan,  
the Badakhshan region in particular. It's the 
same area where Lapis Lazuli comes from. And  
so these raw metals would travel hundreds of 
miles along the trade networks, and each of  
the different civilizations needed them. So they 
are trading with each other. Yes, it's commercial,  
but it's also the lifeblood, because we're in 
the Bronze Age here to make bronze. You need 90%  
copper and 10% tin. I mean, you can use arsenic if 
you want to, but you're not gonna live very long.  
Much better to use tin. What happens if the trade 
routes are cut and you can't get the tin anymore,  
which means you can't make your bronze, which 
means you're in real trouble. So they are trading  
for the raw materials. They're also trading for, I 
would say, commercial goods, but ones that you can  
eat and drink. So they're trading olive oil. 
They're trading wine. They're trading grain.  
And they're sending it around to each other. 
It might be a bit like Coles Tourneux Castle,  
but it's more like different wines from around the 
world, each have their own flavor. Same thing back  
then. Now, they're also trading and buying and 
selling and all of that actual objects. We have  
a couple of the written texts, for example, that 
talk about leather shoes being sent from Crete all  
the way to Babylon, to King Hammurabi, the famous 
King Hammurabi who wrote his law code, which has  
an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth in it. And 
those leather shoes made it all the way to him,  
but we're told he returned them. We're not told 
why he returned them, and I often wonder if they  
were too small or too last millennium or something 
like that, but we know that the actual objects are  
coming, along with the raw materials and the 
raw supplies. We know they're trading things  
like solid gold daggers inlaid with Lapis lazuli. 
These are obviously things that the kings are  
giving each other. So we have what we call gift 
giving at the highest elite levels. And then we've  
got commercial mercantile stuff at slightly lower 
levels. So we've got all kinds of things going on,  
but the end result is that they needed each other. 
They really did, they could not survive without  
each other. And so this globalized network is what 
rose them up to the highest levels, but it is then  
also what brought them crashing down at the end 
when all of that was cut. Now, along with all the  
commercial activities, and there is diplomatic, 
but diplomatic also involves marital connections  
because when the great kings, the G8, when they 
sign treaties with each other, when they made  
diplomatic advances, frequently they would marry 
each other's daughters to cement the treaties. So  
we know, for instance, that Amenhotep III and 
Akhenaten, the two pharaohs of Egypt in the  
14th century BC, they each had multiple wives in 
their harems who were the daughters of the other  
kings. So we know that there are three Mitannian 
princesses that are in Egypt in the harems. We  
know that there are Babylonian princesses in the 
Egyptian hare. The one thing that's interesting  
is it was not reciprocal. The Egyptians did 
not send their princesses to the others. No,  
no, no. Those were sent to them, but it was not 
the other way around. But even so, exchanging  
one princess one way was enough to cement a 
new diplomatic treaty. And we know because of  
the tablets, especially including one set at the 
site of Amarna, which in Egypt was Akhenaten's  
capital city. We've got the archive there of his 
records and his father, Amenhotep III, writing to  
these kings. And we can see whenever there's a 
new king over in Mitanni, which is in Syria or  
a new king in Babylonia, they had to renegotiate 
the treaties with the Egyptian pharaohs and with  
those renegotiations came the new marriages. So 
we're talking diplomatic, commercial, marital,  
you know, it's not so different from today. 
We also need to give a definition basically  
of what we mean when we say everything collapsed. 
And I would argue that the world as they knew it  
back then did collapse after just after the year 
1200, like 1177 BC. What collapsed was the network  
that was linking them all, this globalized small 
world network where they had commercial contacts  
and diplomatic contacts and all of that. That 
breaks apart, that collapses. And it's gonna  
take up to 400 years to get it back again. Now 
each of the individual societies that were part  
of that network, they were each influenced and 
some collapsed completely, others dealt with  
it. And that's where we get into kind of a gray 
area because some of my colleagues say, "Look,  
you're over exaggerating, this is clickbait. It's 
not collapse, it's transformation." And I'm like,  
well, a divine transformation for me. And so 
we go round and round and round about this, but  
basically the way I look at it is the world that 
they had had in place in the 14th century and the  
13th century BC, that world goes away. And it goes 
away within just a couple of decades in the early  
12th century BC. Life as they knew it basically 
changed. Now that doesn't mean the farmer out in  
the Hinterland of Anatolia knew that on Monday 
he was part of this and on Tuesday he wasn't,  
it's nothing like that, but it does mean that the 
international contacts, the dynastic marriages,  
they come basically to a screeching halt. And I 
frequently say that the comparison is to something  
like the fall of the Roman Empire, right? It was 
catastrophic for its day. Now there was about 1500  
years between the collapse of the late Bronze Age 
and the fall of the Roman Empire. And it's been  
about another 1500 years since the Roman Empire 
fell, at least the Western half. And so I'm not  
saying that we're necessarily do for another 
collapse, but history does rhyme even if it  
doesn't repeat. So I'm a little wary that it might 
be, we might be do for it anyway. So it's all a  
matter of academic jargon to a certain degree. 
What do you mean by collapse? What do you mean by  
transformation? And I concluded after writing both 
books that it is yes, it's both a collapse and a  
transformation. It depends where you are and when 
you are and at whom you are looking. The thing  
that's changed over the last couple of decades is 
that the old explanation that people put forward  
for the collapse was too simple. It was almost 
simplistic, if you will. It was what we would  
now call monocausal. They were looking at one 
thing. Was it invaders? Was it this? Was it that?  
But they focused on one thing and one thing only 
depending on which scholar you talk to. Nowadays,  
we think it's a combination. It would be what I 
would call polycausal that it takes more than one  
thing to bring down this whole system. You 
need two of the explanations, three, four,  
something like that happening either all at once 
or in rapid succession. So you don't have time  
to recover from one catastrophe before the next 
one hits. And I think that makes a lot more sense  
than just saying, oh, the sea peoples did it or 
oh, there was a drought. How about if there were  
migrations? Because of a drought and so on. So 
that's kind of what has changed over the last  
couple of decades. And in part, it's because we 
have a lot more information now. We have a lot  
more data from a lot more sources and they're all 
pointing in various different directions which if  
you look at it at a hole, you go, okay, that's 
what's happening. It's a multitude of causes and  
that caused a domino effect for one thing and 
it also caused an exaggeration, where one thing  
was made much worse because of the next. So our 
thinking has changed in part because of the new  
data that we're getting. When I was first learning 
about all this, when I was in college and then in  
graduate school, I was basically taught that the 
collapse was caused by the sea peoples, this group  
that the Egyptians had mentioned that came not 
once but twice in the years 1207 and 1177 BC.  
The Egyptians, Merneptah and Ramses III were the 
two pharaohs 30 years apart. They both said that  
Egypt had been attacked by a coalition of invaders 
and they give us their names. It's us that calls  
them the sea peoples. It comes from a French 
Egyptologist that was studying these originally.  
But the Egyptians actually give us the names and 
we know that there are nine different separate  
groups that come sweeping across the Mediterranean 
and wind up attacking Egypt. So I was always told  
that these groups which are the Shardana, the 
Shekelesh, the Weshesh, the Eques, the Peleset,  
you know, these names that most people have 
never heard of, that they were the ones that were  
responsible for attacking all the G8 and bringing 
them down one by one, if you will. Now out of all  
those sea peoples, there's really only one group 
that we could identify. We've played around with  
the other ones. I mean, Shirdon or Chardana 
sounds a lot like Sardinia. So it may be that  
that's where they came from. The Shekalesh, that 
sounds a lot like Sicily. So maybe they came from  
there. But the earliest Egyptologists actually 
thought that that's where they went after they  
were defeated by the Egyptians and that they then 
gave their names to those islands. So we've flip  
flopped over the years. Personally, I think the 
sea peoples come from the Western Mediterranean  
and sweep across the Aegean and wind up attacking 
Egypt. But we still have the problem of, you know,  
who are they? Out of all the groups, the only 
one that we think we've really identified is the  
group called the Peleset. And the Peleset are the 
Philistines. Now the Philistines are mentioned in  
the Bible. We already know them archeologically. 
It really looks like they are Mycenaeans from  
Greece who have fled Greece and come over to the 
Eastern Mediterranean because Philistine pottery  
looks like degenerate Mycenaean. Meaning not that 
it's terrible, but it's Mycenaean pottery as if  
it were made in Greece, but it's made with clay 
that's local to Cyprus, Rhodes, the Levant. So it  
looks like the Mycenaeans come across. Now Ramses 
and Merneptah both say that they defeated the sea  
peoples. And in fact, Ramses III says, "I settled 
them in strongholds bound in my name." Meaning he  
settled the defeated sea peoples in Egypt and 
in the region of southern Canaan, which the  
Egyptians controlled at that time. So I think we 
know where they went, even if we don't quite know  
where they came from. If I had like a million 
dollars, I would go looking for the origins of  
the sea peoples and try and settle that once and 
for all. But the one thing that we're quite sure,  
or at least I'm quite sure of now, is they were 
not single-handedly responsible for the collapse.  
In fact, I kind of agree with my colleagues who 
have suggested that they were as much victims as  
they were oppressors, and that they're more 
like a symptom of what's happening than they  
were the cause of it. I think there were a lot 
of other things involved, and I think the picture  
was a lot more complicated than I was first 
taught when I was an undergraduate in college.  
In some ways, the sea peoples are one of history's 
great escape goats. I mean, I think they're blamed  
for something they didn't really do. And indeed, 
I used to use the sea peoples to scare my kids  
at night to make them go to bed. You know, 
time for bed, and if you don't go to bed,  
the sea peoples are gonna get you. I mean, I think 
they're kind of the bogeyman of antiquity and kind  
of unfairly blamed. I think some of the other 
explanations that people have now put forward,  
like drought and famine and all that, might 
have contributed to why the sea peoples were  
migrating in the first place. And I actually 
think a good parallel would be something like  
the dust ball in the 1930s in the United States, 
where the people were leaving Oklahoma and going  
to Texas and California to get a better life. Same 
thing, you could look at some of the migrants and  
the refugees today, the people fleeing from the 
Syrian civil war, for example, the people leaving  
and trying to get up into Europe for a new and 
better life. I mean, we're seeing some of the  
same things today. So I think that's really 
what the might, but the sea peoples were. They  
were migrants in search of a better life. If the 
sea peoples are not to blame for the collapse,  
then what is or what was? There have been 
a number of other suggestions that scholars  
have made over the years. And in my first book in 
1177 BC, I went through the various suggestions,  
looking at the pros and cons for each. And in the 
end, I thought the answer was yes. It's all of the  
above. It's a perfect storm. It is, you know, all 
everything, you name it, everything everywhere,  
all at once. And it would have been hard to avoid. 
So I looked at what my predecessors had suggested  
and thought that there was merit to almost 
every one of them, but not on their own. You  
had to bring them all together into this series 
of unfortunate events, as Lemony Snicket once  
said. One of the possibilities is that there 
was a drought back then. This is not a new  
suggestion. It was actually made back in the 1960s 
by Reese Carpenter, who was a professor at Bryn  
Mawr College. He suggested that the Mycenaeans on 
mainland Greece, that their civilization had come  
to an end because of a drought. But he didn't 
have any hard data to back his suggestion up.  
It remained a hypothesis. We now have the data 
that he didn't have. And we have it not just for  
mainland Greece, but we have it for an entire area 
stretching from Italy over to Iran today. So the  
evidence that we've got for drought, and by the 
way, it's not just a drought, it's a mega drought.  
It's 150 years at the minimum and 300 years at 
the maximum. So say from 1200 BC or 1250 BC down  
to 900 or 850 BC, I mean, it's a long, long, long 
time. Now, we find evidence for it all over the  
place. We find it in caves where the stalagmites 
stopped growing because they ran out of water.  
We find it in dried up lakes, dried up lagoons, 
dried up riverbeds, where when you take samples  
and you look at the pollen under a microscope, 
you can see that we get more arid plants,  
that it becomes a much harsher environment. If 
you look at the sediments at the bottom of lakes  
that still exist in Turkey, for example, you can 
see this as well. So it's not like we have data  
from one place and one type of source. We have 
it from a multitude of places. If you look at  
a map where we have scientific evidence of this 
mega drought at the end of the late Bronze Age,  
you've just got, it's peppered with red dots where 
we've got all of this information. So I would say  
it's beyond a doubt now. You cannot call it into 
question. There was a drought back then. It lasted  
for at least 150 and maybe 300 years. And that 
would have impacted pretty much anybody back  
then because, well, frankly, society, you can't 
survive. A drought that lasts that long. I mean,  
we have trouble surviving a drought today that 
lasts 10 years. So imagine one that's 10 times  
that or so. Anyway, so I think drought makes sense 
that that was one of the big factors at that time.  
And it may have actually driven some of the other 
factors as well. If you've got drought, you've  
probably also got famine coming right on its heels 
because if you have a lack of rain, if you have  
a lack of all your major resources and all that, 
people are gonna start starving. And it looks like  
that's what happened during the late Bronze Age 
collapse as well. Now, it can be actually pretty  
hard to find evidence of famine, unless like you 
find a mass grave, which we haven't found by the  
way. But if they write about it, if they write 
about it in their text, then you can be pretty  
sure that there was famine. And we have that now, 
especially in recent years. There have been some  
texts that were found at the site of Ugarit, which 
is up on the north coast of what is now Syria. And  
the site of Ugarit were very important, Entropo, 
very important international port at that time.  
And there have been tablets that have been 
published fairly recently, like in 2016 in French.  
And then a couple of years later in English, in 
which they say there is famine in our city, please  
send us help. I mean, they come right out and 
say it. Now, we had others before that as well.  
We know up in Anatolia, for example, where the 
Hittites were. There are also tablets that talk  
about famine, starting as early as about 1250 
BC. So a little bit earlier than we might have  
suspected. And they are writing and saying things 
like, famine is here in my lands. It's a matter  
of life and death. Please send grain. And they're 
asking people like the Egyptians to send relief.  
And in fact, we know from other texts that the 
Egyptians did send grain and dried fish and other  
things like that to help out the people in Ugarit 
and Anatolia and so on. So we definitely know that  
there is famine at that time. And it obviously 
comes hard on the heels of the drought. Now,  
if we pull the sea peoples back in again, I think 
this then explains why they might have started  
migrating in the first place. If they do come from 
the Western Mediterranean, like I think Sicily,  
Sardinia, Italy, there is now evidence that there 
is a drought in Northern Italy as well, where the  
Terramare culture was. And there's evidence for 
people leaving at that time in mass numbers. So it  
may be that that's where we should be looking for 
the sea peoples coming from and that they started  
their migrations because they were starving and 
there was a drought in their lands. In which case  
though, I mean, as the old saying goes out of the 
frying pan and into the fire, because the Eastern  
Mediterranean had a drought as well. I mean, it 
stretched all across the Mediterranean, but they  
couldn't have known that, at least not easily at 
that time. So they start migrating and they get to  
a place where it's just as bad, but there are also 
people already living there. So they are attacking  
at the same time as assimilating, they're just 
trying to get a new life for themselves. And I  
think that's what we see when they attack 
Egypt. But we also know from other tablets  
that they attack elsewhere. So we have to add 
other things in here as well. But for right now,  
I would say we've got drought equals famine, and 
then maybe that's gonna lead into migration and  
other things as well. Now it used to be that the 
only evidence we had for migrations or invasions,  
if you will, which is probably a better way 
to put it, is the evidence from the Egyptians,  
the inscriptions that Merneptah and Ramses, the 
third left us from 1207 and 1177. But now we've  
got other evidence as well, the same archives 
at Ugarit on the north coast of Syria that gave  
us the tablets talking about famine. They also 
mentioned invaders. Some of them have been known  
for quite a while. There's a fairly famous tablet 
that talks about enemies and ships having been  
sighted. And are they gonna come here or not? And 
their messages between the king or the governor on  
Cyprus over to the king of Ugarit. And you can see 
Cyprus on a good day from Ugarit, basically. So we  
knew about these enemy ships, but we didn't know 
who they were. Like it doesn't say the sea peoples  
or anything like that. It just says ships of the 
enemy. Well, the new tablets that have just been  
published from Ugarit also mention ships of the 
enemy, but they also mention that they've made  
landfall. And in fact, one particular text, which 
is written by the king of Ugarit, basically asking  
for reinforcements to be sent. He says, "The 
enemy has landed. "They have overrun one of my  
port cities "and they are now advancing on Ugarit 
itself. "Please send help." Well, we know that  
even if the help was sent, it wasn't enough or 
it was too late because the French archeologist,  
when they excavated Ugarit, starting back in the 
1920s and even continuing until fairly recently,  
they found that Ugarit at that time period 
had been destroyed and had been destroyed  
by humans. There are bodies in the streets, 
there are arrowheads embedded in the walls.  
There is a meter of destruction, like three feet 
deep of destruction in that city. And it was then  
abandoned. It was abandoned for between 400 and 
600 years. People buried hordes of precious metals  
and never came back for them. So that enemy, 
whoever they might have been, not only advanced  
on Ugarit, but destroyed Ugarit. The problem, 
once again, the scribe just says, the enemy,  
it doesn't say the shalim or the Sherden or the 
palescent or the washes. And I, oh, I would love  
to take that scribe and take him out back and say, 
come on. Why didn't you tell us who they were? Why  
did you just say the enemy? But that scribe might 
not have known who they were. Give them a break.  
But we can now say that there were invaders. There 
were invaders from outside. Whether they were sea  
peoples or something else, we can't know for sure, 
but we definitely have invaders at that time.  
There are a lot of destructions around the ancient 
Near East and the Aegean at this time of cities,  
both major and minor. There are discussions as to 
whether there are actually city-wide destructions  
and whether maybe just a cow kicked over a lantern 
like Mrs. O'Leary in Chicago. We're still debating  
exactly how many destructions and how destructive 
they were, if I could use the same word again. But  
the basic feeling is yes, there were invaders, 
there were destructions, but some of the  
destructions might not have been by outsiders. 
They might have been internal. It might have  
been an internal rebellion by the locals rising 
up, precisely because they're starving, because  
there's no water, there's no food, anything like 
that. And there are a couple of instances where  
we can see that. The site of Mycenae on Mainland 
Greece where the famous Lion Gate is, it has been  
suggested that its ultimate demise at this time 
was because of internal rebellion. We can't be  
sure of that, but it is a definite hypothesis. 
Another example might be the site of Hazor in  
ancient Canaan, which is today in modern Israel. 
And at Hazor, where we had two co-directors  
that were excavating and couldn't agree on what 
caused the destruction of the site. One said it  
was Joshua and pointed to the book in the Hebrew 
Bible that talks about Joshua conquering Hazor.  
The other co-director said, now wait a minute, at 
the site, the palaces burnt and the temples were  
burnt, but not the houses of the local people. 
And that looks like an internal rebellion,  
right? Palaces burnt, temples burnt, but not the 
people's houses. You have an invader from outside,  
they're gonna burn absolutely everything. But if 
you have the people's houses still there, doesn't  
that look like an internal rebellion? Well, it 
might. Now again, hard to decide, my point would  
be if the two co-directors can't decide who might 
have destroyed their site, pretty hard for the  
rest of us to decide that as well. But I would put 
this up as an example of maybe internal rebellion.  
So yes, we have destructions, not everywhere, 
but a lot of them. But we can't be sure if it's  
external or internal. We just know the city is 
destroyed. If we see a destruction at a site  
though, it might not be by humans. It could be by 
Mother Nature. I'm talking about earthquakes. Some  
of the sites that we see destroyed at the end of 
the late Bronze Age really seem to be destroyed by  
earthquakes. Now it can be difficult to determine 
if a destruction's by humans or by Mother Nature.  
Sometimes it's obvious. I mean, if you find bodies 
in the streets with arrowheads sticking out of  
them, it's probably humans and not an earthquake. 
But when you find bodies simply buried like under  
walls of collapsed houses, it could actually 
be either one. But if there are some symptoms,  
and we can usually tell when the city is hit 
by an earthquake because we'll have walls that  
are off-kilter, that shouldn't be, we'll have 
keystones slipped in an arch, things like that.  
And in some of the cases, we could say, yeah, 
this is most likely an earthquake rather than  
by humans. And if we take a look at those type 
of sites at the end of the late Bronze Age,  
it really looks like we have what's known as an 
earthquake storm. Now that's the name for it in  
antiquity. If it happens today, it's known 
as an earthquake sequence by seismologists.  
And the general idea is frequently that if you 
have a fault line, like the North Anatolian  
fault line that runs across Turkey, that if you 
have an earthquake and it doesn't release all of  
the pressure, you will have another earthquake 
sometime later nearby. It could be a week later,  
it could be a month later, it could be a year 
later, that will release more of the pressure. And  
if that still doesn't release all of the built-up 
pressure, you will have another earthquake and  
another and another. Basically, the fault line 
will unzip until all the pressure is gone. That  
can take up to 60 years, 60, 60 years. We see that 
today. It's been happening across Turkey since  
like the 1930s. But it also happened in antiquity. 
And it looks like it took place in the Aegean and  
Eastern Mediterranean from about 1225 to 1175 
BC, in other words, spanning the late Bronze Age  
collapse. And so we can see bodies in a number of 
cities. There's a young teenage girl at Mycenae,  
for example, who tried to shelter in the doorway 
of her house. Normally, that's one of the safest  
places to try and shelter from an earthquake. 
But in this case, the whole house collapsed,  
and one of the stones fell and hit her in the 
head, probably killed her instantly. She was found  
with that stone still embedded in her skull. At 
other places, there are other bodies as well. And  
just to give you one more example, at the 
site of Troy, where the Trojan War took place,  
according to Homer, and we have nine cities, one 
on top of another, city number six is destroyed by  
an earthquake, not by humans. There's no bodies 
there, there's no arrowheads, anything like  
that. But the city is destroyed with giant rocks 
thrown around, and everything fallen with walls  
undulating. Pretty obvious, Troy six was destroyed 
by an earthquake. And so we can put that into the  
category as well. Now, if we're trying to kind of 
make a logical succession where we have drought,  
famine, migration, that works for all those, 
but we're do earthquakes fit into that. Well,  
you don't really fit earthquakes into that, they 
just happen, but it turns out that this is a very  
active seismic zone in this entire region. There 
are fault lines off the coast of Greece. There's  
a fault line coming straight up the Rift Valley, 
where you've got the Dead Sea and Lake Tiberias.  
There are fault lines across ancient Anatolia. 
And in fact, if you lay a map that shows all the  
earthquakes that have happened in modern Turkey 
since say the year 1900, and you've got all the  
earthquakes plotted, and you lay that on top of a 
map showing the cities that were either partially  
or totally destroyed at the end of the late Bronze 
Age, there's almost a one-to-one correlation.  
And so I think we have to add in earthquakes as 
one of the other possible stressors, drivers,  
factors that led to the late Bronze Age collapse. 
The other factor we should bring into the equation  
is that of disease. We haven't mentioned this up 
until now, but in terms of like the four horsemen  
of the apocalypse, where you've got drought and 
famine and earthquakes and all that, even today,  
you frequently have disease following on the 
footsteps. And I think we might have had that same  
situation back at the end of the late Bronze Age. 
Certainly we know this from some of the stories  
that have been handed down. For example, Homer 
in "The Iliad" in the first book talks about a  
plague sweeping through the Mycenaean troops that 
are besieging Troy. In the story of the Exodus  
from the Hebrew Bible, we've got the 10 plagues. 
These might be memories, vague memories of what  
actually happened back then, but we do know, 
for example, that there was a plague that hit  
the Hittites earlier, about 150 years before the 
collapse, back in the time of my favorite Hittite  
king, Sufi Lulu-Luma I, who ruled about 1350 BC, 
and we are told by one of his successors that  
he and most of his immediate family died as the 
result of a plague that was brought to Anatolia,  
courtesy of Egyptian prisoners of war, and 
it absolutely decimated the Hittites. Now,  
that's a century and a half before the collapse. 
So we really can't say that that's part and parcel  
of it, but there is an Egyptian pharaoh, Ramses V, 
if I remember correctly, who ruled about 1140 BC,  
and we've got his mummy. And if you look at the 
mummy along the jawline and kind of on the cheek,  
there are pustules. He had smallpox and he 
probably died from it, and we're able to say  
this because we actually have a papyrus, the Turin 
papyrus. It's in a museum in Italy today in Turin,  
and it talks about the fact that Ramses and other 
members of his family died of the plague, which we  
would say is smallpox, and that they were buried 
in the Valley of the Kings, but most unusually, it  
took something like 16 months to bury them, they 
dug brand new tombs for them, and after they put  
the king and his dead relatives in, they dismissed 
the workmen who had dug the tombs, they gave him  
a month off at full pay, and then they closed the 
Valley of the Kings to everyone. It was like maybe  
the world's first quarantine at that time. So we 
do have evidence for plague a little bit after the  
collapse, but the collapse is gonna take most of 
the 12th century BC to fully form, and so somebody  
that dies of smallpox in 1140 is in fact part and 
parcel of the whole collapse. So I think we do  
have to add in disease in addition to everything 
else, earthquakes, migration, famine, drought, you  
name it. I think we've got enough there to justify 
the fact that we've got a poly crisis going  
on, that if you had one thing, you might survive 
it, two things maybe, by three, you're throwing up  
your hands going, enough, we can't take this 
anymore, and boom, everything collapses. One  
of the things that we've got in looking at all 
these multiple causes that might have led to the  
collapse is the fact that we've got, first of all, 
a multiplier effect going on, that is each one has  
got a bigger effect than it might have because 
of the others, but we've also got a domino effect  
going on, that is when one of these goes down or 
is dreadfully impacted, it would have affected the  
others much as today we can set up dominoes to 
all fall in a row. If you've got a supply chain  
shortage to put it in today's terms, if the tin is 
cut off and you can't make copper anymore, that's  
gonna affect pretty much all the civilizations, 
but if you've got something that affects cypress  
and the Cypriots, which is giving everybody the 
copper, then that is gonna have a domino effect  
on everybody else. So even just the news of one 
of them being affected might have had a domino  
effect on one or more of the others. Now, one of 
the questions that we wanted to ask is what would  
it have taken to have brought down this network? 
And so actually after I published 1177 BC,  
I was approached and got together with colleagues 
from the US Army Corps of Engineers and we ran  
scenarios through a computer trying to figure out 
which of the G8 or others in which order would  
it have taken for them to fall to collapse the 
whole network? For instance, if the Mycenaeans  
had gone down, would that have collapsed the whole 
globalized network? If the Minoans had gone down,  
would that have shattered the small world network? 
What did it take? And we know by looking back at  
it that it did collapse, it was shattered, 
but in what order and how important was the  
collapse itself? Can we actually figure out who 
went down first and who went down last? Well,  
it turns out we can try and approximate that. 
We ran a couple of thousand scenarios through a  
computer and came up with two basic scenarios 
that would have resulted in the collapse.  
One is if the Hittites and the Egyptians both 
essentially collapsed at the same time, that  
would have brought down the rest of the network 
or if that city of Ugarit, the international  
port on the coast of North Syria, if that had 
collapsed at the same time as the Hittites,  
that would have been enough to disrupt the entire 
network and bring it down also. So those were the  
only two scenarios that actually resulted in 
what we could see. But over the two, one was  
preferable because the scenario with the Egyptians 
and the Hittites going down, we know that's not  
what happened. We know the Egyptians survived. 
The Hittites do not. Their society basically  
ends for all intents and purposes. The Egyptians, 
while they don't do well, they do muddle through,  
they coped and they kind of adapted, but they do 
survive the collapse. So we knew that scenario  
in which both went down at once didn't work. We 
know historically that's not what happened. That  
has left us with the scenario of Ugarit and the 
Hittites going down virtually simultaneously. That  
would have been enough to bring down the whole 
thing. But interestingly, the rest of them, the  
Assyrians going down, the Babylonians going down, 
whatever, none of that would have been enough to  
take out the entire network. So it does show that 
it's not easy to collapse a network and that I  
would say you're much more likely to be able to 
be resilient and overcome a catastrophe than you  
are to be taken down by it, but it really depends 
on how effectively you react to it. And if you are  
actually trying to survive the collapse, instead 
of ignoring it and denying it is happening,  
but that brings us to another question of whether 
they even knew they were collapsing while they  
were collapsing, did they? So what we're talking 
about at the end of this late run stage with the  
collapse is what is known as a systems collapse. 
This was a term that was invented by Colin Renfrew  
at the University of Cambridge in the late 1970s, 
but it basically describes what happens when you  
have one of these complex systems collapse. 
You've got your central economy collapses,  
your upper elite, the 1% go away. You've got the 
government, the centralized government collapses.  
You have all these hallmarks of what had 
made your society so vibrant and thriving,  
they now all go away. And along with that, you've 
got a huge decrease in population, both death and  
migration. And that's what we see at this end of 
the late run stage. So I think we're looking at a  
systems collapse. Now, it's not unique here. There 
are systems collapses that have happened elsewhere  
and elsewhere. The Maya collapse, follow the 
Roman Empire, the Harappan civilization in India,  
it happens. And in most cases, when you have one 
of these systems collapse, you have then a dark  
age that happens immediately afterward where you 
revert back to a lower level of socio-political  
economic functioning. You go a whole step 
backwards into what historians call a dark age.  
And you basically have to start all over again. 
Now, the thing is a systems collapse doesn't  
happen overnight. It can take up to a century to 
take place. So like life was very different in  
1200 BC from 1100 BC and completely different in 
1000 BC. So we're looking at a systems collapse  
and then we're looking at a dark age afterward. 
And in the dark age, that's when you try and  
regroup basically. And one thing that Colin 
Renfrew said is one of the hallmarks of a dark age  
is that they look back at the age that has just 
disappeared and consider it a golden age and they  
frequently tell stories about it. And you know, 
that's exactly what we've got with Homer and the  
Iliad and the Odyssey and the story of the Trojan 
War and so on. So I do think we've got a systems  
collapse and I do think it segues right into what 
historians have called a dark age because some of  
the same things that we lose because of a systems 
collapse are the very same things that define a  
dark age. They lose, for example, the knowledge 
of how to put up big buildings. They lose writing,  
linear B in my Sydney and Greece is not used 
again after the collapse of the Mycenaeans.  
So what we've got then is in the years, in the 
centuries, after the collapse, say for 400 years,  
say from 1200 BC down to about 800 BC, four 
centuries. This is what historians have called  
the world's first dark age and they point to 
everything that I've just said. Now, that's  
kind of not fair, I would say, in a way because 
each of the different societies is affected to a  
different degree. Some actually did okay in the 
collapse. Others, like the Hittites, completely  
disappeared. And it's also an era of invention and 
innovation, in part because they had to, right?  
What's the saying, necessity is the mother of 
invention? If you're having trouble getting tin,  
for example, and you can't make copper, you might 
turn to another metal that you already knew about,  
but that you hadn't been exploiting yet because it 
was too difficult, too hard, didn't have enough,  
whatever, iron. Iron does not really come into 
use until during and after the collapse and it  
becomes a replacement for bronze. Now, that 
doesn't mean bronze completely goes away,  
but it does mean that iron takes its place. We 
also get the standardization of the alphabet at  
this time, which the Phoenicians bring across the 
Mediterranean. Now, the Phoenicians who come from  
central Canaan, what we would call today Lebanon, 
they're actually survivors of the collapse. They  
actually are among the people that do the best 
in the aftermath of the collapse in terms of  
resilience and transformation. And the Phoenicians 
standardize the alphabet. They don't invent it,  
it's already been around, but they standardize 
it, they bring it over to Greece and they bring it  
over to Italy, and it becomes the Greek alphabet 
and it becomes the Latin alphabet, which we're  
still using today. So the Phoenicians and the 
Cypriots, alphabet and iron, because the Cypriots,  
who had been the source for all the copper, now 
seem to be the first people to be using iron.  
We get the first bi-metallic weapons and tools 
where we've got like an iron blade and a knife,  
but bronze rivets in the handle and the Cypriots 
send them out to Greece on one hand and the Levant  
on the other. And they seem to have been very nice 
about it because they sent the technology as well,  
oh, you like this? Well, here's how you make it. 
And every country had iron ore, it wasn't like the  
copper in the tin. And we can see the development 
of iron working spread across the Aegean and the  
Eastern Mediterranean. So I would say Cypriots 
with their iron Phoenicians with the alphabet and  
don't forget purple dye as well, they're doing the 
best. But that also means that our dark age might  
not be a dark age. And one of my colleagues 
has said that any age that sees the invention  
of iron and the standardization of the alphabet 
cannot be considered to be a dark age. It's an age  
of invention. And so what we archaeologists are 
trying to argue now is stop calling it a dark age,  
just like the medieval people don't want theirs 
to be a dark age anymore either. And now it's  
like late antique or the early Middle Ages. Same 
thing with us. We don't want a dark age now. What  
we wanna do is simply call it what it is. It's 
the iron age. It's when they start using iron. And  
that's got no pejorative sense or anything like 
that. It's just a fact. You had the Bronze Age,  
now you have the iron age. And so I think that 
actually is a better way to describe this. Now,  
I will admit that many of the societies do go back 
down to a lower level of socioeconomic political  
circumstances, like the Mycenaeans on mainland 
Greece, on the Minoans on Crete. Others disappear  
entirely like the Hittites. But, Cypriots do okay, 
Phoenicians do okay, Assyrians and Babylonians do  
okay. So we actually, we need to be specific here 
and differentiate between the different societies  
as to how well they did or didn't do. And then 
see if there are any lessons that we can learn  
from that. One of the other things to keep in 
mind, and which is at the basis of the debate  
between archaeologists and ancient historians 
as to whether we're looking at a collapse or a  
transformation at the end of the late Bronze Age, 
has to do with the idea of how much survived and  
how much didn't. In terms of the people themselves 
versus the societies that they make up. So,  
for instance, and this is a part of a problem 
too. All right, you take something like ancient  
Anatolia and we talked about the Hittite Empire. 
Well, there's actually a whole mess of different  
ethnicities that are living in Anatolia at that 
time. The Hittites, per se, might have been the  
overlords. They might have had the Empire, but the 
Luwians that are there would have said, I'm not a  
Hittite, right? The Trojans up in Troy, I'm not a 
Hittite, right? But we talk about this, you know,  
big entity. So when we get to the collapse and 
then the survival afterward, when I talk about  
a collapse, I don't mean that everybody dies. I 
mean, a lot of people do. The estimates in Greece,  
for example, or maybe as much as 40% of the 
population died or migrated between, say, the 13th  
and the 11th centuries BC. So, you know, a lot 
of people do die. It wasn't a wonderful time, but  
not everybody does. Same thing with Anatolia, with 
the Hittites, same thing with Mesopotamia and the  
Assyrians. So what we have to realize is there is 
some level of continuum that life does continue,  
but what changes is the political entities, 
if you will, the societal entities. So we no  
longer have the Hittites, per se, in Anatolia, 
but we do have some of the survivors, and we  
call them the Neo-Hittites down in North Syria. 
Others, though like the Etruscans, you do have  
new peoples moving into some areas, and we know 
this from the records, like the Frigens coming in,  
we know about their invasion, but you've got other 
people who are still farming in Anatolia that are  
basically looking over their shoulders saying, 
"Okay, who am I paying taxes to tomorrow?" Right,  
I'm still here. My Hittite government isn't 
here. So we do have to keep this in mind. Even  
in Greece, for example, nobody called themselves 
a Mycenaean after about 1050, but that doesn't  
mean that Greece was empty. It means that the 
survivors were just dealing with life and figuring  
out what to do after that. So this is where we 
still have our arguments in academia. What is  
a collapse? What is a transformation? Right, and 
where do the two meet? Where's the gray area? And  
that's why I kind of took, I wouldn't call it 
the easy way out, but I wanted my cake and to  
eat it too. And so in the sequel, I said, what 
collapsed was the network that connected them  
all? What transformed are the various societies? 
And they didn't always transform, some just coped,  
some adapted, but that's where you get the 
nuances. But you also have to realize too,  
that you're really talking about the whole 
group. And if you get down to the individuals,  
that's where it's, first of all, I'm gonna get 
very, very interesting. I mean, what I wouldn't  
give to have a time machine and go back and 
yeah, it'd be great to talk to the kings and the  
pharaohs. I'd also like to talk to the farmer in 
Messenia, living near Pilos and saying, so how did  
your life change after the palace went down? And 
that is nearly impossible to answer, unless you  
get lucky doing some archeology. But I do think 
we have to keep this in mind, the ethnicities  
versus the societies, the people versus the 
government, and just realize that we're frequently  
talking about the forest and not the individual 
trees. Because in part, that's all we can do.  
(gentle music) One of the questions that I think 
is extremely relevant today comes in the sequel  
that I wrote, the after 1177 BC, which simply 
asks the question, what do you do if your society  
collapses? If the globalized network that you're 
a part of collapses, what do you do? How resilient  
are you? Now, resilience is a word that's bandied 
about today by lots of people, and that's part  
of the problem. It has different meanings for 
different people and in different situations.  
For me, resilience is how well you do in the 
face of adversity. How do you bounce back when  
something has gone wrong, sometimes very wrong? 
And I think there are basically three ways you  
can deal with it. And I get these from the IPCC, 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  
They won the Nobel Prize back in 2007. They are 
the ones that put out reports on climate change  
every year or every couple of years. And they put 
out something back in 2012 that was dealing with  
resilience and mitigation that what do you do 
after disasters? They're more looking at things  
like New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, that 
kind of thing. But in that publication, they had  
some definitions that I thought fit very well with 
the late Bronze Age collapse and its aftermath.  
And what they say is that when you have such an 
event, there are basically three things you can  
do. You can either just try to survive until 
tomorrow, which basically means that you're  
coping, right? You're trying to make it until 
the sun comes up again. But you could also do  
a little bit more. You could adapt. You could be 
looking to next week or next month and just saying  
a little bit longer term survival. So coping is 
just tomorrow, adapting is a little bit further  
out. But they also said there's a third thing. 
If you were to say this can never happen again,  
we can't let New Orleans be flooded by the next 
hurricane. We have to transform. We have to do  
something about it. They said that's the top of 
the heap, basically. Yeah, you can cope. Yeah,  
you can adapt. If you transform, that's now, 
that's where we're talking. And so I think that we  
can take a look at the G8 that was affected by the 
collapse and ask, how well did each of them do?  
Did they simply cope? Did they adapt? Or did they 
go the extra mile and transform? Or did they do  
none of the above and they disappeared? So I think 
we can actually rank them and then try to ask,  
although this gets very difficult, try to ask what 
made each of them resilient or not? What made them  
be able to transform, cope, adapt or not? And 
that's where it gets down into the nitty gritty  
and the weeds and is kind of a, yeah, we might say 
that, but it's gonna be hypothetical. But I think  
it's worth exploring because again, I think 
that's where we have lessons that might still  
be viable for us today. One of the things that we 
see in the aftermath and the collapse is basically  
a new world order. As each of the societies 
does or does not deal well in the aftermath,  
we can see new political systems popping up, for 
example. We can see new economic systems as they  
try and either grow back up from the ground like 
the Mycenaeans had to do. And again, we don't have  
Mycenaean society after about 1050 BC. We now have 
the Greeks going back to ground zero and trying to  
build everything back up. In other places, the 
huge empires that had been around, the Hittites,  
the Egyptians, Assyrians, Babylonians, some 
of them go away and are replaced by kind of a  
new world order. The Hittites, for example, up in 
Anatolia, they're replaced by smaller city-states  
and kingdoms. We've got some survivors whom 
we call the Neo-Hittites, the new Hittites in  
North Syria, but we've also got new groups, the 
Eartians, over in the eastern half of Turkey and  
the Phrygians over in the western half of Turkey. 
They come on in and establish new, albeit smaller,  
kingdoms in the Iron Age. I think we see this 
especially though, down in the southern Levant,  
the area that today would be Israel, Palestinian 
territories, Jordan, part of Lebanon, because  
where we had the Canaanites in the Bronze 
Age and the Egyptian overlords, if you will,  
because the Egyptians basically ruled that 
area as part of their kingdom or empire,  
that all goes away at the end of the Late 
Bronze Age and it's replaced with much smaller  
city-states and kingdoms, which will sound 
familiar because we know them from the Hebrew  
Bible. We now have, after the collapse in the Iron 
Age, we now have the northern kingdom of Israel,  
the southern kingdom of Judah. We've got the 
kingdom of Edom, the kingdom of Moab, the kingdom  
of Ammon. All of these areas that we know from the 
biblical stories, they come into existence during  
these 400 years after the collapse. They are a 
reaction to what had just happened. And in fact,  
some scholars have suggested that maybe that's 
more than natural order of things, to have smaller  
city-states and smaller kingdoms and that the 
empires of the Late Bronze Age were, as one person  
has put it, a failed experiment that they tried 
and it didn't work all that well. I think I would  
disagree with that. I mean, that system survived 
for 500 years. I think that was pretty good,  
but it has no place now in the aftermath and 
we get all of these smaller city-states that  
are now flourishing. On the other hand, again, 
it's not all that cut and dried because what  
about the Assyrians and the Babylonians over in 
Mesopotamia? They're still there. They're now  
called the Neo-Assyrians and the Neo-Babylonians, 
the new ones, but they have survived the collapse,  
pretty much intact. They didn't do as well 
as the Phoenicians and the Cypriots who I  
would give a gold star rating to, number one, 
in my book, but I would give the Assyrians and  
Babylonians number two. They adapted, they almost 
kind of sort of transformed, but at least adapted,  
they've still got their government, they've 
still got writing, they're still writing,  
they've still got their religion, they've still 
got the king and all the government and all that,  
still got the economy. It's just things have 
changed slightly. And in fact, one of the things  
I think changed and I explore this in the sequel 
after 1177 BC is that they've lost their trading  
partners because that globalized network has 
broken down and some of the people with whom  
they'd been interacting are now basically gone. 
Like they can't interact with the Hittites anymore  
'cause they're not there, there's no big Hittite 
king. Instead, what the Neo-Assyrians do after it  
took them a little while to come back also, they 
do have drought there for a while, but when they  
bounce back by the 10th and certainly by the 9th 
century BC, like halfway through the Iron Age,  
the Neo-Assyrians take over pretty much the 
entire ancient Near East. Basically all the areas  
they had been trading with and had commercial 
and diplomatic and marital ties back in the  
late Bronze Age, they've now just conquered. 
It's now part of the Neo-Assyrian Empire that  
stretches all the way to the Mediterranean 
Sea and down to Egypt in fact at one point.  
So we see things change and we do now see empires 
growing again, but for a different reason. The  
Neo-Assyrians are now taking what they need rather 
than trading for it. And this is when we also  
begin to see the rise and fall of civilizations. 
I mean in Hamilton, it talks about oceans, rise,  
empires, fall, that's basically what we've got 
here because yes, the Neo-Assyrians rise up and  
they're dominant for a while, but then they go 
down and collapse and the Neo-Babylonians take  
over for a while and then they collapse and turn 
and we're often running with the Persians and then  
the Greeks and then the Romans and follow us 
up until today. But that's in part why I would  
again argue that the collapse of the late Bronze 
Age is so important and what happened after the  
collapse of the Bronze Age is perhaps even more 
important because it shows what happens if you are  
or not resilient, but it also set us on the path 
for what we've got today in the Western world.  
That is where everything comes from that we've 
got. I mean, yes, you can look back to Mesopotamia  
and Egypt and all that for some of the things that 
we've still got today, but out of the collapse  
of the late Bronze Age is gonna come Greece, 
archaic and classical Greece with the invention  
of democracy and so on. So we're gonna be on a, I 
wouldn't call it a straight path, but we can trace  
ourselves back to what happened 3,000 years ago 
to what we've got today. If we're ranking these  
societies as to how well they did in the aftermath 
of the collapse, I would put the Cypriots and the  
Phoenicians in the top category. They not only 
transform, but they're actually anti-fragile. Now,  
this is a phrase that Nicholas Nassim Taleb 
has used. In fact, it's the title of one of  
his books. And what he says is that anti-fragile 
is something that actually flourishes in an age  
of chaos. It takes advantage of the chaos. So 
one might actually say, you know, collapse is  
not always terrible for everyone. For some people, 
it's an opportunity. And in this particular case,  
for example, we see the Phoenicians from central 
Canaan. They spread out across the Mediterranean.  
One of my colleagues has called it a Phoenician 
lake. They take advantage of the fact that Ugarit  
has been destroyed and that the navies of some of 
the others, like the Hittites and the Egyptians,  
have either been destroyed or are not what they 
once were. So I would say both the Cypriots and  
the Phoenicians are actually anti-fragile. They 
are flourishing in this age of chaos. They do  
better than anybody else. So I put them up in my 
top category. The Assyrians and the Babylonians,  
they adapt, but they don't really transform 
that much because they don't need to. They  
simply carry on as they were, but they are better 
than the Egyptians, for example. Now, I would put  
the Egyptians in my category three. They are 
adapting a little bit, but more they're just  
kind of coping, if you will. They don't go down, 
they don't disappear. And in fact, that was one  
thing that I kind of changed from book one to book 
two. And the end of book one, I was like, "Ooh,  
Egypt is the only one that really survived." And 
then book two, I'm a bit more nuanced. And like,  
no, actually there are others that survived better 
than Egypt. And I would put Egypt in the middle  
category three. They didn't do wonderfully, but 
they didn't do terribly. They're still there,  
but they have now withdrawn a bit from the 
international world because they are having  
problems back home, if I can put it that way. 
So this is into the third intermediate period,  
as Egyptologists call it. And at one point, 
we've got not just one, not just two, but three,  
and sometimes even four, people all saying that 
they are the pharaoh of Egypt at the same time,  
but in different areas of Egypt. Now to my mind, 
that's not a good system. Egypt is supposed to  
be one king, one ruler, one country. And we look 
back to the new kingdom period, right? King Tut,  
Akhenaten, Amenhotep III. And so in comparison 
to the way it had been, in what I would say is  
the glory days of the 14th and 13th centuries, 
Egypt in the 12th, 11th, 10th, 9th centuries is  
not even really comparable, but it's not terrible. 
And we do have some highlights. So for example,  
there's one guy PusinesPureness who is known as 
the Silver Pharaoh. His tomb was found in 1939,  
right before World War II. If it had been found 
at any other time, it would have made worldwide  
headlines because it's, I believe, the second 
wealthiest tomb in Egypt just behind King Tut's.  
But most of the stuff in the tomb is silver rather 
than gold. So that's kind of a high point. We also  
have one of the pharaohs, a guy named Shishak, 
Shishak of the Bible, probably. He's Libyan,  
he's the founder of the 22nd dynasty. And he 
actually tries to recreate the good old days,  
leaves us an inscription where he went up 
to Israel and Judah and campaigned up there.  
And may have even conquered, for example, Megiddo 
where we find an inscription with his cartouche up  
there. So it's not terrible in Egypt, but it's not 
like it used to be. One Egyptologist said to me,  
actually, when I gave a lecture there, that that's 
not a fair comparison, that it's like apples and  
oranges. And you can't compare third intermediate 
period to the new kingdom period. And I'm like,  
well, maybe not, but I'm comparing the iron age to 
the Bronze Age in all the other societies. So I do  
think it's a fair comparison, but, so it turned 
out what I said to them is, these categories I'm  
putting the societies in, ranking them one, two, 
three. I said, it's just my gut feeling based on  
everything that I've studied, but, you know, I'm 
not the be-all and end-all here. You wanna present  
data that would persuade me to move them up or 
down. I'm quite happy to do that. So I will say  
now that you could put Egypt up in category two 
with Assyria and Babylon, and I'd still be able  
to sleep at night. But I'd also be quite happy 
to put them down into category four where they  
were like with the Mycenaeans and Minoans. So 
it's all fluid. And, you know, that's kind of  
the beauty of archeology in ancient history, is we 
put out a hypothesis and then we try and test it,  
and then we go and excavate and find something 
completely new next week that makes us rearrange  
it. And that's all good. It's called science. 
That's how we advance. That's how we progress.  
But for now, I'm gonna keep Egypt in category 
three. Category four, as I've just mentioned,  
is Minoans and Mycenaeans. They are just barely 
coping. They're not adapting. They're just coping.  
We see all the big palaces in mainland Greece. And 
even on Crete for that matter, Mycenae, Tyrans,  
Pylos, or Cominos, Knossos, they either are 
burned, invaded, internal rebellion, earthquake,  
you name it, they're all basically abandoned. 
And with them goes the writing system. Linear B,  
which we now know, is an early form of Greek 
that ceases to be used by about 1050 BC,  
because it was only being used by the scribes in 
the palaces to create inventories. What came into  
the palace, what went out of the palace? Though 
surprisingly, they never mentioned overseas.  
The linear B never mentions contacts with Egypt 
or the Hittites, whatever. It's a big problem,  
because I know from the archeology that they are 
in contact. At any rate, what we would have called  
the Mycenaeans and Minoans, it comes crashing 
down. And as I've mentioned, they had to rebuild  
from the ground up. They do it successfully, but 
it takes quite a while. And that's why I end after  
1177 BC with 776 BC, which is the first Olympics. 
And by that point, everything in Greece is back up  
and running, and we're very quickly going to 
get them using the new Greek alphabet. We're  
gonna get Homer, we're gonna get Hesiod, we'll get 
Sappho, we'll get the Archaic poets and Greece is  
off to the races, but it has taken 400 years. So 
I put them in my category four, because they did  
just about as badly as you could possibly do and 
still survive. And then the last category, that's  
the Hittites. Don't be a Hittite. The Hittites 
do not do well at all, in part 'cause they've  
already got internal problems. We know that there 
was a schism in the royal family and that one part  
moved. We also know that the Hittite capital city, 
Hattusa, was actually already abandoned before the  
end came and that it was only partially destroyed 
afterward and probably from people that otherwise  
had nothing to do with anything, the Kaska from 
the Northwest that had already destroyed Hattusa  
a couple hundred years earlier, they came back. So 
I think the Hittites probably did it to themselves  
anyway, though it certainly didn't hurt that 
the sea peoples were on the shores of Anatolia.  
And they would have been a primary example of the 
domino effect. And remember that the Hittites and  
Ugarit going down at the same time may have 
been what caused the collapse of absolutely  
everything. So I put the Hittites down there. I 
also put the Canaanites in Southern Canaan into  
that lowest category, because we really don't see 
them again after the collapse of the late Bronze  
Age. We do not refer to the Canaanites in the Iron 
Age by that name, we now call them by other names,  
the Judites, the Israelites, the Ammonites, the 
Moabites, the Edomites. And so I'm of two minds,  
either they were wiped out or they assimilated 
one of the two. And we've got both stories in  
the Hebrew Bible, look at the book of Judges 
versus the book of Joshua, is it a genocide or  
is it a simulation? Either way, I don't think 
the Canaanites in Southern Levant, coped or  
adapted or transformed or anything like that. 
And so I put them down in my bottom category.  
On the other hand, if you were to argue, as some 
of my colleagues have done, that the Edomites,  
the Israelites, the Ammonites and all those guys 
are actually Canaanites who have transformed,  
then I would say, okay, in that case, they 
should be up in category two. You know,  
again, it's all flexible. I only put this out as 
a suggestion for what we might think about doing.  
And I fully expect that my suggestions hopefully 
will start the discussions rather than end it. And  
I think that the new discoveries that we're making 
every day, every week, every month, every year,  
especially in biblical archeology, are going to 
get us to alter things just like we've altered.  
Now what we think caused the late Bronze Age 
collapse will be able to fine tune how everybody  
did in the aftermath. But I wanted to start the 
discussions and I think they're pretty interesting  
discussions, which again, have some bearing on 
us today when we are grappling with some of the  
same things that brought down the late Bronze Age 
network and that the survivors had to deal with in  
the aftermath. We look around today, we've got the 
same things here. This is where we have rheumidum  
maneuver and where I think investigations are 
going to go in the future, because even though  
I think we can rank these societies as to how 
well they each did, one of the difficulties is to  
try to figure out why they did, like why were the 
Cypriots and the Phoenicians able to be that much  
more successful than the Hittites, for example. 
So archeologists and ancient historians are now  
starting to try and answer these questions to 
grapple with the concepts. And we're getting  
a couple of interesting things. For example, 
it's now been suggested that maybe some of the  
societies were more fragile than they appeared 
and that they might have been more vulnerable  
to the stresses than they appeared to outsiders. 
Like the Mycenaeans, they had been over exploiting  
the lower classes and those lower classes might 
have been quite happy to see the palaces fall  
and even cheered and they may have been in all 
part of the internal rebellions. So it may be  
that something that looked very strong like the 
Hittites was actually weakened internally and the  
first big gust of wind came and knocked that 
tree over and boom, no more Hittites. But it  
also might have just been the luck of the draw. 
It might have been geographical luck. So I think  
that's where water comes into play because the 
Assyrians and the Babylonians are in my category  
two and they're right by the Tigris and Euphrates. 
And the Egyptians, of course, have the Nile. Now,  
those are three of the big four in the ancient 
world. I mean, my poor Mycenaeans and Minoans,  
they're not quite up there with the others. You 
know, the big two in the late Bronze Age are the  
Egyptians and the Hittites, but then Assyrians 
and Babylonians. So of those four, Egyptians,  
Hittites, the Syrians, Babylonians, the Syrians 
and Babylonians have the Tigris and Euphrates. The  
Egyptians have the Nile. The Hittites are the only 
one of those four without a major water source.  
They're also the only one of those four that 
go down completely. I don't think that's a  
coincidence. And in fact, in talking to various 
people, I've heard time and time again that wars  
over water are gonna be what are fought in the 
coming century. And we can already see that in  
California with water, with Colorado, with Mexico 
and all of that. So I think in some ways, the fact  
that the Assyrians and the Babylonians were able 
to maintain their government and their religion  
and their writing systems and all of that might've 
been just luck of the draw. That they were so far  
inland that the sea peoples didn't get to them and 
they were on the two rivers, Tigers and Euphrates,  
so that the drought didn't impact them as 
badly as it did others. But having said that,  
we have written texts from the Assyrians that 
do talk about period of drought. They are Hitt.  
It's not that long though. It's like less than 
a century. And it came well after everyone else  
had been hit. So there is something there to 
be said for where you happen to be. So again,  
I think this is where we're gonna be looking 
in the future is how did these people manage  
to survive? Or why didn't they survive? Were they 
not aware that they were collapsing? And again,  
we have to keep in mind and actually say this at 
the beginning of the sequel. Most of our records  
are from the 1%. They're from the elite. We know 
how the kings did and the central authorities that  
were living high. We don't know as much about the 
99% if you wanna call them that, about the farmers  
and the peasants out in the fields in Messinia 
in Greece or the Hinterlands in Anatolia. We  
don't really know their story that well, but we're 
learning it because archaeologists are now moving  
out and excavating the little villages, the little 
towns that are inhabited across the divide, Bronze  
Age and Iron Age. And so we're gonna get more 
evidence. We're gonna get more answers. And again,  
that's what I love about archeology. It's not cut 
and dried. And if you will pardon the pun, it's  
not set in stone. It changes depending on the new 
discoveries. So everything you're reading in the  
books, not just my books, but the history books 
and all that, it's gonna be different to a certain  
extent within five years, 10 years, 50 years. 
I've already come out with the revised version  
of my first book and I have a folder in Dropbox of 
new articles that have already come out since 2021  
that I need to take into account if we're ever 
able to do a third edition. It just keeps coming.  
It doesn't stop. And that is what is absolutely 
wonderful about it. In addition to all the other  
factors, whether it was luck in the draw, where 
you were situated or anything like that, the other  
factor to bring into account is how good were 
your leaders? That is, were they able to lead you  
through this time of turbulence and catastrophe? 
Did you have the right people in the right place  
at the right time or not? Now, I suspect that 
contributed a lot to this as well. So for example,  
when Egypt had three or even four people all 
saying that they were the Pharaoh at the same time  
in different parts of the country, that's not good 
leadership. It's not how you're gonna get through  
this. Similarly, the Hittite royal family had a 
schism at exactly this time and parted the ways.  
That was exactly the wrong time to do that. You 
needed a strong leader in place at that time. Now,  
the one or the two societies that do seem to have 
had the right people at the right place at the  
right time are the Assyrians and the Babylonians. 
The Neo-Assyrian rulers and the Neo-Babylonian  
rulers seem to have been the ones that got their 
societies through this. In fact, a couple of  
fairly well-known scholars, a seriologist have 
said that that is why the Neo-Assyrians and the  
Neo-Babylonians held on for about a hundred years 
before everybody else, before they were impacted  
to a certain extent by the collapse. They said it 
was because they had strong rulers in place that  
they were able to stave this off for a couple 
of decades or a century at most. So I do think  
that leadership is incredibly important because 
in part that leadership will determine how well  
you respond. So it's a number of factors that 
I think have to go into all of this. And again,  
that's where I think that even all this, even 
though all of this took place 3,000 years ago,  
it's relevant to today because we've got the same 
things. How strong are our leaders? How resilient  
are our societies? Do we have supply chain issues 
and so on? And I think we can look back to the  
Iron Age kingdoms and see if there's anything that 
we can learn from what they did or did not do and  
see if it's relevant to us today. Having studied 
all of this, what happens in the aftermath and all  
of that, I was again wondering what lessons could 
be learned from the late Bronze Age collapse and  
the aftermath. Was there anything that is of use 
to us today? And I did come up with seven things  
that I think are kind of common sense, if I may, 
that are things to remember, things to live by,  
things that will help us if we're ever going down 
that same path. So I think the first one is pretty  
obvious, that you need to have redundant systems 
in place. We talk about that all the time today,  
but I think it's incredibly important. You need to 
have a plan A, and if that somehow doesn't work,  
you need a plan B. And if that doesn't work, 
you need a plan C. I just kind of like having a  
generator in place in case your electricity goes 
out. But I would say not just a plan A, B and C,  
you need a D, E and F as well. You need multiple 
redundancies in place and plans that you can go to  
if all of your major ones fail. And I think that 
is something that they needed to do back then and  
that we would still need to do today. The next 
couple I would say are, again, common sense. Be  
strong enough to resist invasion if you can. Know 
who your friends are and who they aren't. And also  
be resilient enough to go with the flow as you 
need to be. Don't be rigid, don't be just, you  
know, no, this is how we've always done it. But 
be prepared in case you're invaded. Be prepared  
to reach out to allies. And in that same tone, try 
and be as self-sufficient as you can, but not to  
the detriment of alienating your allies, I would 
say, because you're gonna need each other. So if  
you're gonna make it through this crisis, it's 
gonna be because you're leaning on each other.  
The other lesson that I think has a major takeaway 
from the Iron Age, and I will deliberately call it  
the Iron Age rather than the Dark Age, is to be 
innovative and inventive, right? The fact that  
in the aftermath of the late Bronze Age, they 
were innovative and inventive with Iron and the  
alphabet, I think, is precisely what we would need 
to be again here today. So we're talking, in part,  
this is what evolutionary biologists and others 
would talk about in terms of the adaptive cycle,  
that when you have a crash in one area, you 
then have an immediate era afterward where  
you are innovative and inventive. It's basically 
the rise and fall of empires, but here we've got  
a Mobius strip on its side, I would say, and I 
think that's where this would come into place. If  
you are crashing, if your society is coming down, 
one of the ways you can best be resilient is to  
be innovative, is to be inventive. So back in the 
Iron Age, what they did was turn to iron when they  
were having trouble making bronze. That actually, 
tin back then has been compared to oil today,  
petroleum gasoline, and their need for 
tin back then is much like our oil today,  
but I actually think it's changing now. So just 
like in the Iron Age, they change to iron. So what  
we need to be more worried about, I think in this 
day and age, are rare earths like lithium that are  
used in chips in computers and cars and microwaves 
and everything else. If something happens to the  
supply chain and we are not able to get that, 
I mean, and remember what happened during the  
pandemic, during COVID, which wasn't that long 
ago, that we had such supply chain issues,  
and all of a sudden there was problems getting 
everything from computers to cars, and we need to  
be innovative and inventive. We need to be looking 
already for substitutes that can take the place of  
lithium or whatever. This needs to be not another 
dark age. When we go down, if we go down, and I  
actually think it's gonna be when we go down, 
we need to be prepared to turn on a dime and be  
innovative and see what we come up with next. If 
we're gonna survive the collapse of our society,  
which I do think is coming, I don't know when, 
but I don't think it's are we gonna collapse,  
I think it's when are we gonna collapse? And in 
this case, we're gonna need to be innovative and  
inventive. The other thing we need to do, and 
again, I think this is very relevant to today,  
is to prepare for extreme weather conditions. Now 
back then in the late Bronze Age, I was talking  
about a mega drought that lasted 150 to 300 years. 
That I believe would qualify as an extreme weather  
event. Today, we are also having extreme weather 
events. We see it almost on a daily basis now.  
And what I would say here, my rule of thumb is, 
look, prepare for extreme weather events, because  
then if they come, like intense hurricanes, 
then you're prepared. And if they don't come,  
what have you lost? Not much. So I would say one 
of the big lessons from antiquity is prepare for  
extreme weather conditions. And along those same 
lines, I would say one of the other lessons is to  
really be careful of your water resources. Be very 
careful of where your water is gonna come from,  
whether it's from a river or elsewhere, but 
we saw what happened in the late Bronze Age,  
and we're seeing what's happening today, where 
people are already fighting over water resources,  
and especially rivers. So I would say that that's 
another takeaway from the late Bronze Age collapse  
and its aftermath. And then the last thing that I 
would add, the last common sense thing is keep the  
working class happy. I mean, any historian from 
any period of history will tell you that that's  
essential. Keep the working class happy or there 
will be consequences to pay. And I think we see  
this in the late Bronze Age collapse, especially 
if internal rebellions are a greater factor than  
we have thought even till today. And even now, 
I would say we need to look around and ask,  
are we keeping the working class happy? And if 
not, what's gonna happen? And if people point to  
all sorts of things, like the Russian Revolution 
and the French Revolution and all of that,  
we've seen what happens if the working class is 
not happy. So I think that that is, again, that  
would be my last of the common sense takeaways, 
but surely we can add to it. I mean, I think we  
could probably easily get up to a top 10, but for 
right now, I've got a top seven. One of the things  
we need to be worried about is the tipping point. 
When are we gonna reach the point of no return for  
ourselves? Are there warning signs? I do think 
there were warning signs back in the late Bronze  
Age. We know that the Egyptians, for example, 
were trying to cross-breed their cattle. Their  
normal cattle was Zebu or Zebu cattle who thrive 
better in arid conditions. Is there anything  
we can do today if we notice signs warning us 
that we may be approaching a societal collapse,  
that there might be a tipping point coming up 
soon? I think we've already got some of the signs  
out there. Not everybody believes them, but I do 
think they are there. I think the extreme climate,  
the weather conditions, is one of the signs that 
we're approaching, possibly a tipping point. But  
we've also got other things that some may or 
may not remember, back during the pandemic,  
when we had all sorts of supply chain issues and 
had trouble getting toilet paper, right? That was  
a systemic problem, and I think kind of a warning 
of what might come. The ship that got stuck in  
the Suez Canal for five or six days, that I think 
was also a problem. And it really drove home the  
fact that one ship stuck in one canal can affect 
people worldwide for a week or more. And imagine  
if you had that at the same time as some of the 
other problems. We might have been looking at a  
systems collapse very quickly. And in fact, one of 
the things I am now wondering about, back in 2008,  
we had the Wall Street financial crisis. What if 
that crisis had happened 10 years later or a dozen  
years later? What if we had had the Wall Street 
financial problems at the same time that COVID was  
hitting or beginning to hit? What if they had both 
happened in about 2020? I'm not so sure that we  
would be sitting here today. I think we might be 
scrambling in the ruins of our globalized network.  
I think we might have come this close to our 
tipping point and we're lucky that they were  
10 or 12 years apart. So I don't think we're out 
of the woods yet. And I really do think that when  
people say to me, oh, we can't collapse. We're 
too big to collapse. We're too big to fail. And I  
answer it, no, we're not. That's hubristic. Every 
society in the history of humankind has either  
collapsed eventually completely or has transformed 
so much that they're almost unrecognizable in  
their new form. And to say that that's not 
gonna happen to us, I think is just foolish,  
hubristic for sure. So when people say to me, 
are we gonna collapse? I look at them and I say,  
yes, we are gonna collapse. The question is 
when are we gonna collapse? And for that,  
I don't have an answer. It could be next week, it 
could be next year, could be 10 years from now,  
could be 50 years from now. But I am sure that 
at some point we are gonna collapse or have to  
transform. I mean, maybe AI is gonna create it 
and cause it right now, but who knows? My big  
question to those that are asking me is to ask 
them back when we collapse, how are we gonna deal  
with it? Are we gonna be fragile? Are we gonna be 
vulnerable? Are we gonna be anti-fragile? In the  
aftermath of our society collapse, are we going to 
be Phoenicians? Or are we gonna be Mycenaeans? And  
I personally am a bit worried. As an archeologist, 
I look back. And when I tell my students that  
they're the next generation and they're gonna be 
inheriting all of the problems we've created, we  
know that. I'm not saying anything new, but this 
is where archeology, I think, can be of use. And  
especially archeology when it's applied to ancient 
history. Because if we're willing to listen and  
to learn from the past, then we can deal with 
what's happening in the present and that will  
affect our future. So you need to know the past, 
to deal with the present and go into the future.  
Otherwise, we're just doomed to repeat the past 
again and again and again. And personally, I  
think we're smarter than that. But I may be wrong. 
Let's hope I'm right. Want to support the channel?  
Join the Big Think members community where you 
get access to videos early, ad-free. [ Silence ]