一妻一女一布鞋曾经以这个柬埔标签深受中国人民爱戴的所谓民主企业家中庆后塌房了过去一周,一妻一女一布鞋已经变成了四个孩子三个妈,一双布鞋人人夸国内挣钱国外花,您是表演艺术家 This is because the former Chinese richest and most important Waha Ha founder was suddenly exposed by the media His family is now in a fierce property dispute It involves 3.4 billion RMB assets Now, three illegitimate children have sued the court for the only illegitimate daughter of the late Zhong Qing Demand to split Waha Ha shares and claim all rights to a Li Anxin Tuo fund worth $2.1 billion This is the most controversial thing among the so-called patriots Last year, they just openly denounced the farmer's rights and But now the media has exposed that the three of the married and unmarried children after the mid-winter are all American Besides, Phoenix also found out more secrets It is said that after the Mid-Autumn Festival, not only these three married women There are at least three other women who have not appeared In other words, there are at least six potential opponents of the Mid-Autumn Festival Of course, my old audience should know I have never been interested in gossip and the struggle of the nobility But the Li Anxin Tuo, financial structure and fund law related to this matter I think it is very valuable to my audience And the key battleground of this estate battle It was set up by the three of his daughter after the mid-winter Li Anxin Tuo fund worth $2.1 billion In the eyes of the public, the trust fund of rich families seems to be full of mystery But trust fund can be said to be the most misunderstood financial tool in the world So today I want to use this world-renowned Chinese-owned Haumen Inner Battle to give you a complete disassembly How does the trust fund work? How do rich people in the world use the trust fund to complete the law and supervision? After I talk about the various ways of trust After everyone knows the operation mechanism of trust We will come back and carefully disassemble the trust tubes of this Zhong Qinghou family See what's going on 看完这个视频对这场遗产争夺战未来几个月的后续进展你就不再只是一名只会看热闹的普通观众了你将会成为看懂这当中门道的专业吃瓜群众好,那么我们进入主题了 When it comes to the trust fund, does it appear in your mind? A group of spoiled children drive Lamborghini to the flower garden sell bar, take medicine and post on Instagram and red books every day In the west, this kind of young people are called Trust fund baby 在普羅大眾眼中他們是含著金湯匙儲神未來全都已經被規劃好無需努力就可以一輩子過著優渥生活的富二代但如果我告訴你這恰恰是信託基金真正用途的反面呢?你在社交媒體上看到的那些炫富的年輕人如果不是裝的那頂多只是一般低端爆發戶的敗家子 真正的信託寶寶並不是這樣的所以我說信託基金也許是這世上最被誤解的金融工具頂級富豪和爆發戶的區別在哪裡呢?在頂級富豪的圈層當中真正的魔法並不在錢本身而是在守住財富的一套完整體系上而信託基金正是這個體系當中最重要的一種工具 金托基金的本質恰恰不是讓富人的孩子們揮霍無度而是讓財富能夠被長期的跨世代的被掌控和管理這是富人們確保自己辛辛苦苦賺來的錢不會在一代人手中就被消耗殆盡的一種金融債體 Many people don't realize that Compared to making hundreds of millions of dollars It's actually harder to make these wealth To be able to cross generations You must have heard a saying "You can't be rich for three generations" But in fact, this is not unique in Chinese culture Many ethnicities and cultures have similar sayings And the most interesting thing is Everyone is talking about three generations In the US, there is a saying "Shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves in three generations" The translation is "From the factory to the factory within three generations" It means The first generation wears work clothes and work hard to earn money The second generation is a rich man who doesn't know how to make money The third generation is not capable and lacks self-discipline and eventually goes to the end and becomes the working class who wears factory clothes In England, this saying is called "In three generations, from the wood shoes to the wood shoes" Basically the same meaning In the book of the book, there is an old saying "Father bought it, son built it, grandson sold it, and the grandson went to ask for food" So, "in three generations" seems to be a common threshold for all mankind It can be said to be a curse that crosses the country and the race So after the industrial revolution, when many Western families quickly accumulated a lot of wealth, the framework of modern trust fund is gradually awakening. How does the trust fund work? You can imagine the trust fund as a container. 而你作為委託人可以將你擁有的各種資產比如現金、房產、股票、人手保險的保單甚至是知識產權等等裝進這個容器當中你裝進去的這些東西將成為這個信託基金的資產由你來決定誰是這些資產的受益人通常是你的配偶、子女、孫子、孫女甚至是你所指定的機構比如你的母校或某某慈善機構等等 而在本次事件當中鍾慶厚就是信托的委託人他的三個婚外子女就是他所指定的受益人你可能會說那這不就是個遺產嗎不是的信托是一種附帶條件的證語 Through credit, you can decide who gets what You can also decide when they get it In what way And why In the specific operation The credit fund is essentially a set of legal mechanisms Or a set of rules The rich stipulates that this money can only be used or issued when the specific rules set by me are met Even if I am no longer in the world The trust fund can allow the rich to delay the time for their children to obtain wealth or to stipulate that the money can only be used for certain purposes such as education, buying a house or starting a business Therefore, the trust fund also needs a very important third party which is the trustee The victim is an outsider who does not have any personal feelings His task is to strictly implement the fund-using rules set by the client Generally speaking, the victim is a lawyer, bank or trust company Of course you can also point out your trusted friend or family The rich use trust fund Actually, the bottom line is They don't trust their children to own this wealth It means I took down this country I won't let a stock in the family destroy it overnight Data shows In the United States, people with a net worth of more than 30 million dollars At least 90% set up a trust fund Of course, besides controlling and managing your future generations, how to use your wealth, there is another important function of the trust fund, which is the currency tax. I will talk about this later. After more than 100 years of development, there are many forms of trust fund. Next, I will tell you about some common and important. 從大框架來看,有兩種信託類型可撤銷信託和不可撤銷信託可撤銷信託顧名思義就是在委託人還活著的時候他隨時可以修改、取消或更新信託基金的一切條款從信託金額、受益人、受託人甚至可以取消整個信託而不可撤銷信託則代表一旦基金設立並註冊基本上就無法撤回或修改 You may ask, who would want to have an irreversible trust? In fact, they have their own advantages The advantage of the removable trust is obviously flexibility The client has maintained the control of the fund before he died Can change the terms according to the situation For example, if the child is down or unfilial, leave him less Or you think it's too late to pay the money when the child is 25 years old You want to change to 21 years old, etc. But the rich will choose an unremitting trust in most cases Why is this? Because when you put the assets into an irreparable trust fund, from the legal point of view, these assets no longer belong to you. What are the benefits? First, if you go bankrupt or owe a lot of debt, no one, the debtors, banks or the government, can touch your trust fund. Your beneficiary can still enjoy all the rights and interests of the trust. Of course, you can't establish trust after you owe money The intention of establishing trust is not to avoid debt Second, this is the most important point Since these assets are not yours After the client leaves the company, transfer them to the beneficiary No need to pay the inheritance tax I will explain the benefits of tax later above are the two major frames of credit but there are also various types of credit such as limited credit suitable for those who are not successful rich or poor this credit will allocate a small amount of money to prevent them from going back and forth防止他们胡乱汇获 For example, they can jump the belt and give the money to their grandchildren There was a dog that a US citizen gave to him He left a $12 million trust fund To ensure that they can still enjoy high-end dog life after their owner's death Including personal care, regular spa, etc. 所以你可以看到其實信託基金裡最有意思的就是你幾乎可以設置任何你能想到的條件只要條件是合法的可執行的比如你可以說我的孩子只有在獲得至少本科學位後才能每年從信託裡領取20萬美元 Or if my child does not set up a marriage property agreement when he is married, then cut all the funds. Or you can set the equivalent ratio of how much money the child earns every year to the camera. He earns 100,000, give him 100,000. He earns 1 million, give him 1 million. To stimulate the child to continue to progress, etc. So, it's not necessarily that only super rich people can set up a trust fund. As long as you have some assets that you want to pass on to the next generation under certain conditions, anyone can set up a trust fund. And for those rich families who live in very high-income countries, the real magic of the trust fund is still on the currency. 比如在美國,2024年個人超過1361萬美金以上的遺產部分最高將被徵收40%的遺產稅而信託基金就是設計來繞開這些稅法的工具只要你將資產的所有權轉移到信託名下這些資產在法律上就不再屬於你既然這東西不屬於你,政府也就不能向你徵稅 不過呢,以信託來避稅主要只是對那些身在有高遺產稅國家的富豪有用,尤其是美國。這是因為美國的遺產稅和信託法規其實是自相矛盾的。你想想啊,如果一個國家的政府認為富人家族應該承擔很高的遺產稅,因為這是社會財富再分配最好的手段。 but at the same time, the leak of the credit fund can be closed Isn't that a lot of words? Why don't you just lower the debt? For example, Japan's debt is one of the highest in the world up to 55% But you can hardly avoid it through credit The US property tax is very high, but it leaves a lot of holes in the tax law for rich people to avoid tax The result is that those super rich people who can afford the private lawyer and accountant can avoid tax And the average middle-class should bear a high tax At the same time, it also raises a lot of lawyers and accountants 美國形成這樣的一個情況跟他的政治有關表面上的高遺產稅可以讓左派人士覺得富人承擔了他們應該承擔的社會責任但稅法上留下的漏洞讓右派也覺得滿意認為法律保護了企業主和資本家這算是一種政治妥協吧 What about China? China currently does not have any property tax But for rich people in China, the risk of their wealth is not from taxes but from political risk In China, no one's wealth is really their own Right? When will the government want to give you the same wealth? That's a question So for the top Chinese rich people They basically set up the so-called "leave the case" or "family office" I will talk about the family business later And this time, the family's inheritance share of the Zhong Qinghou family It's about the "leave the case" in Hong Kong The basic reason for leaving the case is the US dollar fund In fact, these Chinese rich people have transferred the assets they want to leave to the children to the places that the CCP can't reach Basically, they are still ensuring the safety of these wealth Of course, is the current financial situation in Hong Kong still safe? I think many people are not so confident So the Singapore family office has been very popular these years But this is another topic Now that you have a deep understanding of the In their report, in 2003, China's China's Hong Kong Bank has established a family trust and promised to give $7 billion to the three children through the future of Waha Ha Group. A total of $2.1 billion. According to the media reports, the cause of this dispute is that after the death of China's China's Qinghou, in May 2024, China's wealth transferred $1.1 million from the account of Huifeng. Now you know that the money in the trust fund can only be managed by the third party's client under the specific conditions set by the client The middle-income is not the client of the trust How can you just transfer the money in the trust account? So there are a lot of questions here The three creditors of the trust fund were very nervous They quickly applied for a temporary ban in the Hong Kong court to prevent China's wealth from continuing to use the money in the account In addition, they also took on a double-edged battle At the same time, the Hong Kong People's Court of China raised a lawsuit demanding that 29.4% of the shares of the Wahaha Group be held by China's wealth According to the current market value calculation, it is about 20 billion RMB That's probably where the media are lost in their words It's hard to explain because no one knows what's going on with all the details To be honest, most journalists and self-media are also half-wits about Sintor They can only report the information publicly and can't make a reasonable analysis But those of you who have seen this video already know a lot about Sintor So based on the existing public information let's analyze what kind of situation it is First, the balance in the account of Huifeng Bank is $1.8 billion In fact, this account has not yet paid off the $2.1 billion promised after the Mid-Autumn Festival In other words, the so-called trust fund has not yet been completed According to the statement of the three plaintiffs, the Chinese government promised to pay the credit to the creditors through the share of Waha Group. In other words, the 2.1 billion is not a one-time payment when setting up the creditors. It takes time to accumulate. Do you remember what I said earlier? Creditors are a container. You have to put things inside. 那如果说你东西都还没装完,那你就不可能封箱既然你不封箱,这个信托根本就还没有形成信托没有形成,就谈不上对资产的隔离和保护有些媒体在讲到这18亿美金的时候不够严谨啊用了信托账户这个词,我估计是不对的 This is just a bank account that the client opened in Huifeng It will be transferred to the credit account only after 21 billion dollars are all bought If you read the three plaintiffs' statement, you will find that In addition to the middle-income, there is also a company called Jinhao Ventures Limited That account belongs to this company 於是我再到網上一查這是一家註冊於英屬維京群島BVI的企業這家監號公司我們姑且稱之為監號投資我幾乎可以肯定這是一家特殊目的公司Special Purpose Vehicle 簡稱SPVSPV的用途一般只有這幾種資產隔離、遺產安排、稅務優化和法律風險的規避而監號投資符合一切SPV的特徵 First, its BVI is one of the most commonly used to set up a company that is out of the box. BVI's corporate tax is zero, and it is very confidential. It is very suitable for setting up as a SPV that is used to isolate assets or hide and control people. Second, there is no sign that the number of investors is any real business operation. No website, no brand, no employees, no business. Third, company registered address as Fistra office Fistra is one of the largest offshore company registrations and trust services in the world Often set up SPV and trust structure for rich or wealthy companies Fourth, company's legal entity identification code That is, the state of LEI is "in effect" In other words, it was established for a specific purpose Stop protecting after completion of the purpose Also meets the characteristics of SPV After receiving this information, I think we can roughly draw out such a scenario. At the end of 2019, the Chinese government decided to set up a trust fund for three married women. The fund is set to be $2.1 billion, $7 billion per person. So, under the advice of the team, Zhong Qinghou adopted the regular approach. Now BVI has established a SPV company, which can be closed and can hide the real identity of the company's real controller. This SPV company is called Jianhao Investment. The purpose is to be a asset holding platform for Sintra Fund. Before the conditions of Sintra Fund are met, it is temporarily used to hold funds. 金號投資成立後就在香港匯豐銀行開設了一個銀行賬號用來承結娃哈哈每年的分紅等到攢購21億美金以後該筆資金就可以轉入信託賬戶完成信託基金的打減 But it was not the end of the story On February 25, 2024, after the mid-March, the fund that was still in the account had not reached 2.1 billion, and then it passed away So the trust fund that had not been completed yet was in a fragile state which gave the middle-income the opportunity to pass on its chance契機 This raises the biggest question Why is the cash that can be used in the account of the company's account? After the death of the company, it transferred $1.1 million There are several possibilities First, if the company set up the account when the company set up the account, and set the interest rate as the company's control or the owner of the company's assets, then the interest rate can freely control the money in the account. But I think it's basically impossible. As the former Chinese richest woman, Zhong Qinghou was the one who killed the winner in the wild age. He could not not understand humanity. As long as he understands humanity, he could not give the right to leave the inheritance of his own children to the only daughter of the husband. According to many media reports, Zhong Fuli is a very strong and partial woman. She has repeatedly forced Zhong Qinghou to agree to her request through the jade stone. So I think, it is impossible for China's future to give him the right to invest in the key account. The second possibility is that China's future has set certain conditions in the trust fund. Do you remember? I said before, as long as the law allows and can be implemented, the client can set any conditions. There are many possibilities. For example, when China's company is in need of money, the owner of Waha Ha Group has the right to use the funds in the account. Now China's company is the owner of Waha Ha Group. In what situation is the money needed? If the money is not enough in the agreement, it is easy to be collected. The $1.1 million that was transferred is currently being used to pay the fine for the purchase of Vietnamese company equipment and provide a corresponding receipt. But what is even more surprising is that the lawyer of Zhong Fuli now claims that the $1.8 billion belongs to the overseas expansion reserve fund of Waha Group is not a trust fund at all. Wow, that's pretty explosive. 在鍾富力團隊給香港法院提交的材料當中有一份鍾慶厚在2020年設立的遺囑鍾富力聲稱他父親在遺囑中明確表達了要把境外的全部資產留給他一個人所以我認為還有這麼一個可能性也是我認為最大可能的一個場景 That is, in the idea of the post-Memorial, he has left 21 billion dollars to three married women through the trust fund. Then all the remaining assets in the sea, of course, is left to the only daughter, Zhong Fuli, who can be mentioned on the stage. Originally, all the assets in the trust fund are completely separated from the post-Memorial itself. So the sentence in the post-Memorial will leave all the assets in the outside world to Zhong Fuli alone. There is no problem. In this way, Zhong Jinghou had already arranged it perfectly. A bowl of water was poured out. All the children were well cared for. But Zhong Jinghou and his team are very close. When Zhong Jinghou left, the structure of the trust fund had not been completed yet. the money is still in the account of the account number When that sentence leave all the assets outside the country to the Chinese rich the one-person currency is effective It is equivalent to all the rights of the account number and control rights also handed over to the Chinese rich So the Chinese rich can now freely use the money on the account number Even directly announced that the 18 billion has nothing to do with family property This is the most likely situation I think As for which party will win, I will not predict if there is not enough information. If this is the case as I guessed, then the plaintiff needs to prove that the intention of setting up the Hui Feng account after the mid-June But without clear proof, it is very difficult to prove the intention. This is my analysis of this estate dispute What can we learn from this after we continue to pay attention to the progress of this matter? First, it is very difficult for rich people to protect and inherit wealth Second, even for the top rich people, they have to pay the price for the lack of knowledge. A wise man has a right to be a wise man. Of course, I don't think I'm better than Zhong Qinghou. But I think the team he hired to set up the trust fund and arrange the will seems not professional enough. All the time, the reputation of the post-Memorial is extremely low He told the reporter that his own life expenses per year are less than RMB 50,000 RMB 50,000 may be exaggerated But don't think he has an affair Or left a large sum of assets to his children It means that his low-paying style must be fake In Chinese culture, they are extremely stingy and leave all the money to the descendants to make a comparison Especially the entrepreneurs of the time after the Middle Ages came from extreme poverty Many of them, even if they had money later but the stinginess and cost consciousness have deeply engraved their instinct As you know, lawyers and accounting experts in Hong Kong, USA and Singapore are very expensive Especially the most famous locks in the world I can imagine that after the Mid-Autumn Festival, things are not complicated, there is no need to spend too much money to consider Instead of using the world's top locks, choose the lower cost domestic locks or small locks Even hand over the legal or secret books of your own enterprise to deal with related issues According to the court documents of the plaintiff, Zhong Qinghou is entrusted to the subordinate of the company to establish Li Anxin Tuo. I guess there is no professional Li Anxin Tuo architect or foreign legal consultant involved in this. So, maybe he is not familiar with the Li Anxin Tuo operation model, or slightly neglected a detail, which leads to a hole in the entire structure. So it caused today's result. 我自己在生活中的原則永遠都是讓專業的人來做專業的事有些錢真的不能省中進後要是全下有知看到了自己的子女們將要在未來很長的一段時間內陷入殘酷的遺產爭奪當中必定感到深深的遺憾和懊悔 That's all for today Follow Lao Zhou While eating melon You can also learn useful knowledge What is the fun? Peng Mei is right, the experiment is not See you next time