I'm Vanessa Van Edwards. I'm a behavioral 
researcher and best-selling author. My books,  
Captivate and Cues teach people the 97 signals 
to be charismatic. I also teach communication at  
Harvard University and have online courses for 
smart people who want to learn social skills.  
Today on Big Think, I'm going to be talking 
about how to make a great first impression,  
how to create a memorable presence, 
and how to communicate with influence.
Chapter one, how to make a great first impression.
A first impression is so important for 
every interaction. It's the foundation  
for a good interaction. If you can nail your 
first impression in those first few seconds,  
everything in the interaction becomes easier. On 
the other hand, if you make an awkward or a bad or  
a disengaged first impression, everything about 
your connection becomes harder. Those first few  
seconds, you're trying to establish two things: 
presence and trust. The clearer you can signal  
your presence as memorable and effective, the 
easier your interaction will be. A big myth about  
first impressions is that your first impression 
happens the moment you start talking. I hate to be  
the bearer of bad news, but your first impression 
happens the moment someone first sees you. That  
means you only have a few seconds, sometimes less 
than a second to form that foundation of trust  
that you need for an entire interaction. The big 
question is what is presence? There's foundational  
research from Dr. Susan Fisk that looks at how 
we connect with others. There are two essential  
elements for presence. First, warmth. This is your 
trust, your likability, your openness. But second,  
just as important, is your competence. That's your 
effectiveness, your capability, your productivity.  
When we first meet someone, we're trying to 
very quickly decide how warm are you and how  
competent are you? Specifically, as humans, 
we're trying to answer two basic questions.  
Can I trust you? Warmth. And can I rely on you? 
Competence. People with an incredible presence,  
a memorable presence, are very quickly trying 
to answer those two questions. And for you,  
the faster you can answer those two questions, 
you can trust me, you can rely on me, the more  
memorable and effective your presence is. When 
I first read this research and saw this amazing,  
basically a formula for presence on warmth 
and competence, there was one part of the  
research that made me take pause and we have to 
mention it here. This is not your actual warmth  
and competence. It's your perceived warmth and 
competence. Meaning, you can be the smartest,  
most trustworthy person in the room, but if you're 
not clearly signaling that warmth and competence,  
people will not believe it. I think this is the 
most important aspect of presence. If you are  
showing up to your interactions authentically 
trustworthy, which I hope you are, and knowing  
your stuff, we have to clearly signal that with 
warmth and competence for people to believe in  
our presence. The goal is not to fake confidence. 
It's to align your inner intention with your outer  
expression. The question is, how do we read 
someone's warmth and competence? It all comes  
down to our cues. Q's are the subtle but powerful 
social signals humans send to each other. There  
are actually four channels of cues. First, our 
words. This is the channel we use the most. Yes,  
our words communicate our ideas, but actually 
the words we use also signal our warmth and  
competence. The second channel is our non-verbal. 
So our body language, our facial expressions,  
our gestures. These also signal trust, warmth 
and competence, reliability or knowledge. The  
third channel is voice or vocal tonality. This is 
our volume, our pace, our cadence. How we say our  
words matters just as much as what we say. And the 
last the smallest channel is our ornaments. So the  
colors we wear, the jewelry, what's behind 
us in our background, what's on our desk,  
the props we're holding in our profile photos. 
that also can signal warmth and competence. I  
like to split cues up into two buckets, positive 
and negative. Positive cues stimulate connection  
and engagement. They are crucial to a great first 
impression. The second bucket, negative cues.  
These signal disinterest, discomfort, anxiety. 
They begin to create difficult or frictionfilled  
interactions. And what most people don't realize 
about cues is there's a cycle. In this way,  
we often decode cues in social settings. So we'll 
walk into a a meeting or walk into a room and we  
decode the room. We read the room. We want to see 
what cues are being sent to us. Do people like us?  
Are they positive cues or do people not like us? 
Are they negative cues? And this is the second  
part of the cycle. Now after we decode a cue, 
we internalize it. If someone just has sent us  
a cue of social rejection, our body goes, "Uh-oh, 
I'm not safe." And it begins to do the last part  
of the cycle, which is encoding. That's sending 
social signals back. To explain how cues work,  
I like to think of a study that changed the way 
that I think about social signals. In this study,  
they brought people into their lab and they had 
them walk into a room of actors. The actors were  
instructed to send the participant a cue of 
social rejection. A cue of social rejection is  
very negative. It could be an eye roll. It could 
be a scoff. It's something that's designed to make  
us feel like we don't belong. What they found 
was when the participant saw the cue of social  
rejection, their own field of vision increased. 
Their pupils dilated so they could see more of the  
environment. Why? This is the Q cycle in action. 
They decoded a negative Q. They internalized it.  
Uh-oh, I'm not safe. And then they began to encode 
back nervousness and anxiety. What's critical to  
a first impression is showing up, encoding the 
right cues, sending social signals of warmth and  
competence which hopefully others will internalize 
as I can rely and trust this person and may send  
warmth and competence signals back to us. This 
is the basis of all great social connections  
especially at work. We are very attuned to people 
who are sending us positive cues, warmth and  
competence. So we can feel ah I'm in good hands. I 
can rely on this person. We also want to make sure  
that we are spotting the correct negative cues so 
we can disengage them or disarm them. Can we also  
debunk a myth here which is the Albert Mehrabian 
study that 93% of our communication is non-verbal.  
That study was overgeneralized and unable to 
be repeated. Which means that yes, a lot of our  
communication is non-verbal, but it's very hard to 
pinpoint exactly how much. Even Mehrabian himself  
cautioned against using this study too much and in 
every context. We do know that we often as humans  
look to non-verbal signals to see authenticity. 
So for example, if I were to say to you, hey,  
I'm so happy to see you. You are more likely to 
believe my non-verbal over my words. In this way,  
we know that non-verbal makes up a critical amount 
of our communication and it should not be ignored.  
The goal in every interaction is to make our cues 
purposeful so that we are sending signals that put  
people at ease, that make them feel that they're 
in the right hand and they can actually open up  
to connect with you. Also, if we're purposeful 
and intentional with our cues, it puts us in the  
driver's seat. It makes us feel intentional and in 
control, which is the back door into confidence.  
The next question that we have to answer is, what 
do we do if someone sends us a negative cue? How  
do we stop it from hijacking our emotions? How do 
we make sure that we're internalizing it and not  
letting us throw us off our game? Luckily, there 
is amazing research from Dr. Matthew Lieberman at  
UCLA. He devised a very interesting experiment. 
He brought people into his lab and he put them  
in fMRIs, scanned their brain, and he showed them 
pictures of fearful and angry faces. What he found  
is that when people were in the scanner and they 
saw the picture of a fearful or angry face, they  
in fact caught the emotion, that part of their 
amygdala that is very fear-based also lit up.  
In this way, emotions are contagious. If we see 
someone show us an angry face or a scared face,  
we catch that anger or fear. But here's the best 
part. When he taught them to say or label anger  
fear, it disengaged the amygdala. It made it so 
that those participants no longer felt angry and  
afraid. In this way, learning how to label cues 
is super empowering. It's the only way that we  
can stop that hijacking process. The first cue 
I want to teach you is called a punctuator. So,  
a punctuator is a habitual cue that someone 
uses. For example, you might have someone  
who punctuates with a surprise micro-expression. 
That's when someone widens their eyes and opens  
their mouth. For them, they might be when they're 
curious, when they're happy. That would not mean  
they are constantly surprised. Everyone in your 
life probably has a punctuator they use out of  
habit. You probably have one as well. Before I 
teach you what all the cues mean, it's important  
to understand first what your punctuator is. A 
really easy way to do this is to watch a video  
of yourself, maybe a previous meeting recording, 
and watch yourself on silent. What non-verbal cue  
are you doing with your face or your hands or your 
body that you do out of habit? Same thing with the  
people you work with or the people in your life. 
What are they punctuating with? For them, that is  
their non-verbal habit. First, let's talk about 
my favorite warmth cues in a first impression.  
What happens when you first see someone? You 
typically reach out for a handshake, a cheek kiss,  
a fist bump, a high five, a hug, a side hug, but 
not those. This is your human to human instinct  
to reach out and touch. Now, touch has a lot of 
different meanings around the world, but what  
we do know is when one human touches another, 
we produce a little chemical called oxytocin.  
Oxytocin does a lot of things in our body, but 
for our social purposes, it's the chemical of  
connection. The moment you skin-to-skin touch with 
someone, you produce this chemical that is the  
feeling of connection. It makes you feel rapport. 
It makes you feel trust. The reason when we first  
meet someone, we want to touch is we're trying to 
generate the exact chemical we need for warmth.  
So, you have a few options when you first meet 
someone, and I highly recommend picking the one  
that you are most comfortable with that works 
in your culture. If you can reach out for a  
handshake, we typically like one to three pumps 
with a new person. You also might reach out for  
a cheek kiss or a high five. Those are also great 
as long as they're reciprocated. And know that the  
amount of touch increases the amount of oxytocin. 
A hug produces more oxytocin than a handshake. A  
handshake produces more oxytocin than a high five. 
You pick. We talked about the body language. We  
also have to talk about the tonality. Here is the 
biggest mistake people make in a first impression.  
They hold their breath and their hello sounds like 
this. Hello. all the way up here. Little bit of  
vocal fry. When we hold our breath, especially 
on that first word, it makes us sound anxious.  
Low competence. I want you to practice what I 
call a happy hello. This is saying hello on the  
out-breath. And if you genuinely feel happy to see 
someone with a smile. So, here's the difference.  
Nervous hello. This is the one I don't want you 
to do. Hello. Here's the happy hello. Hello.  
Notice how both sound like me, but one is more 
in my natural voice tone. I highly recommend  
before you answer the phone, before you hop on 
a video call, before you walk into the office,  
before you walk into a room, before you walk on 
a date, you say hello on the out-breath. That  
immediately relaxes your vocal cords and make sure 
you're not accidentally hitting that highest end  
of your range. How do we signal competence in 
just a few seconds? This is actually more about  
disarming someone. When we can see someone's palm, 
we know they're not hiding anything from us. It  
literally shows the intention of I'm open to you. 
I could reach out and shake your hands. I could  
acknowledge you. So when you walk on stage, hop on 
video, walk into a room. I want you to do a palm  
flash. Morning. Good to see everyone. Hi everyone. 
Or come on over. Hey, good to see you. Sit with  
me. We love a palm because I think from back from 
our caveman days, it made us feel like someone  
wasn't hiding something from us. See what happens 
when I put my hands behind my back. Imagine if I  
were to teach this entire video not showing my 
hands. Your brain would begin to get distracted  
with the fact that you couldn't see my hands. And 
that's because when we can't see someone's hands,  
we worry about their intention. You're like, 
"What are her hands doing back there?" And the  
moment I bring them back out, you're like, "Ah, I 
can trust her again." You want to have your hands  
visible the moment someone can first see you. 
So, avoid those pockets. I know they're comfy.  
Avoid hiding them in a purse or behind a computer 
or a clipboard. Make sure your hands are visible,  
especially in those first few seconds. One 
of my absolute favorite sweet spot cues,  
it's both warm and competent, is gaze. Now, the 
amount of gaze you make varies from culture to  
culture. But what we do know is that when humans 
make eye contact, we also produce oxytocin. So,  
let's say that you can't shake hands with someone 
or you are in a culture that doesn't touch. Making  
eye contact is also a great way to produce that 
chemical of connection. Now, in Western cultures,  
we like to have eye contact about 60 to 70% of 
the time. And that means you shouldn't be making  
100% eye contact. It's very natural to think and 
look away or look around the room or glance away  
if you're processing something. The key here 
is that you are making eye contact when you are  
making an important point and you're making eye 
contact when they are making an important point.  
Try to hit that 60 to 70% sweet spot if you 
can. So, let's break down where we are in the  
interaction so far. You've entered into a room 
or hopped on video. They see you. You do a palm  
flash. Great. They can trust you. You're making 
gaze. Maybe you reach out and touch, high five,  
handshake, hug. The next thing you want to be 
aware of is fronting. Fronting is angling your  
torso, your toes, your head towards the person 
you're speaking with. We really like to feel like  
we're on parallel lines with someone. So, when 
you're interacting, even if you're in a group,  
if you can angle your body towards the person 
that's speaking, it's like a nonverbal sign of  
respect. It's literally showing, I am physically 
on the same page as you, and therefore,  
we can connect more deeply. Now, let me teach you 
the cue that kills any momentum, any charisma,  
any warmth, any competence. It's blocking. Oh, I 
know. I know. Crossing our arms is so comfortable,  
but the moment I crossed my arms, I probably came 
across as more close-minded to you. Research even  
shows that the longer I close my arms, the 
more closed-minded my own thinking becomes.  
Anti-blocking or opening up your torso, making 
sure you're not blocking any part of your torso,  
is a way of signaling, I literally want to open 
up to you. It also helps your own thinking. So,  
try as much as you can, unless it's cold, 
to make sure that you have your torso open,  
your arms uncrossed. Don't hold a book or a coffee 
mug or a computer or a clipboard in front of your  
body. You want to have your torso open because it 
signals openness to them. Let's talk for a minute  
about nervousness. Look, I'm a recovering awkward 
person and I tend to be a social overthinker. So,  
my nerves can definitely get the best of me. 
And here's what I want you to keep in mind. One,  
you showing up as warm and competent with clear 
signals of trust and effectiveness is contagious.  
It actually helps other people feel warm and 
competent too. So first, why don't you focus  
on putting others at ease? That can help your 
own nervousness. But second, this is not about  
having a perfect first impression. There is no 
such thing. This is not about being perfectly  
charismatic. Again, there is no such thing. What 
we actually want to show is that we are real. We  
are human. An aspect of warmth is vulnerability. 
If you're feeling nervous or anxious or afraid,  
you can say that. It's one of the reasons why I 
say in my first impression, it's literally the  
opening line of my book, I'm a recovering awkward 
person. So, if you're feeling vulnerable or not  
your best, it's okay to say that. That's an aspect 
of warmth. Look, I don't want you to overthink  
these cues. In fact, you can start with one at a 
time. And the best way to do this is actually on  
the phone first. I know this sounds crazy, but 
on the phone, all you have is your voice and  
your words. So, start with just your happy hello, 
right? Practice answering the phone, not hello,  
just hello. Then move your way to video. Video 
touch isn't an option. So, we add gaze. Gaze with  
a camera. And yes, research shows that we can even 
produce oxytocin even through a webcam. You can  
also start with a palm flash. So, now you have 
three cues. Your happy hello, your palm flash,  
and your gaze. Then go to inerson and start 
low pressure. Your best friends, your family.  
Practice that hug with them. See how it feels. 
Get feedback on your handshake. Practice fronting  
with them as they're speaking. That way, we're 
starting off in low pressure settings from phone,  
video, in person, friends first. At first, some of 
these cues might feel a little uncomfortable. It's  
kind of like retraining your muscle memory. But 
here's the good news is after you've tried a queue  
a few times and you get the positive feedback of 
someone opening up to you when you show openness,  
it will begin to feel like habit. Soon after a 
couple of times of trying, it will not feel like  
you even have to think about anti-blocking or 
think about handshake or think about gaze. Go  
through those first few times of discomfort of 
retrying on a queue and trying to activate that  
muscle memory because it will become natural. 
Now, there are so many cues to choose from,  
but these are starter cues. They're the ones that 
have the biggest bang for their buck and hopefully  
will feel natural after you've tried them a couple 
of times. But note, if you try a Q five, 10 times  
and it still doesn't feel natural to you, don't do 
it. I never want you to feel inauthentic. In fact,  
I want you to use cues that feel empowering, 
where you're like, "Yes, I finally feel like  
my most confident self. If it doesn't feel good 
to use it after a few tries, it's not for you."
Chapter 2, how to understand and read people. I 
want to teach you one of the most powerful social  
skills, observation. This is an intentional learn 
skill and it's not passive. Observation is about  
actively reading the room and decoding emotional 
signals that are being sent to you. I think  
learning how to observe and observe well is like a 
secret social superpower. It helps you see hidden  
emotions which then you can spot and untangle, 
but it also helps you see hidden intention,  
maybe what something means behind the words. 
That is such an advantage in social situations,  
business situations, romantic situations. It's a 
tool that you want to have in your tool belt. If  
we're going to talk about observation, we have 
to talk about my three C's. Context, culture,  
and clusters. First, context. Cues can mean 
different things in different settings. And the  
reason why this is important is you always want 
to give someone the benefit of the context doubt.  
For example, let's say that someone seems very 
tired, very disengaged, very disconnected,  
and you're worried. Is it me? Is it something 
that I said? And then you learn that they just  
got off a redeye flight. That is context you need 
to know. That discomfort, that disengagement,  
they're just tired. It has nothing to do with 
you. And what they need is warmth. So, the first  
thing you have to do when you're thinking about 
observation is take in your context. Where are you  
both? Where have they been? What's their emotional 
setting? What's happened before your interaction?  
What's happening during your interaction? If 
you see a negative cue, is there any reason  
why that negative cue could not be about you? 
And how can you help? Second Culture. Many of  
the cues that we are learning are universal. 
For example, when humans make eye contact,  
they produce oxytocin. However, the amount of 
appropriate eye contact varies culture to culture.  
Or touch. When we mutually touch, we produce 
oxytocin. But the kind of touch varies culture  
to culture. This means the second thing you should 
do in observation is take in what your culture  
is doing. This could be your corporate culture. 
What's the typical accepted greeting in your room,  
but also your broader culture. I like to mirror 
and match the culture I'm in. So, I look around  
the room, whether that's a company or a place, and 
I try to say, "What is everyone else doing? Do I  
feel comfortable meeting them where they're at? 
Mirroring and matching their culture. The third  
most important part of observation is clusters. 
This is insurance. You never want to interpret  
one cue alone. For example, let's say that you see 
someone do a nose touch. Now, some research shows  
that a nose touch can signal lying. Yes, they've 
actually researched this that liars tend to touch  
their nose more often. So, you're in a meeting 
and you see someone nose touch. You would not want  
to take that cue alone because what if they're 
just having a bad allergy day. Now, if you see  
that nose touch along with other lie detection 
cues, some shame, some blocking, then you might  
have a red flag. But you would never want to take 
that cue alone. In this way, I like to look for  
clusters of cues, three to five cues to make sure 
that what you think you're seeing is what you're  
actually seeing. Never take one Q alone. Always 
look for the cues around it. The goal here is  
not to create gotcha moments where you're like, 
"Gotcha, I saw a nose touch. Gotcha. I saw that  
you pulled your left ear on that poker play." The 
goal here is to look at the cluster of behavior  
and try to find the emotion or the intention 
behind it. We are looking for behavior patterns.  
Is someone showing overall positive cues, cues 
of warmth and openness? Great. You can likely  
trust them. Is someone sending overall negative 
cues with negative clusters, a lack of warmth, a  
lack of competence? Maybe you want to be careful, 
maybe want to step back, maybe want to do more  
research. The goal in observation is to figure 
out what your next step is, not a gotcha moment.  
A fun exercise you can try is watching a video on 
mute. Bonus points if you can find a meeting that  
was a little bit tense. See what cues you see in 
their face, in their gestures. Are you seeing the  
negative clusters? Then watch it again with the 
sound, tonality, word choice. Does the meaning of  
those cues change? As really excellent observers, 
we need to take in all of the context, all the  
clusters, and remember, keep in mind the culture 
that they're in. When we really like someone,  
we subtly, without even realize it, mirror their 
different channels of communication. They've even  
found that when we really like someone, we 
mirror their vocal tone. So, see if they are  
copying or mimicking your non-verbal cues. That is 
a great sign that you're on to a great connection.  
Mirroring is actually not inauthentic or forced. 
It's a very natural human instinct. Research  
founds that best friends can even sync up their 
breathing rate, their heart rate. It's a natural  
human response to really wanting to get on the 
physiological same page as someone else. And you  
can also think about this in terms of energy. 
So, for example, you might have someone where  
you meet them and they speak a little slower, 
a little lower. They have less expressiveness.  
They're more quiet and warm. Or you might have 
someone who's very high energy and they use lots  
of expressionists and lots of hand gestures and 
high volume. Them mirroring or matching you shows  
them that they want to get on the same page as 
you non-verbbally. One of my other favorite cues  
to look for when you're observing is an eyebrow 
raise. Now, an eyebrow raise across cultures is  
a show of interest. Think about it this way. When 
you're really interested in something or someone,  
your eyebrows raise up to literally get out of 
the way so you can see more and more clearly.  
They found that even infants pay attention to 
faces when they eyebrow raise. I think this  
is really important for both business and social 
settings. In business settings, if you're giving  
a presentation or you're pitching your boss and he 
or she raises their eyebrows at a certain point,  
you know you've just intrigued them. Double 
down on that. In social or romantic settings,  
if you say something and someone suddenly raises 
their eyebrows, that is something that just  
sparked their curiosity, sparked their interest. 
Watch for eyebrow raises, it means you're on the  
right track. How do you know if you're having a 
negative first impression or you're making someone  
uncomfortable or anxious? These are the cues you 
want to observe. First, shame. The shame cue is  
a very interesting cue and it looks like this. 
When someone touches the side of their forehead,  
either side, it's actually a blocking behavior. 
When we don't like something, we want to block it  
out. We can do this with our body by crossing 
our arms. We can also do this by covering our  
eyes or our face. That's called eye blocking. So, 
when someone touches the side of their forehead,  
they're literally trying to say, "I don't want 
to see this. This is making me uncomfortable."  
On prank shows, you always see people go, "Oh, 
no." and cover their face. and that's because  
they're so embarrassed or ashamed. Watch out for 
this cue in conversation. If you just made someone  
uncomfortable, they might suddenly eyeblock. 
Pause right there and try to build rapport. Ask,  
"Everything okay? Are we good?" Any questions 
about that? Let me circle back. Noticing shame is  
part one, but responding to it is second. The best 
gift you can give someone if they're feeling shame  
is giving them permission to share what is making 
them feel uncomfortable so you can understand them  
better. Another negative cue you want to watch 
out for is sudden distancing. So when we like  
something, we want to get closer to it. We lean 
in to smell something better, to hear something  
better, to get closer to it. The opposite happens 
when we don't like something. We distance oursel  
from it. This might happen with a sudden lean 
back. It also might happen with a sudden look  
back. It might happen with uh it might also be 
with a head tilt back. If someone's standing,  
you will literally see them take a physical 
step back. This is the body's innate reaction  
to I don't like this. I want to get away from it. 
I don't want to be associated with it. I want to  
protect myself from it. If you say something and 
someone suddenly scoots back, steps back, take  
note. Something you've said has just turned them 
off and you want to find out exactly what it is.  
There's one more negative cue I want you to listen 
for and it's called the question inflection. The  
question inflection is when you go up at the 
end of your sentence. So instead of a sentence,  
it sounds like a question. Now there are some 
people who habitually question inflection.  
That's the way they speak. For them, that's their 
habit and we should try to get them out of it. But  
for someone who is speaking and then suddenly 
asks like they're not sure, pay attention. The  
question in reflection is often a giveaway of not 
knowing. and sometimes deception. And intuitively,  
we actually know this. Researchers found that when 
humans hear the question inflection accidentally  
used on a statement, our brain goes from listening 
to scrutinizing. It's as if the brain knows,  
"Wait, you're unsure of that. Should I be unsure 
of that, too?" In sales trainings, I hear this  
all the time, where someone asks a number they're 
unsure of. So, it sounds like this. We'd love to  
have your business. we'd love to work with you and 
the cost of the service is $5,000. If you ask your  
number, you are begging people to negotiate with 
you. And if you hear someone ask a number or ask a  
boundary or ask a statement, question it. Decide, 
why is someone asking me this? Are they sure about  
it? This is a great way to protect yourself. 
A lot of us instinctively know some of these  
cues. We have an instinct that if someone leans 
back or steps away from us that they are suddenly  
disengaged. The power of this and why I'm so happy 
you're here is knowing it gives you permission  
to take quick action and to be prepared to take 
that action. If you know that sudden distancing  
or an oddly placed question and reflection could 
signal that something is off, you know to trust  
your gut. So often we doubt our instincts. We 
doubt the red flags that we hear. We doubt the  
alarm bells that are ringing in our head. I 
want you to know, wait, I just saw a cluster,  
a question, inflection, a lean back, and shame. 
I'm stopping and I'm taking control to find out  
what is actually going on. My goal with these cues 
is to listen to your instincts so you know exactly  
what to do when they happen. I know observation 
takes some practice, and I know this better than  
anyone. I used to think that everyone all the time 
was mad at me. I was often misinterpreting neutral  
expressions as negative. So if this is you or 
you find that you're often misinterpreting,  
know that you can hone these skills. They found 
that there's a specific part of our brain,  
it's called the fusopform face area that is used 
to identify facial expressions. And the more you  
practice and activate it, the better that part 
of your brain becomes. So think of observation  
like a muscle. The more you practice this with the 
reps, the easier it will be where you don't even  
have to think about it and your response feels 
more in control where if you spot a negative cue,  
it doesn't rattle you. You know, I got this. I 
know what to say. I know what that meant. And it  
puts you more in control. And the best part of 
observation is it gives you social confidence.
Chapter 3. How to be conversationally present. 
Learning how to become an active listener isn't  
a nice to have. It's a need to have. Listening 
is an active physical emotional behavior,  
not just hearing words. The goal is listening 
to understand, not just listening to reply. I  
have kind of a weird way to think about listening, 
which is I want you to listen loudly. A lot of the  
time, merely just being present isn't enough for 
someone to truly feel heard to feel like they can  
keep opening up. You have to make sure that they 
hear you're listening. This means sending clear  
signals of listening to show them I am here 
with you and I want to deeply understand you.  
The other benefit of active listening is it also 
gives you more intention. If we are going in with  
the intention to listen well, not fake listen. 
It gives you purpose which engages you more in  
the conversation. I listen for cues which makes me 
very engaged but also increases my own presence.  
Uh a trick that I play in my own head is sometimes 
I pretend that I'm about to introduce this person  
on stage because it makes me listen to remember. 
It makes me listen, one for facts that I want to  
keep in the back of my head about the person, but 
second, it makes me listen and ask questions that  
are seeking good nuggets, little tidbits that I 
will want to share to brag and cheer for them.  
Let's talk about how to create a listening 
presence. This is listening loudly, listening  
in a way that makes the other person feel heard 
and understood. My first favorite listening cue  
is leaning. When we like something, we want to get 
closer to it. Leaning is kind of like a non-verbal  
bold or a non-verbal highlighter. When you lean 
in to someone else as they speak, you're like  
highlighting their words for them. You're saying, 
"I like this so much. I want to get closer to it."  
You can also lean as you speak to nonverbally 
bold or highlight your important point. So,  
you can watch for the lean to decode interest 
or engagement. You can also encode or show the  
lean to show someone that you are so interested 
you want to lean into them. Next, head behavior  
is really important for listening. And that is 
because as we're deep listening, we're probably  
having a deep discussion and we're very attuned to 
someone's face and head movement. I want to teach  
you the slow triple nod. The slow triple nod looks 
like this. Mhm. Mhm. Research has found that when  
you do a slow triple nod, the other person speaks 
67% longer. It's kind of like a non-verbal dot dot  
dot. It's saying, "I agree. Tell me more. open 
up. Now, there's a cultural note here. In India,  
Bulgaria, and Pakistan, nodding means something 
slightly different, but outside of those cultures,  
we like a vertical nod to show affirmation. 
Now, be careful. Please don't nod too much.  
Over nodding is called bobbleheading. And if you 
are in your meetings over and over again nodding,  
nodding or on your dates nodding too much, it 
is actually too high in warmth. It takes away  
from your competence. You want to use a nod like 
a highlighter. You wouldn't highlight the entire  
page of text, or else nothing stands out. Only 
use a slow triple nod when you actually want  
to emphasize agreement or curiosity. One other 
note on the nod is the speed of your nod. Ah,  
non-verbal cues are so nuanced. A slow triple nod 
shows engagement. Watch. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. A  
fast triple nod shows impatience. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. 
So, be careful not to do a fast nod unless you  
want someone to speed up. What if you nod too much 
or you want another option for showing listening?  
I love the head tilt. So, universally across 
cultures, when we want to hear something better,  
we tilt our head to expose our ear as if 
saying, "Tell me more." We also love when  
our pets do this. It makes us feel like they're 
listening to us. So, if you are on mute on a  
video call or you're listening to someone and 
you want to show you are actively listening,  
you can literally tilt your head to the side to 
show I'm actively engaged. Research has actually  
found that if you have bad news to deliver, if you 
deliver it with a head tilt, it softens the blow.  
It literally shows, I know this is bad news, but 
I'm here to listen to your feedback. Use the head  
tilt as often as you can. Beware of the chin jut. 
A chin jut is actually a sign of aggression, uh,  
invasiveness, sort of anger. So, be careful. 
If you say something and someone goes, "M,  
I don't think so." You might have just triggered a 
little bit of anger. Back up. Build some rapport.  
Ask questions. Also, be careful if you wear 
glasses. Don't accidentally do what I lovingly  
call the judge duty. That's peering over your 
glasses at someone. It can accidentally come  
across as judgmental. You're better off taking 
off your glasses to see someone or looking  
straight through with that gaze. There are two 
big barriers we face with listening. First,  
our body. This all comes down to self soothing 
gestures or what the fancy scientists like to  
call pacification gestures. A comfort gesture or 
self soothing gesture is when we rub or move or  
have anxious movement to try to calm ourselves 
down or pacify ourselves or soo ourselves. It's  
actually a leftover from when we were babies. When 
we were babies, we were upset. Our parents often  
gave us a pacifier. So, we sucked on a pacifier or 
sucked on our thumb or they would rub our back or  
rub our head to calm us down. Still, as adults, 
if we are feeling anxious or nervous, we might  
rub our own arms or rub the back of our neck or 
crack our knuckles as if trying to calm ourselves  
down or pacify our nerves. Here's the problem. The 
research is very clear on this. Oftentimes those  
comfort gestures don't actually calm you down 
and they are a barrier to listening. It makes  
you look nervous which distracts the other person 
and also makes them catch the nervousness. Yes,  
self soothing gestures can be contagious. So in 
this way I want you to think about self soothing  
gestures in two ways. One, if you see someone 
else self soothing or anxiously rubbing or  
ringing their hands, take a note that they might 
be nervous and try to soo them. Tell them they're  
good. They can trust you. They can open up to 
you. Go into more rapport building behavior to  
help them feel more comfortable. Second, if you 
notice yourself doing those comfort gestures, you  
might try a displacement tactic. I always hated 
when someone told me to stop fidgeting cuz it's  
almost impossible to just stop fidgeting. Instead, 
I want you to displace the anxiety. Displacement  
tactics are when you replace the comfort gesture 
with an anchoring behavior. So, this could be  
um pinching your thumb and your forefinger 
together. That kind of activation puts all  
of your anxious energy into that and that's not 
very visible, only you can feel it. Or it could be  
um having a coffee mug or a clicker or a pen that 
you hold and you grip it to try to displace that  
anxiety into the pen or the mug or whatever you're 
holding. Now, context is very important here.  
Self soothing gestures often mean nervousness, but 
in romantic settings, some self soothing gestures  
can be flirtation. For example, if someone is 
giving a big presentation and fiddling with their  
hair or touching their earring, that could be a 
cluster with other anxiety cues. But if you're  
on a date with someone and someone is tucking 
their hair behind their ear or playing with their  
jewelry, it could be a pining gesture. And pining 
self-touch is a sign of flirtation. Always look  
for context and clusters. The second barrier to 
listening is in our face. Our face shows so much  
of our emotion. And one thing I want you to be 
aware of is what I call resting bothered face or  
RBF. Resting bothered face is what your face looks 
while you are listening. Some of us have facial  
expressions or a face at rest that looks tired or 
sad or angry. even when you don't feel tired or  
sad or angry. For example, people always ask me, 
"Are you okay?" even when I'm just listening. And  
that's because my mouth tends to have a downward 
inflection. So, if I have my mouth at rest,  
it actually is an upside down U. This is part of 
a microp expression of sadness. All this comes  
down to the universal facial expressions. Now, 
research is very interesting on universal facial  
expressions. The jury is still out on how much 
of our expressions are universal. But what we  
do know is that there are certain reactions we 
have different emotions. When we're surprised,  
we tend to widen and open our face. When we're 
angry, we tend to harden our lower lids and press  
our lips together into a hard line. When we're 
afraid, we tend to widen our eyes and take in  
a deep breath. If your face at rest looks like a 
negative emotion, people will assume that you are  
listening with that negative emotion. You want to 
be aware of what your face looks like at rest. So,  
what I highly recommend is next time you're on a 
video call, take a look at your face, relax it,  
and see, do you activate any part of your face? 
Are your corners of your mouth pointed down? Are  
you accidentally activating those two vertical 
lines between your eyebrow? Are you widening your  
eyes and listening with a little bit of fear eyes? 
This is what's accidentally coming across in your  
listening. It's very hard to fix our resting 
face, but we can be aware of it. For example,  
I know that people tend to think that I'm sad 
even when I'm not. So, I use extra warmth cues,  
especially in that first impression. I say, "Oh, 
I'm so happy to be here. I've been so looking  
forward to this. What a pleasure to finally meet 
you." Those verbal warmth cues counteract my  
resting face so they know that I'm not actually 
sad. I know these comfort gestures can be very  
hard habits to break. We've literally been doing 
them our whole lives and we don't realize they're  
taking away from our charisma. So, a couple 
other tips for you. If you're a suer or a pacer,  
you can try to lean in to ground yourself or lean 
back. I also will sometimes pace the stage. So,  
sometimes I'll ask for a high bar table or a 
podium to lean my elbow on to anchor me. So,  
look for anchors in your environment. Can you 
lean in or lean forward to lean on a desk? Can you  
lean to the side on a podium or a table that can 
anchor your comfort gestures? And don't forget,  
you can set yourself up for success. Wear 
clothing or jewelry. Have hairstyles that  
don't require comfort gestures. For example, I 
have a haircut that stays pretty still because I  
have the tendency to touch my hair. I am also very 
careful with the jewelry and the earrings that I  
wear to make sure that they're not making noise 
and I'm not tempted to adjust them. I also try  
not to wear outfits with pockets because I had the 
tendency to use a comfort gesture of putting my  
hands in my pockets. Set yourself up for success 
with knowing what you're wearing and how you're  
accessorizing yourself to try to make sure you're 
not too tempted to comfort gesture with what  
you're wearing. I think there are two mental hacks 
when it comes to active listening. The first,  
as we've been talking about, is our non-verbal 
cues. Watching theirs, responding with ours. But  
the second is your mindset. is your mindset to 
build a connection with this person. If you're  
listening for verbal cues, answers that you can 
bring up again, you're listening to remember. I  
find if I'm bored or if I'm disengaged, it means 
I'm not listening to try to remember for my future  
conversations. While you're listening to someone, 
think, what could I bring up that's going to light  
them up next time I talk to them? What could I 
check in with them about over text or over email?  
What could I ask them about next time we see each 
other? anything that's lighting them up where they  
have a lot of positive clusters, that's what you 
want to bring up next time. And that listening  
to remember will make you an active listener. You 
know, I love the old adage, you have one mouth and  
two ears, you should listen twice as much as you 
talk. But there are good opportunities to talk.  
And I think those are called capitalization. 
Capitalization is when you take what someone  
else is saying and you capitalize it or make it 
bigger. So, if someone is sharing a story about  
hope and you have something to add to that to make 
it bigger or better and contribute to their story,  
say it. If they're talking about something that 
makes them sad or upset and you have something  
that could help them with that sadness or that 
upset, say it. Your goal is to capitalize on the  
emotion that they are trying to give you. That's 
showing them not only am I listening to you,  
I actually want to be additive. I want to make it 
bigger. I want to make it better. And that's the  
perfect way to gauge how much you should say back. 
The biggest warning sign that listening is going  
off track is if they are not asking you questions 
back. If you're saying something and they're  
trying to jump in with what they say or they 
aren't asking follow-up questions, it might mean  
that you're misaligned. I would take more time to 
listen and try to attune to what they are trying  
to say until they start asking you questions back. 
My favorite question is, "What do you think about  
that?" If they start asking for your opinion, you 
know it's your good turn to speak. Now, let's say  
you're talking and they never ask you a question 
back even though you are actively listening. This  
is called a conversational narcissist. It's 
someone who loves to hear themselves talk and  
doesn't care what you have to say. That's 
a sign that this might not be your person.
Chapter 4, the psychology of power and engagement. 
One of the most important aspects of connection is  
how to show up with power as well as engagement. 
If we have power and confidence in our message,  
but also we know how to engage someone with it, we 
have the ultimate social skill. All of my students  
are smart and talented, but for some reason they 
are overlooked or underestimated or interrupted.  
And my big goal for them is that they have power. 
They have confidence in their ideas. They're just  
not sure how to show it. And so my goal is to 
teach you how do you showcase and speak about your  
authentic smarts, your authentic talent with power 
so people listen, and how do you make sure you  
engage someone so they're hearing the words you 
say without you having to be loud. I am assuming  
that you have authentic competence that you feel 
confident in what you're saying. If you learn  
these cues and you feel inauthentic as you deliver 
them, if you don't actually feel confident in your  
material, please go get confident first. Read up, 
practice, do your preparation, and then use these  
cues to deliver it. You cannot fake confidence for 
very long. People will find you out. So, step one,  
make sure you're prepared. Make sure you actually 
have genuine, authentic confidence. And two, use  
these cues to deliver your message. Anytime you're 
sharing your idea or a boundary or a perspective,  
I want to make sure you are delivering it with 
confidence and power. For example, maybe you have  
to deliver constructive criticism. Maybe you have 
to set a boundary. Maybe you have to negotiate for  
your salary. Maybe you're in an interview. Maybe 
you have to deliver bad news to a client. Maybe  
you have to tell your kids a new rule in the 
house. All of these should be delivered with  
power and competence. Otherwise, they will not 
be heard. We like to be around people who are  
clear and confident in their message. Remember, 
confidence is contagious. The reason we like to  
be around people who know their stuff is we want 
to catch their confidence. So, you delivering your  
message with power and authenticity makes people 
feel like, "Yes, I can trust and rely on this  
person." I want to teach you my favorite power 
cues. So power cues are the non-verbal, vocal,  
and tonal signals that powerful people use to 
signal you should listen to me. You should listen  
to this. The first power cue you might not think 
about, but it's our volume. Powerful people are  
very in control of how they are delivering their 
message. And volume signals control. When you're  
into something or excited about something, you can 
use a higher volume. We love people who deliver  
in an excited, powerful volume. But if you're 
sharing something more private, more personal,  
if you want people to lean in, you can actually 
use a lower volume. We like a dynamic volume. We  
like people who vary between the two. Especially 
because sometimes we are excited about something,  
but sometimes we want to share something a 
little more private and personal. Get control  
of your volume and be purposeful with it. If 
you have a powerful idea or a boundary or you  
want to share a story, think about where am I 
excited and passionate? High volume. And where  
do I want to bring people in? Where do I want 
to keep something more covert, more private,  
lower your volume? You being in control of how you 
deliver. What do powerful, confident people look  
like? They look like winners. Researchers from the 
University of British Columbia studied athletes  
across cultures and they found that around the 
world winning athletes make the same posture.  
They take up space. They typically tilt their head 
towards the sky. They have lots of space between  
their arms and their torso. They typically roll 
their shoulders down and back. This is a signal  
of wanting to take up space. When we feel pride, 
we want to claim our space. We want to be noticed.  
We are open to the world. We see this as winning 
posture, as expansive posture. And there are a  
couple of weird measurements I want you to think 
about here. First is the distance between your  
ear and your shoulder. I know it's a weird one, 
but watch this. If I were to deliver this entire  
video with very little space between my ears 
and my shoulder, you would see me as lacking  
confidence. It would even be hard for me to 
deliver my message with volume. And the moment  
I roll my shoulders down, the more confident 
I look. And that's because I'm not trying to  
protect my neck. I want you to try to maximize 
distance between your ear and your shoulder,  
especially on video calls, especially when someone 
can only see the top half of your body. Also,  
check your profile pictures. Make sure you're 
not accidentally doing this or this. It signals  
low confidence. The other distance I want you to 
think about is is the distance between your torso  
and your arm. People who are confident, they use 
a lot of gesture. They use a lot of space. they're  
okay claiming their space. If we tuck our arms 
to our sides and tightly pin them to our sides,  
it shows we're trying to protect our trunk 
and that signals low confidence. Susan  
Goldin-Meadow also found that our gestures 
increase comprehension and fluency. Meaning,  
if I use gestures as I'm speaking, so let's say 
I'm talking about a very big idea and I show big,  
that helps you, the listener, see how big 
it is, but it also helps me, the speaker,  
feel how big it is. Gestures create a power 
loop. If you really know what you're saying,  
you can speak on two tracks. You can speak with 
your words. You can also speak with your hands.  
So powerful, competent people are showing, I know 
my stuff so well that I can explain it verbally,  
but I can also explain it non-verbally. Now, I 
have a note here. I love explanatory gestures,  
but I don't like interpretive dance. Use gestures 
like an emphasis or a bold. If you have a really  
small idea, it's no big deal. Say that it's 
small. If you have three different things you  
want to say, point to all three. Don't think 
of it like interpretive dance where every word  
has to have a gesture. Instead, think of your 
gestures as emphasizing an idea that you want  
someone to remember. The last one is the hardest, 
and I'm guilty. I don't do it very well, which is  
pausing. When we're nervous, we tend to speed 
up our rate of speech. confident power people,  
they're okay pausing. If they're running out 
of breath, they'll pause mid-sentence and take  
a breath. Try adding breaths or pauses into your 
speech. Try not to speed up when you're nervous,  
especially when you're explaining an important 
point. Your important point might be hard for  
someone to digest. The slower you explain your 
point, the easier it is for someone to digest.  
If you find yourself using filler words like um 
so, you know, it's probably your brain's need  
to try to take a moment to catch up with its 
own thoughts. This is your opportunity to take  
a pause. Replace filler words with a breathing 
pause. I say a breathing pause because pausing and  
holding your breath is only going to make you look 
nervous versus pausing and taking a short breath  
actually gives you energy back and helps you speak 
with more vocal power. Replace those filler words  
with breathing pauses. Being assertive is not 
enough. We also have to be engaging and the way  
we do this is fighting the desire to be robotic, 
monotone and automatic. And this is a mistake that  
smart people make. Smart people often know their 
stuff so well, they've said it so many times, they  
deliver it in a really monotone way as if they're 
bored with their own content because they've said  
it so many times that it just seems obvious. It is 
critical for you, even if you know your own stuff,  
even if you've said it a million times before, 
to add vocal dynamism. I want you to add vocal  
charisma. This is when you say some things really 
fast and excited, but some things a little slower,  
a little more mystery. You could even share data 
in different ways. I could say the single biggest  
number that you should know is, or I could say, 
the single biggest number that you need to know  
is. Each way, you're adding a little bit more 
interesting vocal variety to listening, and that  
is super engaging for anyone who's listening to 
you. Engagement is all about creating meaningful  
two-way interactions. And I like to think of 
engagement as you are taking the burden as the  
speaker of making your information, your content, 
your idea easy to listen to. Being engaging is a  
gift to your listener. You're saying, "I'm going 
to make this so interesting. I'm going to deliver  
it so well that is easy for you to listen to 
it, adopt it, and remember it." As humans,  
we are always listening for confidence. We don't 
want to listen to people who don't feel confident  
in their own ideas. A lack of confidence can sound 
like vocal shakiness or vocal fry. When we are  
not confident in our ideas when we're anxious, we 
lose breath. We lose volume. And then what happens  
is our voice might get a little bit shaky or a 
little bit creaky or we have what's called vocal  
fry where it sounds like bacon sizzling in a pan. 
All vocal fry is is a lack of air moving through  
your airways. So when you are speaking, you want 
to make sure you have enough breath. Breath gives  
you volume. It helps push air through your vocal 
cords so you deliver it in a steady, constant way.  
Anytime you hear yourself go a little bit higher 
in that wavery voice, take a deep breath and speak  
on the outbreath. Anytime you hear yourself go 
into vocal fry, take a deep breath and speak  
just a little bit louder. I've worked with a lot 
of TED speakers, and TED speakers are brilliant.  
They have great ideas. They've been offered the 
chance of a lifetime sharing their big idea on  
stage. And the number one mistake they make is 
they rehearse out all emotion. They've scripted  
the perfect talk. They have their big idea. They 
have their great slides. and they've practiced it  
over and over again in the mirror and they forget 
how they actually felt when they discovered that  
big idea. They forget how they feel when they're 
going to help someone or deliver their big idea.  
Don't rehearse emotion out of your ideas. 
If you're excited and happy about something,  
sound and look excited and happy. If you're sad 
or devastated about something, show how sad and  
devastated you are about that thing. Don't forget 
to add back your original emotion. Emotions are  
the condiment of speeches. They add flavor. They 
add spice. Share stories that authentically bring  
out your emotion because that's going to help your 
listener remember you and remember your idea. What  
if you're nervous? What if you're like, "Vanessa, 
I really want to sound vocally confident. I really  
want to share emotion, but I'm afraid." I have an 
answer for you. Channel your most charismatic role  
model. They actually asked students to do this in 
a research experiment. They asked them to channel  
a charismatic speaker and get on stage and deliver 
a talk. They found that the students who were  
asked to channel someone else were able to tap 
into their own power, their own confidence. So  
think about the most charismatic person you know, 
your role model. How would they share this idea?  
How would they cheer you on? It's okay to channel 
their emotion as yours. The last finishing touch  
on your charisma, on your presence, on your power, 
on your engagement are the ornaments you wear,  
the ornaments on your desk, the ornaments you hold 
in your profile pictures or in your backgrounds. I  
want you to be purposeful with your ornaments 
and think about what does someone think about  
when they see that ornament. You could almost 
think of them as props. So, for example, if you  
want to signal high power or high competence, you 
could show your degrees behind you or you could  
hold your diploma or you could have a profile 
picture showing your certification. If you want to  
come across as more warm, more approachable, you 
could have pictures on your desk of your family,  
of your friends, of your pets. You could have 
relics from your travels behind you. You could  
have heartwarming quotes behind you in your 
background. I want you to be purposeful with  
the kind of signals you're sending. Every prop you 
have is sending a signal. Make sure it's the one  
that you want. Keep in mind, I don't want you to 
activate all these cues at once. You can end up  
like a body language Frankenstein. Gestures, 
fronting, broad, nodding, vocal channeling,  
charisma. I would rather you pick one Q at a time 
and work on it until it feels natural. Pick the  
queue that sounds the most exciting to you or that 
you already do naturally, but you just want to  
dial up. Then do one Q at a time. Set a reminder 
in your phone that the beginning of every week,  
you're going to try one new power cue or one no 
engagement cue. Remember, these cues are a gift  
for you. They make you more impactful, but they're 
also a gift for your listener. They make you a  
pleasure to interact with, a pleasure to listen 
to, easy to be with. The easier your message  
is to digest, the more memorable you become. 
Investing in learning the art of communication  
pays off in every area of your life. If you're 
an incredible communicator, people listen to you.  
they take you seriously, your potential is seen. 
That starts with making a great first impression,  
showing up as warm and competent. Then it's about 
being an incredible listener and observing other  
people's cues, reading the room correctly, and 
showing your listening by listening loudly,  
by making people feel heard. And lastly, we can 
show that we know our stuff, that we're powerful  
and competent and capable by also being engaging 
by showing someone that we're willing to invest  
in our message, that we become easy to listen 
to. If we do all of these things, we become a  
pleasure to be with. We make better connections. 
We're able to build community and connection  
with people who matter to us, whether they're 
new in our life, whether we work with them,  
whether we're friends with them, whether we're 
in love with them. And that gives back so much  
to us. I think that knowing how to truly connect 
and communicate is what makes life worth living.
Want [music] to support the 
channel? Join the Big Think  
members community where you get 
access to videos early and free.