Today, today we're going to get on the last few talk. The Chinese people have a few words, so far, "No, 'Haw nor'Suh Nore'U-Soo-Nor-S-S-S-Kee-Gue. There are, "Colns' this old old old old old old old old old old old old old old old old old old. The truth is this is the old. The old is not yet yet the old's right. The good old is not going to be 'Lu-Gu'O'Ir'Rourn. He said this word of the 'Lu A.Gun, it is from now, 2,509 years. To that year, Kongs had been left the whole-u-Lie-Goo-Lie-Lie-Goo-Lie-Core He said, those are no, no one of no, can say it's based on his his own his own their own and he got to be able to be the country, nor the country choose people, in in the in five hundred not by the one of the untytonged to social go, the right-of-the-court of the right-li-in-go, also to be at least-the-sin-go, the whole-shell the Chinese-con, the people who are also also cancite, say, Liang-Chin, and so much, but actually they've been not there's not the times, they've been the same, Now, China, people get the time is in the west of the government, but it's the long, it's about, Mao's- time, back, and they're not, it's been not by stowed, is by the real-shaned and be so much, and then, it's--certain--e-b, and-as--as-e-e-law, people, you've got, and, it's-e-the-thew- people, Wussu, of which fern emin to the other countries, and especially the American, from the 1970 mid-N-Guen-Gent flow, far-ent-to-do to the how-hout-dand. We're living in this world is like to Kohn-Sew time, but many many people are still is a non-law people, people, people, and I'm The party is using this state, yon them. But, now can't information, if it's being used to be yue know, there's no, can't completely with the world, and it can't say, you mean, you mean, and you know, you know, that's people, just can't make people, and you In the previous show, I had said a thing is that people who people who people who see how they their way actually is all-o-dye- people. Many people is every day-all-all- be y'nonged and wait-de-be-knot, be shi-naw, and-d-a-k-n-k-k-pent. There are people say, to make money, to change people's way. A person one is because he's because there's there's a change you can't you can't you can't any other and a a need and you need to and you need to and who Although the internet has farmed, but if you're just a little, not only to work it, and it's can get a good thing. And, how come, fangang is something a lot of work, it's not much money. Niel, but the ginaw should be able Every country do need people need to people is can't can't get to people with the quote to be to see to see in any there from this view from this view and can't see quite quite quite clear and The To be used to Seeingly the Sunnilary's suit. The world's people will know where there's new link-ly. This with the American is two different people Just using Kong's words can say, "Mai'Restan's policy is "'What's the people's'noy, "'Such, the people's' "'scian choice, and we used "'we. We used the last few years "'Chiefers' people's "'their national-kind-kind-in-git-wah "'to-souplean to show-min' this way. From 2008 to 2018,000th year, 1,000th century years, then, then came to 10 years. Then-year-kind-kind-man-kind-man-ggy-hra-k, go-go-sson, and choumah-hout, and The Chian-Degraia, truly really really seen a lot from China out of from China, from work, and quite the college and work work work and some some part-to- some-you-all- and then- on-the-est- out-the-reve- On-the- it was a sort-to-ach--ach-figh- and-eat- people-and-e The government to give and cashed and money to give people and provide you and give end-y-law even the super-grade and research and research and group goal make sure just to use money make the in the and get those of the high-we and the job people who have done people We are using Qom's the way it's like a new a key a new to a food, and then make a and then selects the year using and use people to say that's a just a just a big power He can in short time, quickly gather a piece already in the high-wide in the same-of-concue of people, in different in other contexts, in the world, on the run-win-fowel the sum-liened on, to get-gained-eeminged and result. We say this is a suede-nial-the-techews. First, the choice-the-sue is a-sue-the-chew-du-en to-use-teen to. "Beworthy you are "'tow-noyne' "'You need to put up to a certain "'toeathearer, "'favowed a certain-key-beer "'in' at a certain-fing-git-couped "'in' at a certain-siming-couped "'that's a-could-be-an-pied-a-could-could-could "'tack-one-could. "'Thexent-cone-cone-clet-cone. "'Their-cone. You should have first by a one of the country can't and there have this day of on the end up after the board and people through the project all the time the whole people people people and by being being being being a and is a free choice to and the choice of This piece of forest is a large, there's a lot of There's a sub-shawn and down the system. This system's heart-sing, is a form-seek-goed-coe of control-cum-sci-weigh. I want you na-loed I's set-eck-cook-to-cun-cru-tttty-seat in-nate-cuit, all-cue-all-you-court-o-all-cru-cook-all-cru-ccccccccc. We're at we're at our people world people with the people people with people people people people and other people like is a kind of a free land the American money not not not not just but not not exactly He's doing what is it's in the pen sun line of to the land is enough free-o, the climate, enough, enough-e, and how all the people, all the world, and then all the people, and then this is a time, this is a full-to--s-e--s-e--ent-s- For the job-eigning and other work law-gowns, but for those those who have got-sucing people who are the top-gen-the-cure-eas, the top-ecent-the-care, yet-eat, there are very small. For example, many of the people-so-sue-1-A, is get-tru-en-scied-lay-lay-lay- Unuch to the people in America no work in a place, just by his own self's and skill, you can just send in the United to go. This sort of like the world's to give it a clear sign-how. America, it's welcome you take the power to make you, to stay-gue, to this way, your own own you can't be a country to create to do. The American government's not the role not the company which is the way which is the end up to make sure One is by the government to put money, and to make people, which is Kongs' said, the tree, the other one is the government not, it's the way to keep a few high-nigh-e to be able to make sure people, and then the world, and it's king's the king's said, this is the new the new the king's- Kungz said it was, it's not only a new who's choose the one of now we can say we're Kongs see how he king country current is the world and the two people were these two ways in the way This is the "Sew-Scienzhen-nial model though, it's quite short-eas- but its its'e faefei and it's high-eigh and the government's and the these issues decided it is it is 2018 year after, because because of the world and the people and the people and then the people people and then many many back back and then the and and then flew and then "M.O.S.M.O. 'E.O.S.A.S.E.A.R.S.A.R.C.,...theircerns. Human-Scheas'hound. He's the power-sewinged. It's the world's different-go-waran-wareruner. He's not need to the government's true and not sure to the "'Hewerectingly, is in-sensing-like-sue, "'their-sue. This is a sense-term-the-levels. If we're over-key-the-cerns, can't look at the design those people will put in the main question. The people people are people, and if you are people, there's people, there's people, there's, there's, there's the future, there's the future, there a way, Though it's some of some it's a but very really to find in the national in the in those those how people their their their their many are in their and These people are and write how see in the world writing the policy and how have to be in how can't act, while to do and then to use the new day to make them in the the report and they're saying the they're if they're not even that they're making sure why they're doing they're making money and the child to go-offer work-to- work-st-dict- reason why, they're they're not their word-st-sing-e--sing-fee-e-o-s, - – China's a type of-the-gen-yournoying-stermacete, – and then-sheet-bapot-broad-you-specution. Those "Polgaard. Those people, not a long-the-con-dom. Quessleurrown, if those are you guys' and those researchers and leaders first put down the "epo'all-not-the-court-ta-hae. just say if it's as a why are you being why you want to to get a money and the kids than the data than the more than and more can guess the American the people who the truth and general the and the the right and the where that is that they the they can't and they're can't and the people that you and they're than This also I think of the one's And it's It's a word, To see one To see what To see what What's Through a People's Through people To work To make Most, most, they're They're in America In the money Because, because the China's people, but their family, their kids, almost all live in America. Other of other, they're other than other, they don't let their kids to go and get their children, and they will be the way way-to-played in China. They know they can they can't spend to get some quick-cheon, but their kids' future is in America. Why would it? I think, every one-wey-fumu-fut-are in the minds of their minds they're more than people more than more than a child's the change, more important is the environment. This is, including the open of the ideas, the world, and the commoner of and the future of the A normal person not can't want to their kids in the children in the education by guantrued to be cut into being sub-en-s their they're very much and how they is the parents' people, so anyway is from from the policy can or from the kind of the of the choice should-e or so--s-she--mort--mort--all-"t-could--if-if-e- The party can buy a person money to a person and the result, a person and experience and the but not it to be the country and buy it's it and buy it by the whole to be If people's people to China's to become it's a time to turn to it's a he's always will be able for the people and that the way the way is the one of the one, a more a more a more could be a country and And the world is a new thing. A good guy's the type of, it's the state of, this story, in human life, in time, in life, in 20th century, from 100,000 in 191 year, this time, the world, and culture and not in England, or not in America, but in Germany. In short 30 years, in the short 30 years, the number of the Nobel-Irudeau-Giore-Giacs more than than 30 years, whether it's in the way, of the natural-co-chequerque, or is in the world, art, rhetoric, this like, human-wing, Germany, in the world, in the, in the grandfing, the end-fing, but it, but it's, In 1999, 93, Nazi on on-turb, totally changed this each year. In just many years, got-and- forced-e- top-est- world-e to be great-of-e great– China and Einstein, and Norte Norteeman, a few people, the top-e--tlene-e from-todd and from--eastern--the-c-cund- the world, and the people, and-n-cuh- people. They left because because they're because they were able to they're not being the people and we're they're not their own their right and then their country used. Degu's this time uncied people and it's direct dead think the American in the world in the world's under the country This is this This is a story It's a One of the world A lot If you've ever Toeuxing over the world, In other than in China, these years, the time of time's success, and especially to the high-goyerun's the high-koyerunty, other than the good money and good thing, is the important one, is that, the time-day-kind-quand-so and the same-dueckon-sohn and there's the environment so-chromed the founting and many in the high-of-sort-songed people who are working-worked, is to see the difficult, the time-true, but is not-sep. They want to get-to-git, in the truble, in the truptu, in the front-the--sac-n-all- The question is from the future of the future of the future by the people people are people are not all sign-to-bue in the back-the-court in the way their family put out-the- people, they know this is a time-the- time-and- not-the-chorn- they don't know this door they'll know how much and it would at what it will at some because of the one-the-cru--cue-cest-the- reason and One of a career of Huangian's age is so, the keyway front of the point of the key, is we should first by the family and the American in America to be the country and it's a quite-guer and some of the people are you, and then in the American plan to go to country, to work and the education or To their, it is a one of the way of in the country in they can be in better than in the way more than good grander life, the country and all all areas, people, people, people, not there are all people and and always all every year and end would get in and even in even there, it in many in the many much much mower, but and back from the, in the sky as great, will always be always in the green light under the sun many. Many people like this life. Because it's a time-year-to- cost-he-re-heed-the- bad-chin, simply even can see-in-to- people, but it can't get it could get people, and can't get If you have money is enough, the effect is there is but this effect is due to be short-zoned, is the short-sue-dings, the end-uped, the end-and-go-go-to-she-man-thead-long-eat. 2018-year-old, 10-1-0-0-0-3. Go-the-thead-est-chew-n, just to bean-lund-o-o-sort-fonged, even to turn-hue-reg-sha-h-h-lind-tall, this time-jue. the hun-hung-lis-li-lead of people-seye-con-cern, with "Wong-Soo' short-sword" "Govehaw' ""tall'"" "...now' 'own.'" Kong's that way, "Mose simple,' "'Noyal's the other, "'mood, moot can't the nought, "'is-n't-n't-nought-of-sure-sure "'that's just a sure and far-sher, "'heat least a good-do-sign and open-kind "'their-kind. "'The real-personed, you're like free-hound-nial-fey-hound, "'they will use their eyes to watcher, "'with their own own own own own own own "'their-to-pand-fewscented the world.' America, see in the other than logic, is the king's said, you know, the the the the the one, he has seen the power and the way. He has given a system and environment, and that's in the choice. And the core of China, the world, is the tree, the the the the tree. He used to human-weigh setting the, and natural, choose, But, right, now, at the cow, in a no one of the foot on the not even the year, know it just free out, and all, he's and then par-p-e feet, and then they're on the foot on, and this much, it's that's made that not, the and there, it's not, the ch' and the, in, Hecern, not-sum-end-true-down production-end-through-to-do-road, to create free-year. He needs to get a few-day-men's and chie-lid-lid-lid and churn-sehore, should a free-tallonged-scibi-tourn. Ginging-hawahed, and money-and-lund and d'ronly, a lot-chews, dothed true-the-cichang-work. These years, there's years, there's some of the people who've got to some people who are the words, like, say, Hina, Bight-Chun, Yolong, Nye, other, like, in the, say, the three-goe, high-be-en-send-kow, high-been, and all-he-kind, to-bue, all-kind. I'll have a kind. I think they than many many people than many people, than many than, you're, more like, you-li-shing, They don't know, to achieve the year must be able to bellow the people and ferns is, Cao Mung-de Shan-Gal, high-be-ean-send- and-send-send-send-send in China, in China, in China, in America, in America, in the times, it's always hear, the sound the sound, the same than the kong-zid's time-day people's number, not even though found how far and but you have that the know-z-moo, and gaiety and other people, but not as with the people increase of the people on the people's, the kind of ch'ry-gings-lut-to- the hough-too-tut--chie-chach--choo-chee-sach-moo-each-sed--e-s-tall-eck in China, all all all of the all over a under the system, even in the foreign and why why? Why would that's the answer? The answer, the way, all the just that we're not going to all the all the form of all the all the system to know the and that the and I'm The "Tang-Going-Conday to this one-control, and the current-fa-the-Farge and the "What-Guoy-Guanguang is a different two-marser. Why should have this this, yenmy, the "Quayn'te' is to be the "Wehue'hue' 'tete'' "tihullegu'' logic', any "p. 'oo-li-the-tie-the-cuit-the-cuit-the-cuit-the-cuit "'to be seen-cuit' "'p't'-weigh-weigh-weigh-weigh-e." So, a other people or high-goyed of Chinese-en-sac, it's as big-be-ta-lawed, it be not-rored-ta-lo-tank-o-court-cun-crucook-the-couping system, be the control-the-cuncourt-should-clet-stis-clet-teat-teat-hocet-conclet-cern-clet. And the This is the This is the This is The United And it's the It's Because he and the people And yet the people The first It's Can't get you - I'm You have used And so 'of the people and the All right we're One's the One thing's the This channel's people are from China. In the United in America, in America, life in many, work in many, say to be able to say, I'm saying you guys, I'm going to say you're in America in a career and it's great, and you're making sure, you monged to do you monged to Is it is 10 years And the Of course Kind of Quite quote Toe Toe need really And it Or is It's a Now is the Now that's The President Toe China's It's Toe Toe To make Tohurt Tohurt Thee Choumoo Moo Can't Zoe That is 2005-09 years a word time people don't get than than than than than people and I'm than the