Hello, everyone. I'm Xiao Dai. Welcome to the 594th issue of reference information. Continue with the local fiscal topic. A city-level platform in a national demonstration zone recently had its ratings downgraded by domestic rating agencies. The rating agency's operating logic may change. Qingdao Shanghe Holdings, a city-level platform in Jiaozhou, Shandong, began frequent commercial bill default in March last year. From October, there was a public warning. But CITIC Credit, Union Credit and Daxun International, three rating agencies, have maintained the highest grade AAA rating. Until March this year, Shanghe Holdings defaulted on a trust financing of 100 million yuan with Jiaozhou City's office building as collateral. Although the amount is not large, Shanghe Holdings also promised to transfer funds within a few days. But the trust company did not trust the enterprise. It announced on its official account and reported to multiple regulatory authorities, triggering public opinion and regulatory attention. Feeling pressure, the three rating agencies began to act. On April 1, Daxun International announced that Shanghe Holdings had not agreed to a written consent. In the multi-period bond issuance process,擅自引用 Daxun International credit rating results. On the same day, CITIC Credit and Union Credit announced that Shanghe Holdings' main rating was downgraded from AAA to AA+, and the outlook was downgraded from stable to negative. At the same time, Shanghe Holdings decided to terminate its rating cooperation with Union Credit. Qingdao's other company, Qingdao West Coast Public Utilities Group, also terminated its rating cooperation with CITIC Credit. After the rating downgrade, Shanghe Holdings' subsequent financing is expected to suffer a setback. Currently, there are 21 outstanding bonds with a scale of 183. 99 billion yuan, of which private issuance is 133. 99 billion yuan, accounting for 72. 82%. The independence and objectivity of domestic rating agencies have long been criticized. In 2015, when international rating agency S&P downgraded Evergrande Real Estate's rating, the three major rating agencies, CITIC Credit, Daxun and Union Credit, competed with each other and all gave Evergrande an AAA rating. In recent years, regulators have tried to strengthen market constraints and responsibility追究 to change the rating being high, but the effect is minimal. In fierce competition, no one is willing to lower the enterprise's rating and lose market share. In addition, it is also related to the short development time of the bond market and the lack of a truly established high-yield bond market. Enterprises can only obtain high ratings to issue bonds. Now, the policy-oriented aspect is to reduce dependence on foreign ratings. On the other hand, regulatory rules still require investment bonds to have ratings. Investors generally require AA+ or above. Risk capital institutions, even only invest in AAA level, while rating agencies may be accused of not being politically correct if they downgrade ratings, which may harm local financial stability and local government credit. Today, the AAA rating in the market is close to 30%. The Shanghe Holdings incident has made rating being high, warning delays, etc. The issue has become a focus again. The regulatory authorities have called a meeting with major rating agencies twice since April, requiring them to improve the quality of ratings and self-examine for rating being high, malicious low-price competition, etc. And they have also notified multiple cases. It is expected that the rating agencies will hold a self-regulation meeting at the end of April to release self-regulation initiatives. Lin Guoshi has updated his forecast. On April 25, the New Structure Economics Research Center in Anhui University in Hefei held a press conference. Lin Yifu, the director of the New Structure Economics Research Institute at Peking University, said that China will be the last to enter the high-income country ranks. He said that the current threshold for a high-income country is a per capita national income of 13, 935 US dollars. We are only 135 US dollars short. We should be able to cross the threshold by the end of next year and become a high-income country. Per capita national income is the final result of all resident units' income distribution in a certain period of time. It is the sum of all resident units' income distribution. It is based on GDP and deducts foreign investment and labor income in the country, plus the labor income from abroad. It is commonly used to analyze income levels and quality of life. In the 2022 two sessions, Lin Yifu said that China is only one step away from the high-income country standard set by the World Bank. It will definitely become a high-income country by no later than 2025. The threshold for high-income countries is based on the current US dollar. The dollar exchange rate will fluctuate. The margin for error in the calculation may be 2023. It will not be later than 2025. China will definitely become a high-income country. The National Bureau of Statistics announced that in 2025, China's per capita GDP was 99, 665 yuan, at an average annual exchange rate of 13, 953 US dollars. Ren Zeping's team calculated that last year, China's per capita GDP was 13, 970 US dollars, and per capita GNI was 13, 358 US dollars. According to the latest standards set by the World Bank, the threshold for high-income countries is 14, 005 US dollars. Whether we can cross the threshold depends on the July release of the World Bank's new high-income threshold. China has a very high probability of crossing the threshold in the past two years. In February, Lin Yifu also said at the two sessions that by 2035, China's economy will still have a growth potential of 8%. If GDP measures making cake, then GNI measures dividing the cake. According to the National Bureau of Statistics data, in 2024, China's per capita disposable income Gini coefficient was 0. 465, higher than the international warning line of 0. 4, indicating that the gap between the rich and the poor is still large. In addition, there is the challenge of Baumol's cost disease, which is a growth problem pointed out by economist Baumol. In economic development, the costs of stagnant departments such as medical care and education will increase significantly with the improvement of production efficiency. So, the higher the income level, the more people will feel that these important basic services are more difficult to meet, which makes people doubt the meaning of economic growth. Now is the time for the season to change. It is easy to feel a little uncomfortable. Many people will appear in a state of daytime drowsiness and lack of energy, and at night they will not sleep soundly. Before the age of 30, the small belly will become more and more obvious, and they will be teased as middle-aged greasy men. But when asked, everyone is not easy. In order to get a promotion and a raise, working overtime and staying up late is the norm. Socializing and drinking are also unavoidable. These so-called standard requirements for struggle are actually silently overextending the body. Sometimes you think it's just tired, but in fact, the body is already calling for SOS. The liver is handling the burden of dietary fats and alcohol, and the heart is responsible for energy supply and circulation. One is chronically overloaded, and the other is continuously consumed. People are easily to start to decline in their state. So, instead of waiting for the physical indicators to become increasingly difficult to look at, it is better to do some basic maintenance in advance. Here, I recommend the one-day heart care product that I am eating. One day, you may not be familiar with it, but the parent company Bayer should not need me to introduce it. A century-old pharmaceutical company, such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and diclofenac, is from their home. When it comes to products, it is still important to choose a big brand. For example, Bayer, a pharmaceutical company, has strong standards, technology, and qualifications. This heart care product has a purity of 80% or more, which is three to four times that of products on the market. In clinical data, 8 weeks can help stabilize AST, ALT, and other common liver function indicators in physical examinations. The heart is 98% high-purity辅酶Q10. Each two tablets contain 50 mg, which is exactly the daily recommended amount of the Ministry of Health. It can relieve the feeling of heartache and fatigue after staying up late. In addition, there is a complex vitamin C complex to enhance absorption, and it can also strengthen self-protection from the source. So, this one bottle of one-day heart care is equivalent to three bottles of liver protection tablets plus辅酶Q10 plus complex vitamins. Usually, buying such ingredients in this way costs three bottles, which costs hundreds. You have to take five to six pills every day, which is expensive and troublesome. When I ate it, the most obvious change was that I was less tired in the morning and recovered faster. If you are also a long-term working overtime and socializing, or if your physical examination has already begun to show some signs, you might as well try it. Now, it can achieve the effect of heart care at the price of one bottle, saving time, money, and effort. You can buy it from Xiao Dai's top exclusive link. Take advantage of the spring season promotion, the discount is large, and you can get two pieces for half price. Hurry up and stock up. In the first quarter of the employment data, two groups of people's unemployment rates in March showed an abnormal rise. One is the unemployment rate of 25 to 29-year-olds, which reached 7. 7%, the highest since data was available in December 2023. The other is the unemployment rate of foreign agricultural household labor force, which rose to 5. 7%, the highest in the three years since the end of the epidemic. In the first quarter, several core economic indicators were better than expected. GDP grew by 5%, and increased by 1. 3% year-on-year, faster than the previous four quarters. The mismatch between economic growth and employment creation is normal in theory. Several experts interviewed by the Financial Times warned that, in the context of a good macroeconomic backdrop, the youth unemployment rate remains high, indicating that economic growth and employment creation are not consistent. Considering the further changes in technology, we should be wary of the possibility of no employment growth. Mao Yufei, an associate professor at the Labor Economics Department of the Capital University of Economics and Business, said that the 25 to 29-year-old group are mainly former students who have left school. The unemployment rate of 7. 7% indicates that the pressure on youth employment may have spread from recent graduates to former students or high-education groups. Southwest University of Finance and Economics professor Ouyang Jun believes that 16 to 24-year-old young people have just left school and have some unrealistic ideas about employment. But the 25 to 29-year-old workers have been in society for some years and have a deeper understanding of the job market. They will be more practical in choosing a job. The rise in unemployment among these people reflects the deterioration of the youth employment structure. Mao Yufei also analyzed that this group of young job seekers is mainly concentrated in administrative, financial, market, new media, education, and real estate sectors. The competition is fierce, which means that structural unemployment may be more prominent. The Institute of Population and Labor Economics of the Social Sciences and ZhiLian Recruitment, which jointly released the 2025 Human Resources Market Trend Analysis Report, also said that the mismatch between youth employment expectations and market demand is an important manifestation of structural employment contradictions. Feng Shuizhang, the director of the Institute of Economics and Social Sciences at Jilin University, also mentioned that the 25 to 29-year-old group were basically in college during the epidemic or when the labor market was in poor condition. The first job they found was affected by the long-term impact of the epidemic generation. It needs further observation. Ouyang Jun analyzed that the current macroeconomic recovery mainly relies on high-end manufacturing, new energy infrastructure, etc. The main carriers are large-scale enterprises, which are more likely to expand through capital expansion to improve efficiency. The demand for employment creation and labor needs are relatively low. In contrast, traditional industries with more employment in the service and real estate sectors, such as small and medium-sized enterprises, are growing more slowly. He warned that this mismatch between economic growth and employment creation could lead to China facing the risk of no employment growth. When analyzing the United States, people often talk about K-shaped differentiation, AI replacement, and no employment growth. It seems that the world is the same. Manufacturing is a pillar industry of the national economy. Being an industrial worker has always been considered a stable job. But a report jointly released by several labor scholars in recent times shows that flexible employment has shifted from being a supplementary employment method in manufacturing to a key choice for enterprises to standardize. In terms of scale, the total number of flexible workers in China, excluding internet platform workers, is close to 100 million. Among them, the construction industry has the highest flexible employment ratio at 76. 6%, with 44. 496 million people, which is the industry with the highest dependence on flexible employment. The flexible employment ratio in the transportation, warehousing and postal services industry is over 46%, and the penetration rate in the service industry is 22. 15%. The penetration rate of flexible employment in the manufacturing industry is only 14. 73%, but due to the large number of employees, the absolute number exceeded 15 million, making it the second largest reservoir of flexible employment. According to the 7th Census, the number of manufacturing employees in 2020 was 105 million, which means that one-seventh of them are flexible workers. The rapid spread of flexible employment in the manufacturing industry is the result of multiple factors working together, including market demand, cost pressure, labor choices, and institutional constraints. The core driver is production volatility, which is caused by international political situations, global market competition, and domestic policy adjustments, leading to seasonal, cyclical, and sudden fluctuations in orders. It is difficult for enterprises to digest fluctuations through fixed employment models. The 575th issue talked about Guangzhou Zhuyi Village's daily 5600 not finding people, which is exactly this kind. Cost control is an important consideration for enterprises when adopting flexible employment. The net profit of China's manufacturing enterprises has declined for many years. In 2024, the net profit margin of the top 500 manufacturing companies was only 2. 3%, and the cost control pressure on enterprises is very large. The social security contribution for flexible employment accounts for 30% to 40% of the total wages. Flexible employment can help enterprises avoid social security costs, reduce labor costs, and reduce the cost of layoffs. At the same time, the automation upgrade of the manufacturing industry is accelerating, and enterprises are more inclined to adopt flexible employment models in response to the future demand for personnel reduction. The 585th issue talked about BYD's reduction of 100, 000 employees, which is one of these types. China's current labor system design is based on stabilizing labor relations. Labor dispatch is a supplementary employment form, but the proportion of flexible employment in manufacturing is far beyond the legal limit, leading to a mismatch between the system design and reality, and making it more difficult for regulators to monitor. There is also a large number of fake outsourcing and real dispatching, with responsibility for employers, outsourcing agencies, and workers being unclear. The flexible employment workers have low social security coverage and low income stability, making them more likely to be laid off during economic fluctuations, making it difficult for them to find new jobs. The same is true for different wages and multiple intermediaries. This also leads to problems such as back fees, arrears, and wage arrears, which are frequent. Labor disputes and difficulties in labor rights protection make it difficult for workers to protect their rights, and the risk of rights violations is high. It is not uncommon for people to deceive others into drug use, but for police to deceive未成年人 into drug use is a bit scary. Ma Mou, the deputy director of Nanjing Yipai Police Station, was sentenced to five years in prison for deceiving others into drug use. The court ruling shows that to complete the task of investigation and punishment, Ma Mou found social personnel Xu Mou to provide drug-related clues. In January 2024, Xu Mou, through others, recruited six未成年人. Ma Mou gave the e-cigarette with e-cig and paper to Xu Mou. Xu Mou and others in a hotel handed over the e-cigarette to six未成年人 for use. They then contacted Ma Mou to arrest the six未成年人. In April this year, the Liuhua District Court sentenced Ma Mou and three other social personnel to prison terms. In fact, there have been similar cases before. In 2016, the Keng District, Heilongjiang, and the Jilin Provincial Public Security Bureau's Keshan Branch, due to the relatively small number of drug users, ranked last in the Keng District public security system and was repeatedly criticized by the Keng District Public Security Bureau. The branch director, Li Mou, did not complete the task after studying with the members of the team. He stipulated that each of the four units under the branch of the four-to-one system had to complete two fines of 5, 000 yuan and pay a deposit of 10, 000 yuan. If they fail to complete the 10, 000 yuan deposit, they will not be refunded, and the department head will be dismissed. Li Mou also suggested that the police officers could find someone to pretend to be a drug user to complete the task. Some police officers and auxiliary police officers used the method of giving bribes to let non-drug users pretend to be drug users and fabricate drug-related cases. These fake drug addicts were basically relatives of relatives, friends of friends, and acquaintances. It also included Li Mou's sister's grandson. In the end, Li Mou was sentenced to one year and one month. The police officer testified that the branch had fewer drug-related cases because the number of drug users in the Keshan farm was limited, but the number of arrests was low, ranking last. The director, Li Mou, may be transferred, demoted, or punished for other reasons. In 2014, a police officer from a police station in Lanzhou was sentenced to two years and three months for fabricating a drug trafficking case and a theft case with the help of drug users to complete the task. These cases all have the same logic. When the indicator becomes the only standard, law enforcement becomes abnormal. Jimo News commented on Ma Mou's case. What must be paid attention to is why a police station has a drug-related case assessment indicator. What prompted Deputy Director Ma to take the risk? There is no need to respect the facts and be realistic. If the prevention work in the jurisdiction is done well, the case cannot be a fixed value, and it is even less likely to continue to grow. The deputy director of the police station, who knows the law, why did he still risk being investigated for drug-related cases? The indicator was issued by the police, and it was not realistic. After the case occurred, the local authorities did not hold the responsible person accountable. If the data is watered down, it will pass the inspection, which will inevitably cover up the real problem. It requires a full chain of investigation. Perhaps it is because of the upcoming APEC that Shenzhen is particularly concerned about its appearance this year. It was previously criticized for cracking down on electric bicycles, and this month it was again due to smoking bans. The latest incident was when a woman stopped a man from smoking at a bus stop, which escalated into a conflict, and it was reported that the Guangming District needs to establish a joint investigation team. The details of the incident are based on the official announcement. Let's review how Shenzhen became the most strict anti-smoking city. In 2014, the Shenzhen Economic Special Zone's Anti-Smoking Regulations came into effect. In 2019, it was revised to expand the outdoor smoking ban to include the public transportation station building, pedestrian entrances and exits, and the area outside the 5-meter radius of the public transportation station. It also included the outdoor platform and waiting area of public transportation. E-cigarettes are also included in the smoking ban, which is the most strict anti-smoking order in mainland China. In 2025, Shenzhen issued the country's first local standard for the construction of non-smoking areas, which is why it is called the most strict anti-smoking city. In January, the law enforcement detachment of the police station in Bao'an District checked the bus stop of the Bitaotou Metro Station in the Guangming District of the People's Hospital of the West District. They found two men smoking. The law enforcement officers asked the parties to put out the cigarette and informed them that according to the Shenzhen Anti-Smoking Regulations, the bus stop is a clearly prohibited smoking public place. The two parties realized their mistake and promised not to smoke in non-smoking areas in the future. On April 2, the strict smoking ban at all high-speed railway stations in Shenzhen became a hot search topic, and many netizens supported the nationwide promotion. But just one day later, many netizens reported that smoking was common at Shenzhen North Station, but no one stopped them. Regarding the conflict in Guangming District, the authorities also said that according to the Shenzhen Anti-Smoking Regulations, the area where the man was smoking was a legally prohibited smoking area, and he was fined 50 yuan. There was also a strange trend in the public opinion. Some people tried to turn the incident into a man-woman conflict, and tried to accuse the woman of stopping the smoking of being influenced by so-called foreign forces. However, earlier in Shanghai Disneyland and other places, men also stepped forward to stop smoking. And according to the Shenzhen Anti-Smoking Regulations, Article 12, any individual or unit has the right to require smokers to stop smoking in non-smoking areas, and has the right to require the operators or managers of non-smoking areas to fulfill their anti-smoking duties and report to relevant departments. We also learned in middle school that laws must be enforced by the state's coercive power, and ordinary citizens do not have the authority to enforce laws. What should we do? A lawyer warned that without the authorization of an administrative agency, they have no right to forcibly stop or punish other people's illegal behavior. If the good intentions of the persuasion are ineffective, the most reasonable and legal way to deal with the situation is to keep the evidence and seek help from the administrative law enforcement department, rather than taking the self-initiated method of splashing water, arguing, and blocking, which may cause interference and conflict with others. The party who originally had the advantage will be in a passive position, and may even violate the laws and regulations of public security management. Okay, that's all for this issue of reference information. We'll see you next Thursday.