My name is Jim Al-Khalili and I'm Emeritus 
Professor of Physics at the University of Surrey.  
My book is called "On Time", the physics that 
makes the universe tick. The next wave of quantum  
technology. Here we are a quarter of the way 
through the 21st century and celebrating the most,  
in my view, powerful and successful scientific 
theory. We have ever come up with quantum  
mechanics. Quantum mechanics was developed in the 
early decades of the 20th century and describes  
the way atoms and the particles that make up 
atoms, the tiniest building blocks of matter,  
how they behave. And they behave in a way very 
different from the way our everyday world behaves.  
Quantum mechanics as opposed to Newton's mechanics 
and Newton's laws of motion. So in the quantum  
world, things are fuzzy, they're probabilistic, an 
electron can be in more than one state at the same  
time. Particles can move in multiple directions at 
the same time. They behave like spread out waves.  
They can quantum tunnel through energy barriers, 
like a ghost passing through a solid wall. Things  
that we'd never see in our everyday world. And yet 
that reality down at the quantum realm is our true  
reality. Everything is built from that. Our whole 
universe ultimately behaves in a quantum way. Now,  
the early discoveries of quantum mechanics led 
throughout the 20th century to all sorts of  
technologies, what we now call the first quantum 
revolution. So the laser, the transistor, LEDs,  
the integrated circuits, the microchip, the 
computer, GPS, smartphones, the internet, almost  
all of our modern technology that we use today 
that relies on electronics is thanks to developing  
quantum mechanics. Today, we're on the threshold 
of a second quantum revolution. A revolution in  
technology based on even more counterintuitive 
ideas of quantum mechanics, things like quantum  
entanglement and quantum superposition. So many 
people may have heard of quantum superposition in  
the context of the so-called two slit experiment, 
where you send particles through a screen with  
two slits, and it forms an interference pattern at 
the back. Somehow, the particle goes through both  
slits simultaneously and behaves like a wave. So 
superposition is strange. Quantum entanglement is  
even stranger. This is the notion that even 
Einstein famously didn't like when he first  
encountered it, that two separated particles can 
somehow be instantaneously in communication with  
each other. They're fate so intertwined because 
they have to be described by the same single  
quantum state. However far apart they are. Well, 
we're now using superposition and entanglement to  
develop whole new technologies. Some are coming. 
They will be with us in maybe in a decade or two,  
like the quantum computer. Others we already have. 
So we are now developing instruments that carry  
out what's called quantum sensing. We have even 
developed this way of sensing very weak magnetic  
fields. You wear a helmet, like a cycling helmet 
on your head, and thanks to quantum entanglement,  
we can measure the firing of single neurons. 
So essentially reading people's brainwaves.  
One other technology that's being developed at the 
moment is quantum communication. Now we know the  
way the internet is connected up through optical 
fibers. We send lasers through these fibers and  
it's coherent like that links different nodes 
around the world linking computers. What if we  
could use the notion of quantum entanglement? 
So photons that could be sent along optical  
fibers can nevertheless be quantum entangled 
with other photons very far away from them.  
You could use quantum information to 
communicate and link the world. What if we  
had quantum computers that are linked via quantum 
information? Now we would have something called  
the quantum internet. Quantum imaging is something 
that's developing that is this wonderful idea of  
what's called the entanglement camera whereby 
you have two particles of light, two photons.  
One is visible in the visible range of the 
spectrum and one is an infrared photon. These  
two photons are quantum entangled. So what happens 
to one influences the behavior of the other. The  
infrared photons, infrared light is very good at 
imaging, particularly imaging biological tissue  
whereas visible light is much better to create 
images in cameras. So much sharper images. So  
you send the infrared light to probe biological 
tissue, for example looking for cancer tumors  
and then the visible light will create an image 
of what the infrared light sees even though the  
visible light has never been near the physical 
object itself. It's magically transferring this  
information via quantum entanglement. So these are 
devices that are already being built and already  
being used to help in medical imaging for example. 
The quantum computer of course is the poster child  
of the second quantum revolution. Quantum 
computers famously operate very differently  
from classical computers. They don't rely 
on bits of information that are zero or one,  
but rely on quantum bits of information, qubits, 
that are both zero and one at the same time. And  
this gives us scope for exponentially increasing 
the power of computations. They're the ultimate  
in parallel processing. A quantum computer, when 
we have it, will one day be able to solve problems  
that the most powerful supercomputers we have 
today would take billions of years to solve.  
Quantum computers we hope will be able to help us 
in new drug discoveries, in better climate models,  
in financial transactions, in studying the 
behavior of quantum systems in research labs,  
in physics and chemistry. They won't be able to 
do everything, but they will have specialized  
applications that are going to change the world. 
There are of course many challenges still ahead  
of us. For example, in a quantum computer it's not 
just about having a qubit that can be off and on  
at the same time. You have to have many qubits 
quantum entangled together, and together they  
form the quantum processor that can run quantum 
algorithms that can carry out computations down  
in the quantum realm. But of course linking 
these qubits together via entanglement is  
subject to disturbance from outside. What's called 
de-coherence. The idea that the quantum effects  
are very delicate and ephemeral, and they will 
dissipate very quickly. Like putting up a hot  
cup of coffee in the freezer, you know, it won't 
stay hot. Well in the quantum world, de-coherence  
happens very, very fast. And one of the biggest 
challenges is how do you maintain the quantumness  
of your computer for long enough for it to do the 
computations. This is related to what's called  
quantum error correction. You have to build in 
a certain redundancy. So if you need 100 qubits  
to carry out a computation, you probably need 
a thousand or million just to make sure that  
collectively you get an answer, even though some 
of them have are useless because of de-coherence.  
Another problem is of course what do you build a 
quantum computer with? There are multiple options  
for what's called the substrate would be. What 
is the hardware that the quantum computer would  
be? There are lots of candidates, and we don't 
know which is the best one. Maybe they will be  
using what's called superconducting circuits, 
electrical circuits that are at temperatures  
near absolute zero, such that this quantum effect 
called superconductivity suddenly appears, where  
you have electrical currents flowing through wires 
with zero resistance. Now you can start to use  
these superconducting wires to carry out quantum 
effect, quantum computations. They behave like  
qubits. You could build a quantum computer out of 
light, out of photons of light traveling through  
fibers. You can build it out of clouds of atoms 
that are suspended in a magnetic field and held  
in place and cooled down to near absolute zero 
by laser beams. And those atoms then, they can  
be pumped with energy with other lasers, such that 
you put them into a quantum superposition of being  
in two energy states at the same time. So now 
you have clouds of atoms that form your quantum  
computer. You can have strings of atoms that are 
missing or have extra electrons, so they're ions,  
they're electrically charged. They form the 
qubits. The fact they have electric charge  
means you can hold them in place using electric 
and magnetic fields. So there are lots of options.  
We don't know which is going to be the best one. 
And then even when you build a quantum computer,  
what do you run on it? What are the quantum 
algorithms? What's the code that you write that's  
going to carry out a quantum computation? We have 
a few already. What's called Grover's algorithm,  
Shaw's algorithm, named after the people who 
developed these software algorithms. We need more  
and there's still work being developed as to when 
you have the hardware, what is the software that's  
going to do it justice? Some will argue that a 
quantum computer will be with us in two or three  
years' time, if you believe the hype. I think 
realistically we're talking about a decade or  
two from now. Are we here as it were playing God 
in developing technologies that are so outlandish,  
so far beyond anything that might occur naturally, 
that we don't even know what the implications  
or ramifications would be? I don't think so. I 
think we've always developed technologies that  
are based on our understanding of the workings 
of the universe, on the laws of physics. I think  
this isn't no different. More to the point, some 
of these very strange implications of the quantum  
realm, these new technologies that we're thinking 
of building, may in some sense already exist. Life  
may have hit upon the tricks of the quantum world 
and has used it to its advantage. So there's a new  
area of science called quantum biology, which uses 
the laws of physics to apply the laws of physics  
inside living cells. Asking the question, has life 
over the billions of years that it's been around,  
figured out how to use the tricks of the quantum 
world to give it an advantage? It's not magic.  
You know, quantum mechanics isn't magic. If life 
thinks that following a quantum process gives it  
an advantage, it will use that quantum process, 
whether it's tunneling of particles from A to B,  
is a more efficient way of transferring them 
to move a classical particle, it will use  
quantum tunneling. Some have argued that maybe our 
brains are quantum computers. I think that's going  
much too far. We don't understand the nature of 
consciousness as it is. Let's not bring in quantum  
mechanics there. But there may be processes in 
nature, such as photosynthesis, where there's the  
hint, the possibility that some sort of quantum 
mechanism is taking place, quantum superposition,  
maybe in our challenge to stave off the coherence, 
to build a quantum computer that can carry out a  
computation long enough before that entanglement 
disappears and decaheres. Maybe life has evolved  
the tricks inside the warm, hot, messy, noisy 
living cell, where thousands of chemical reactions  
are taking place. Nevertheless, it's been able 
to maintain quantum coherence long enough to have  
some biological function inside living cells 
and keep decaheras at bay for long enough for  
that to happen. That's something that I find very 
interesting, you know, has life figured out the  
tricks that we're trying to solve now to build a 
quantum computer. If so, life's had long enough to  
be able to figure it out, we can short-cout it, we 
can just copy what life has done. We talked today  
about the revolution in artificial intelligence. 
While the second quantum revolution, I believe,  
will be just as important and just as impactful. 
Never mind when quantum technologies merge with  
artificial intelligence, then wow, who knows 
what will come. Want to support the channel?  
Join the BigThink members community where 
you get access to videos early? Add free.