[Music] This is the scene in Paris right now. I want to show you, it's just in. [Gunshots] Two heavily armed men attack the officers of Charlie Hebdo. They are shooting down there. They are shooting Charlie Hebdo. At least 12 people were dead.  The first video they shared was the one that Lee Bo-er and his terrorist group built. The police believe that this is the starting point of their radicalization. So I came to Paris to find out what factors had affected them during Charlie's attack on the city. I have seen the faces of all the victims. I have seen the poems and paintings of these people. Standing in front of the magazine building, their strong sense of life and the emptyness of the moment make my heart beat. They are the same as me, the reporter. I am the one who died in my hands.為手中的必留寺 Crowds gathered with one message for those who had brought terror to the French capital, "Je suis Charlie." This is the most severe attack in France in the past 40 years. 1.5 million Parisians protested. People raised their hands when the reporter fell. Among the 12 victims, there is a maintenance worker, two police officers, and one of them is Mussolini. I want to find the core person in this play and understand the power behind them. The attacker, Sheref Kouachi and his brother were killed in the battle against the county soldiers. But ten years ago, the person who recruited them to enter the battle was still alive. Farid Ben Yetu Farid Ben Yetu 2004 It was he who sent Sheref Kouachi to Iraq to assassinate Shigi. Two people were arrested before departure.  What does he look like? Because his face has been covered with sunglasses. After Charlie Zhou's attack, he still covered his face. He called himself "the third person" in front of the media, denying his responsibility. Farid Benetton doesn't agree with what happened. He condemns him. I feel that this person will never take off his sunglasses. So when this person appears at the interview, we are all a little out of hand. It's in front of us. Yes, look down. I'm surprised. You are not wearing your hat and sunglasses. Yes, because you're going to ask me some questions about people kidding, about what do you think about that, with glasses it's easier. No, I don't approve what happened. So when you're talking with your hat, it's different. This is the first time I've seen the so-called "Saint Seiya" It's a true face I can't judge whether this person is telling the truth or not But what I'm concerned about is whether he can face his past responsibilities You are the one who turned him into a jihadist, right? You are the one who justified the violence for him, right? Do you feel any blood on your hands? It's not reality, but it's still difficult to this day. Because reality is... In fact, it's horrible. After the attack, Xeluf raised his finger. Benyatou said that this finger represents his so-called thought of defending. I saw several terrorists using this gesture. He said that this finger means to recognize the owner and the one. This is the core of their philosophy. It was very important to worship only one God. It was the basis of everything. I don't understand this sentence, because every Muslim thinks that the Lord is unique. But Ben-Yatou pushed this concept to extreme. He believes that the Golanism, the Holy Bible and the Islamic teachings can only be implemented in the form of a text. Any interpretation of mankind is against the idea of the Lord being unique. He wants to be above the Lord, that is, the Shirk, idol worship, and the emperor's hell. He claims to be a Salafi, meaning a pioneer of the future. The teacher and the first three generations of the Muslim disciples are real Muslims. So from clothing to lifestyle, they all have to go back to more than a thousand years ago. For all actions, only two parts are allowed and prohibited. The toilet must be entered first, the bedroom must be on the right side. Music, alcohol and mixed with men and women, all make people away from the real master and turn to the Shirk. Adore the pursuit of the star is the Shirk, taking pictures and sculptures is also the Shirk. Because people want to create their image, they are the gods.  The Jingshou Sect is promoting him from the bottom of society. The Political Sect is promoting him through political means. The Holy War Sect is forcing others to accept this goal. He believes that anyone who does NOT follow the Islamic teachings in a selfish sense can be considered a criminal. The thief is a thief who steals, the thief who is forced to marry the one who is in a wedding, the thief who is forced to settle the marriage, the thief who is forced to marry the one who is married. These words do exist in Islamic law, and are called Hadut, the boundary set by God. But that is because the physical form has been common in the Middle Ages. Hadut has not been widely used for thousands of years. But the Saint is taking it as a pure symbol of consciousness. It must be performed from the perspective. And once you pursue the so-called absolute purity, you are not far from fear. que l'homme était par nature toujours attiré par la femme et que la femme était de nature à vouloir séduire les hommes. C'est la raison pour laquelle on la considérait comme un être un peu inférieur. C'était le meilleur outil qu'utilisait Satan justement pour détourner les gens de la religion. Okay, so what would be my fate, live in your world? I would have told you that as a woman, you would have finally found your real place, that is to stay at home, take care of your children, but on the condition of paying this tribute. What if I refuse to pay the tax? I don't think you would have had a choice. Will you kill me? Will you kill me? It's unfortunately... I mean, I'm sitting in front of you. Don't you feel any empathy or compassion toward me? A human? At this moment, I wouldn't have looked at you like a human being. as something theoretical, as if you didn't exist. But did you consider yourself as a human? As being one of the best human beings. At this moment, I understand how humanly cruel it is. No wonder after the attack, Xelif Kouwachi kept saying that I am not a killer. We are not killers. We are the defenders of the prophets. We don't kill women. No wonder the UNICEF could hit the car against the child. For them, it's not the human being in front of them, but the barrier to the goal. How can an abstract statement of the invader drive people to kill? I want to verify his truth and falsehood. In Paris, I met David Walid, the first French native warrior. The attack on the city of Balin, which took place in 1995, caused 8 deaths and nearly 200 injuries. David Walid did not participate in the attack, but the materials and guns of the bomb came from him. In the 90s, he trained with 911 snipers in the same base organization, and fought with the Pakistani army. He said that the person who was responsible for all the terrorists was the same ghost. Have you ever thought of them? Don't care. When you live in this kind of mind, to think you are the best community, you are preferred by God, the other one can kill them really easy. At the moment you accept that the other one is less. then you can make him what you want. He's not your ego, he's not human being. He's as an animal. But is there any humanity live inside you at the time? I think not so much. Really, I was like a robot. They gave me one half drive. It's like that. If a person really believes that the Creator created this world, what is the need to hate other lives and fight against the whole world? The Bible says that the only one who knows the Creator means that only the True Creator can make laws. I really believe that it was the Creator who created this world. Why would He hate other people's lives and make the world His own? The Bible says that the One who is the Creator means that only the True Creator can establish the law. Anyone who wants to make laws is a god, a Shirk. Those who obey are a disciple. Even Muslims, as long as they don't follow the rules of religion, they can be judged as a traitor. For us, they were people who wanted to replace God. The term we used at that time was "Tarut". "Tarut" was the most pejorative term we had in our vocabulary. government. No. So you consider them as enemy? Yes of course. At that time they were clearly enemies. The worst category was not the non-Muslims, it was the apostates. It had to start with the LCPI and then the Western world. Everyone was everyone was an enemy. You want to conquer the whole world? Yes. We wanted to impose the Islamic law in the whole world. People didn't understand the world they lived in. Only we understood it. So we were leading them to war to deliver them. To free them by killing them? We had imposed a system on them. If we had imposed something better on them, they would follow. And they would become better. They wouldn't need to be killed. When you have misled the others, when you have misled human democracy and law, we believe in you. Between you and us, the enmity and hatred have appeared until you believe in Allah alone. I once thought that the terrorists in Libor burned their passports before the attack. is to show their stubbornness. But in fact, this is a symbol of a divine identity, which means that they refuse to live under the rule of mankind. The law covers everything. Politics, economy, morality, and life. Those who do not obey are the enemy. They interpret the concept of loyalty and rejection of Islam as "love the true master, must hate his enemy" They say that the war is the highest form of loyalty and rejection To overthrow all human rights, the establishment of Islam is a real act of religion They have the same objective, to have a Daula Islamic State. One caliphate. Every young people is a revolutionary man. He likes to change the world. So it match by this way, this ideology. What did you fight for?  This ideology was created in the beginning for political reasons, for profit. Yes. They had to make dream young men of this time to be sure they will fight for them because they will have 20% of it. If you fight for the caliph, you will have choice to come back rich, so you will have choice to choose you own young woman to marry. Or you will die shade. But in the original, it was "East Shed", which means "heavenly treasure" It was like using silk to cover a bloodstained object When we talked about the attacks, we talked about military operations When we talked flying, we talked about Ranima Ce qu'on appelle le butin de guerre. C'était des façons un petit peu de faire passer les choses pour autre chose que ce qu'elles sont. Ce n'était plus des meurtres, ce n'était plus du vol, mais des actes de guerre, des actes de bravoure. C'était notre petit truc contre nous. Just like you justified. Why didn't you go to the war yourself? For me, there were strategic choices to make, it was much more complex than that. So people had to be ideologists who transmitted ideology. If for example I was going to fight, then no one would follow that path. But some people might say, "You just drive your followers like cannon powder." Can you answer today with a step back? [The What is it?  So you really believe that that's a... Of course. They really believe they will go paradise. It's not one joke, it's not bullshit. When they say it, they trust in it. If they wasn't sure of that, they didn't kill and be killed. Never. You never go. The Bible does say that the reward for the smallest of people in the heaven is a place with 80,000 slaves and 72 nuns. But many Muslim scholars believe that this is just a prophecy, and can have many interpretations. I realized that there was no truth to the testimony. Everything is understood from the perspective of the character. The attacker of Charlie Chauvin, Sheriff Kuwachi, said in a court record that Benyatou had eliminated his concern for death. His original words are, Benyatou said, There are cooks and big houses in heaven. Did you see it? When he said that, I really seemed to see it. So did you really believe that? It's a complicated question. No, I think I had doubts. What I received was the impression of seeing people convinced in front of me and that it would give me energy to fight my doubts. The problem is that seeing the truth in front of you It immediately led to the collapse of the entire world as I had built it. It sounds absurd and unbelievable, until I saw the video of terrorists shooting themselves before the explosion. It is said that in your target of the Crusaders and the bombing in the land of the Haramain, there are many corruptions against Islam and Muslims. So what is your reaction to this statement? You do not focus? I am afraid. I don't even understand why this man was going to die. But before he killed himself, he covered his face with a 72-inch paper and ran forward. This action gave me an impulse to seek death to violate the most powerful biological instinct of man. You can't generate such energy by just relying on a certain abstract attraction. So what kind of power is behind it? Push it forward. [Music] with that money, with that car, they don't get girlfriend. And there, they go in places, they can choose prisoners. She's pretty afro, this one. Slave woman. I thought I heard it wrong. I watched the video of the so-called Icelandic publicly selling sex slaves in 2014. I thought it was just a bunch of wild plants    The attack on Libor was a完全像背誓 It sounds weird and it sounds crazy and it sounds like it's something made up, but it isn't. It really was my life. I was there being gay, doing stuff with other guys, and then at the same time being this extreme extreme Salafi who wanted, who believed in committing to acts of terror. I met Suhail Ahmad in London. When he was 16, he wanted to make a bomb and put it in the Golden Lion Pier, the most prosperous shopping centre in London. This university student who is a physics major at Mary Queen University has no criminal record, nor has he done any violent acts. So how can you just kill people? I know. That's the thing, I wasn't a violent person at heart. I wasn't a kind of an individual who wanted to hurt other people. Absolutely not. I just kind of tried everything which was suggested and there was no way out really. If I died as a result that would be a good way out. But at the same time, I was worried that the sinfulness of what I had done would be too much, even to forgive, like with carrying out a terror attack. But how did you see yourself? Evil. I thought I was evil and that that was the reason why. God had made me gay. are judged for the sexual intercourse between men. But the teacher of Salafi Youth Temple explained to Suhail that homosexuality is the most horrible crime. Their punishment is death. That is why the court decided to rule the island. Fear wasn't a massive dominant thing there. So every single time my parents would kind of call me down from my room or just call me generally I'd just be worried that they'd figured it out. and that I was going to get executed now. That's kind of like a fear that continued through throughout my teenage years. He had a new habit at the age of 14. He was a stranger. But every time he had a new habit, he would hate himself and hate himself. He believed that the one who was a thug would die in hell and would be punished with the most horrible punishment. He forced himself to watch straight-up love films and burn his hands with matches. But the intercourse with the thugs It's like a mental panic So I was stuck between all these things and I was just, you know, keep it to myself. This really strong sinking feeling. Like, I'm trying absolutely everything to change myself but I can't change. And sometimes I would just cry. cry and pray to God begging him to change me. I would have wanted nothing more in the world than to be straight. Did you ever check online to search this topic? There's a lot of information about it. Yeah, but I mean in that in that mentality I didn't accept the information from the non-Muslims. They're wrong anyway, they're gonna burn in hell. It's really a cult mentality and this cult has really figured out every way to get you locked in. and on the day of trial, they were sentenced to death in heaven and hell. I used to wonder how the myth could have any effect on an adult. Now I understand that they became prisoners, and the watchers' eyes are always on their own eyes. I was confused when I was in Libor, thinking that there must be a fake. Either these terrorists are the "Nine-Colored Rascals" and fake the murder of the Islamic people. Or they are the real future. These are just means of escape and investigation. But the original picture says that both are true. They don't believe it, but they can't do it. Did you follow the ruse very strictly? Tell me the truth. Of course not. Of course not. Of course I didn't admit it either. Because during this whole period I wore a dress that gave pressure to people to be a pious, to be a saint, to be someone of knowledge, someone who was on the right path. And a girl once asked me a question, I was in high school, she asked me a question, she asked me "Do you pray?" After that, I was embarrassed, I was embarrassed, I couldn't tell her that I didn't pray. So I told her "Look how I dress."  loyal and rejected, there is only one father left. Do you believe there is a real person who can follow all the strict rules in the world? As I explained, the fact that we are in contradiction, that we are in contradiction at times with these rules, is something that we did not admit. We had to blame someone. If we did not succeed, it was because of society.  Like a revenge? need to continue to cover their anxiety and responsibility. The division of personality is inevitable, and even necessary. They call their desires "demons". Xie Li Fu asked Benetto to remove the demon for himself, while Su Hai'er used the demon to cure his childhood feelings. My parents then took me to this place that said 'Rukia' on top of it in English writing, so R-U-Q-Y-A. That means 'exorcism' in Arabic. They're putting their hand on my forehead, reciting the Quran. blowing into the water to make a holy water and then sprinkling it on you. (screaming) Your rational mind is telling you this is not real. They call it gin, they call the demons gin. There was no gin inside me, yet the older part of my brain, started going, wait, what if there is a gin inside me? And then that made me feel so depressed that I became suicidal. Do you want to end this pen? Yes. Well I knew suicide was on the way out because that could potentially land me in hell forever. So you really believed in hell? I really believed in hell. What is it? Well, people burning and their flesh burning off and then they're coming back to life again and then burning off again for eternity. until they burn from the inside out. Il se passe encore et encore et encore. Les pensées de la magie ne peuvent pas résoudre les combats de l'esprit. Les gens se déchiquent comme des bouts de douleur. Leurs combats de l'esprit continuent à s'exprimer. Cielif Kouachi, au sable de l'été 2004, a disparu un an après, et a repris à la base. Il a dû aller à l'Irak en une nuit. Il avait vraiment... une espèce de dégoût de ce qu'il pouvait être. He tried to get out of it, to get rid of it. He tried, but it wasn't enough. The only solution he found, the only way out he found, was to make this attack, suicide, and die, and finally get rid of all his impulses. To end the fear of hell. Is that correct? That's exactly it. So imagine that we could go to hell. It hurt. Instead of fighting all your life to try to be better, you have to expose yourself to the enemy, make sure you are killed as quickly as possible, and then you are assured to go to heaven. Martyring is easier. This ideology makes you just like you are one mouse The first you open, she will go. You close one way, the music. You close one way, the doubt. You close the one way. You are not sure to go paradise with this reason, this reason, this reason. And until only-- - Only left the one door? - Yes, the one door, she had. What normal males do in one closed box? She go out, but the first way out. I have encountered violent mental illness, these three people are not of this kind. They don't change their ears and their actions. No one says that someone in their head ordered them to kill. The "crazy" is a nickname for an abstract goal. They come from different countries, speak different languages, but they call themselves Salafis. They are talking about the same political goal that is included in the religious concept. That is to implement the Islamic law of self-destruction in the world. The term "Salahfei" was used by the scholars. People think that terrorists are crazy. They are not crazy about mental illness Killing is a