Everyone, in people's in the in the people's in the media, the most of the news, and it's a lot of bad news. That's right now, it's, take care, fay-nobes-nought, may be it easy. In puttion, guy, the way of the bad news, benders on a bit more than a good message, denture on a little, you'd get on a bit more than a The news is the idea. First, the report of the thing should have used. Like the chapter-type-like., So, "Indo there a guy who's "'chewed a new "'zoned a fraud-in-lawed "'in' way-go-da-do-fonged "'in-dele-cue-fond, "'and to see-de-de-cule-cuit-old, "'and-de-couped-all-priced-cuit-old. "'But it's-de-deal-cuit-cough-cou-cuit-cou-stststs. The other, the American public public radio NPR, also, also, puttow, and truth-true-true pen. The jacquesholtz, said their car car, they're all the car that they're all right. They also had given the gaw-hung car to their car in. The health company is more real-in-send, and when the place there's some place little chiquel. Just to ask the animal and then get-d-d-d-ent-eat-a-send- media-send-dent-a-lust that's-chion. The healths, the police, got to beck-the-chew-t found out of a jack-hound, and a-chong-h-h-hound, and a-h-h-h-h-hound, and-bust-gang-gach-chong. It is they were they They put on on a chum-pey, take on on chionte, on chung-sion and don't join-hung to pin insurance. This one, from the content to the report's very useful news. The media and so public's media's public people, is the people who get- people, and it's People have seen many times American media show the news NPR's news are very about like Trump on Trump Kahn like China like Wukhoush like Wukh and Kassah and Rost people people and don't and like the world world life not tomorrow and it's going to end The next one, I saw see in India this mow-chongs to get the see the four people and then changed to be the traditional game's the and then, it's just it's interesting, you know, to not the information and the language to get to the to get to the to the language, The people are not like a people like the people like the people say the people say it's just and sub-bought the most of the word is in the English in the young-south young-shawny to the sub-word is that F-word last week there was a report is about it was about about the American people's how you how much to be change change the the BORT in the the F-word and the Goodbye gentle parenting, hello fuck around and find out. Go-beer, Wenrow, Yu-Ear. Want to death, you'll try. Just by the bio-tee, the booker knows, the name is far enough. Gentile parenting, "Wenroll, U.S., or, say, to the child's, "wensual, like, this kind of this is teaching to the age of the parents, in the age, that the time, that the In the I meaner Chau, is to the war end up 20 years their age, they're in their age, the next year, is the X age, the 60th, and 80-0. 90-0-000, this day young, people, in the in America, Z-Stai. It can say this is the age is a world They are this kind of They are this family education of and is this this is the family children many of the many of the in the in the in the over-wens un'er and you and the children to do it, and it's causing many and change the wayer wayer and then to try to and in a way to to give one-one and it's strong down from from H. From H.R. This is a particular it's a a different change this this is a change f'n' fa'ful just fack around and find out the word of soxed "Han' "'You'll listen to name.'" "'You hear this name, you know, "'this can't not is a "'justing a way, "'as it's a puttong, "'lau people's, "'buttso, chit-hoe. "'Unthews. "'Andoos, "'an through the "'susualsian, "'a. "'Ansah, "'of the child "'asue, and, "'anismly, "'he's not. "'It's a problem "'Sever. "'Someight, "'an't, "'what, They think it it's to a new get-but some some of the some some sort of financial in other in the general and the kind of product and why money and then men people some people and find that's that's that's not not not even that people might may make the people and it's and there's you can't and can't fafo fuck around and find out it was a good on the network on the local. These these parents to put it to take it to use to child's on. This became their own their own rule yu'er'er's a new art pan. The journalist talked a young mother's story He has a 13-year-old son. He's got very much. Da'i-Ma said what do hear-p't-do. Dr. Zorn get-the-can and-the-can-the-can-a-garned to do. There used to-a-sue. Yingdi has a chastang. Her son-arts and his-warr-sore-sun. Pondon-don-for-in. and to pay you Other, he's not, but can't pen his mom. He told his his brother can't pen her. But her brother don't even to pay him. His reaction is his wife bring in the t'hton. This is, his father his son, he's just that he said and the bad thing is there is there. To some few small child to for the end of the only one the only can the people people people and not that that they gave the end the men and say the the people the life the one sometimes the often is sometimes often is the the education and it's just that it's a hard to be the the outcome that's just that's not-to-earned those not-hurt can't-so-scian one's-heaval one. One-one in the human-to-o-goe this in-gen-chang-li, learned-and-the-chang-li, and the end-the-will-the-he-sheat-sovue and to get-so-chuk than-each-tall-the-cult to get-the-ccuit in-cue-he-all-a-cue "u''-a-cue. This is the one-scent-a-kker, child-tie-ma-pac-ma-pac-tall, and then-sher-way, and society also will teach. The difference is, when social-giao-deshue will more than time. In the past few years, because gentle parenting, we're a little-year-er, is the children's-nue education's the true-lough. Fafel, like, just turned-in-chut-loughed. But actually, this just on the the true-sohn how much of the way of our wayer's not yet not yet not yet. In the past, it has a different name, also the people's of the way, called tough love, and A friend, he was Luyssinna, a child, I was a small home, some of our family, some, we go to go in, in-de-send, in-day-send-sum-sor-suit. He said, "Now, kids, "talled" "tough' food'gall' to eat-lingshs, and lots of— young-ggy-chin-kings young-king, and so, "Fey-pong." He said, he's a little, no, to the fun After the mom had to eat-and-all-hound-hast-tall-as-all-tall-tack-all-quered, then eat. This is the way-ggy. Tarrnonged people is how much to be the age. The time, show-gte-lure. It was from an end-stice-foods. "Hise, da'et-tie-one, "'hue-tun-sue-suff, "'pue-for-you-wave-wond, "'but can't take care "'to-sci-ture-s'-sci-tall-scied-s'-due-l-court. "'That's-taught-love, "'toeach-love. "'Tough-Love!' H. H.R.G.J. The first one of my friend's of the experience like. Mama, one-fin-s, made eat. Say, "But-e. Fafo, Mama, the doffo' eat a dune, then eat to eat to eat to and then the money and the price. Mama, "tuff the kids, the 'Wanry 'toe "'you all the time. "'But the "'Yes, "'but the "'all the "'and all the "'all the "'and all "'I'll just "'I'll "'if' him. "'For a f'-foo-mah-ma-ma-to-a-oh-a-cuit, "'all-could-all-could-a-all-all-cint-lack-git-lack-a-cook-call-could, "'and-a-cuh-hue-cund-cund-he-all-cund-cun-he-cun-cun-cououou-ccclet. the time and the way Theeepa Mom's Tovue My name Tove my My name When she's Toe When we're When it's Toe When you Toe Toe make Make sure, This is this kind of a very kind of a yu ear way this way to back to the last-a-day-old of the traditional education why these years and then suddenly the answer is because because he it's just because it "San-day' parents' in their own-kind-sined-sign-shed, "'with the '-quess' ''unct' 'the-s-sad,' 'n't even like them' 'ye"s' day' 'be didn't like them you-tie-te-to-be-hue-chre "'ture-can-kind-kind-cang-like-the-send-kind-kind-like-the-l-thing-all-a-l-oh-l-cure-a-oh-old-hame-oh.' and it's, and not short-the-stor-the-cure-the-curethead and the power, those the bea-tare-behold is being-lung and-crucunded and crueck-trait. This age, it could have a total parenting well-whether-y-ear of "Syssenpins with the wu t'upeg-l of the world, "Whiard's true is good. "Won' children, "'lea' child' "'lea'i'i'i'i'a' "'and their'iqa'-te-te-can-li-an-kind-can-n-can-lican-kind-can-all-hide-hack-kind.' "'This all's a good-all-all-hout-chup-part-it. In the culture, over-due of the education could give the kids cause to cause a pain-sacred. Sin-ly-sure-chewsue and theucist and for the people, to get-so-were and it. We think every kid-seeing is good-and-all- is good-ed. Fummer's responsibility is in in in in in in in in dair, the theory of it's not there's not not in this way, in this way, I'm going can be able to pay out high-chings and you have a whole-li-sin, and the people, but the reality and the reality is two ways. A A new and a Auxathe's Auxo Writer Mnichael Kennedy. He has a psychology So, his also his booker, Dr. Becky. His name "Gold Inside. Although he not He doesn't say that "Tental Parenting, but he in the school's in his song the song and the "Wenro-Yer-eer-de-e He said, he's said, "It's not 'tere 't's "tower' "'t' "'He' "'He' "'But he "'he' not "'for'n't "'to' "'He'all' becky kennedy borses said that those the shu-booker yu'er fun-far-warned the parents in the life can't say beepy get-sheet and wett wett and yu yu'er from a gell-songs, they're giovscied the kids became a-cha-to-the-j-jew-a-old A woman at Yer's Onetan said, he by four-swee's got to unquay-one. His son decided, "Ten house and eat at home." The mother, in her mother's own row, y'er's search, to give her son's conchings, to understand her the future, and then, the last result is, her son, "Theirce'a' son's free'l'l'-liet-fe, and he's but it became to her right-of-the-six-old but it's her own. A one's way, he said, he's on a school and had a little bitnue and he'd call to-coup. He'd be able to leave down the work and go to school. He, of course, get ridgothed two people that's always could know out of becknow. He to school is for his way of her daughter's to beck. These are and unlawy-ir-ahed-er-far and the true think that is it's a good-you-earned. But the result is they've been paying-out-as- made-a-old- made-the-sus- and it's the world around the people should run. These are doing to the children, no, without, no, children, there's always teaching children, not, and the children, there's, and then, they're going, the way, They've made a work one-she-in-sure by the children by the children to be sure must be full of and the light, and the people and then they're in the social-of-a- world, in the people in the people, and the and then to make the world the world, the natural social society, many, many many, there, some, some, some, it's, some, a, This 10 years, all the social data results have shown a few a lot of the Z-S-D-Side ha-hound. First is the health crisis. According to American, the U. U.S. CDC, and in the CDC's data, the Z-S. The age, is 90- and 2000-ho and the health is the few-day- people- in the few-day- people- not than than the people were more and than their parents than the future in the times the age times the time in the age in the state in in a year in in the year in the continued the by allue, ewe, over the youngsional and by the last year's and then, this is a time this is a common social and health crisis. The other is the market-saint-same and the world's when the state leave-cared-caughts and school's when it's go on the society, into the trot, there's many-and-a- many-eared and the companies, including Gallup, and including to the world, did a in the time, The Aller's just as a result, Z-Cide workers though in in the and in people, of the last, in the new-scient, and in the new people, it, and in the, the people, the, the people, in a few people, in the, the, because a good person, the point, the, the same, and some people, they're not. I'm just to, and some people, and they, because of course, it's not, you know, and, you know, and they're going to, and, it's just, but it's just, and, it's office. I'm, and, it, it's just to do not, but, I'm in the job, and there. The job, and there. I'm the job, but there. And so young, so some of the job, but some They're going to be understood, but they're not yet, but not yet, but can't be able to be able to give. Third, is society's world over. The world's most, in the day, in the world, it's in a world, in the world, is in the world, According CDC's government, the American U.S. World Unique U.S. under 2014 down the top end. It's 78.8. Then, then, you're being in fact. The pandemic had been in even a full down to 76.6.1. The pandemic after the 2023 year still never never never never never never was the CDC's the end the security and 24 not not not full the human people and during due the soon down that and it's in the time that the time the country , of this issue, of, of there are many reasons. But one of the one is some of the the case of the truth of despair. With a bad way, is that's see-due, curio, koeiae, and suicide, or so far away, is in the Some some professional people this situation, this kind of a situation, especially young people people, even the people, and the people, there's in the in the people, in the people, and the people, but they will get power, and they get over down, and they're down, and fall up, This is a part of everyone who will get you to be able to. But in the future-in-sysh and school-wun-swain-in-she-in-child-wun-stern-che-like-like people, no-lis-hulled-heat-all-cue-cru-cuit. They only take-to-with-cuit-cuit-cuit-cuit-old, even with a-sha-tall-old-old-old. This time-a-cuit-oldinging in America, not is easy-cout-of-cue, but is experienced a day-day-de-cine-cin the process. The Great Chowtile and Seconds, the day American young people, by the history school system became the greatest generation. They were the time. They've been the small deal of the hard and the parents, for the work hard, no, and there's their can't give the good gift, is tough love, and the endly love. Tough love is that the time, Fafu. And, That time of the There are No. No. No. There's Life, is the hard-earned the teaching and the and can't-cuit Thee The great The Biger-e-e Bigger's Boomer's. They're They're they're their children's children's and they're to get and to get-e- So they are the first-day to enjoy and little-y-er-eat but in their in their own their own their own the world's their parents their way their fengs and their children's and the and truels and even impact their their their their and they They still the right to be the human-of-can-en- as a life-be-be-cour- people-be-cou-cels. Even while their parents their children their children, their children, they've been poor-the-old, the children, is the age, the age, including 6-0, 6-0,000- and- This is a day of small was called a-yard-ish kids. Let's kick kids. They've turned at a life women in the women's their time. Their mama not stay at house and people people don't get to home and when I back the Their their Boat's on on the collar to make the things to get to get and they the young and then they're their power the very self self-e power and having and and having know and there also and also into the office they can say is the work in they're in they're to the their they're they're they're they're how much how to how and how Now, X-S-S-Dade is going to their children's their kids is Z-S-Dade. Z-S-Dade is Wenrow-Y-E-R-R-Lie-E-R is a high-fung-scik and age. Their parents, their families, from the cistern to government, for them made them to make each, from from the family to school to the and the un-should and the 2018, there were two of social sociologists, Greg Lukianov, and Jonathan Hatt, has been a book, a book named Giao Guan of the American Mind. This book, this book, is American-the-American-Mond, pouture, poutes the way-shoulde the youngsouthness to young men's over-do-boh-boh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-hore. The author's The This is, this This is Not not not not not not to But I'm in It's not in the human and they become un-wr and mental and emotional, from family to school, from school, from school, from from school to go go-do and over-d--to--the-st- people, the Z-S-D- people, and the This is Z-S-D decade with the other-day to the same-one a very common-as-of-even-ship to a certain. Of course, not every Z-S-day of children, because not every X-S-Stai to believe and we're young. Z-S-Dade in the un-out-to- mind-e and-each-e and-each-e-st-e people, they gave those kind of the short of bollery-synchied-like white-house called snowflake case-shell-white kids and shi-wash hight-s like a-hawahy-hye-like a-hine-like a-like-shund-y-tray-tray and it all-migh-tray and it out and it out of the In the Chinese, is, it's not not in the child. Not just is not in form, more important is, the mind their their feelings, they're their feelings, they're being mowed, no, no, no, no, no, but they think that they're just the one, and they, just like every piece, share that like, things form, they, it's the, it's all, you know, should, so, they, should be, so, that, But society is their father's social is the society also the their their people their their families their women and their children their their law their teachers using and they in their social in so but society not social is social 20-century of the last year, Hollywood, and made a book a lot of great club, bocgee club. This book is based on a long-minute short story, you're not special. You're not a beautiful and unique snowflake. You're being not a pretty, you're not a beautiful and unique snowflake. You The movie's "Beautil' "'This story.'" "'Shisuals' "'Shonely "'et, "'it's a "'gahue-hut-hought-oh-shout-a-oh-huh. "'This gung, "'and it's for the "'Z-Stead "'theid-out-in-send-dink-said. "'Fa-Fa-fow-eck-a-lac-euvre-h-a-old-oh-he-er-a-old-oh-oh-hcuit-a-old. "'But, whileer-a-Rewewan. "'But, we'll-know-go-so. From go-dude-h-hie-hide-d to out too-baw-yenne-died-git-dun, yis-wuf. The simple, out-bought-fowl, every-sie-choo-cou-could, all tell-sci-s. Want to do-Sor-Sys-SI, to try-kind-can-cang-rung-vue. Tough-love. There's no love. Enly of love, is not not any of if you If Fafo would have become to the child's even need to give him to bring a serious mental trauma Fafo's is for the because to know the behavior know their behavior and learn and learn to but but but the teaching back the children still there still there He can choose to get to and can choose and can't not get over teaching. From life in life in kind of can't get-to-love child, more easy because because because people, and more more more because to be teaching and more consider and I'm One other, a good-to-seeked the child, and who gets to without love, the kid, more more because of not even because of not even even than much much, and even hate-houn. Fee-n-a- parents. It's not is a bad-un- but- but-n- not-un--he-n--n-n- They need for the children set to make the way and clear and certain and the this is tough love and faffo and far-fell and the part of the same parents also the parents get over the and the and gethe and together and and and not and not and Taf Love is how much do-shaped and love, it is not a lack of love's energy. He tells the you to the child's can be no-tort-kind to. You can't be able to a 100-1-1-1-com but at the time the child's the wrong and the wrong. the world in the world and there's always about the family is just too lull every can do that is not just all just enough no way in what the way and at the children and and the future not to make a and never will make and is for a way of a very, you have a self-it-kind-kind, a person-in-one, a human, a good can enjoy shaltz, and can't be able to meet need-ging and choiced and person, a person, a This is of course not very. This should have Fulmoo, it's always to learn and to grow. By the end the child is to do this choice people can can't the most difficult, is the most of of the Whether kids have how big, regardless their career is there, or is one-six-w-wet, life is life, is not-sing, or not-sue- or-suit, as you are parents, they're they're always are our people, and the thing's said it is all the American and children, next the next year, the talk the people's and the next week. Thank you.