大概一年前,我朋友跟我说他得了政治愈症。我当时听了没大回事,因为我觉得政治愈症不是一个正式的医学术语,而且我这位朋友意志相当坚强。但是之后这一年,他持续不断地谈论这个话题。他说他每天大概要花七八个小时去刷那些让他看了很不愉快的新闻,夜里失眠,而且他慢慢失去了对于工作,对生活,甚至对整个人生的兴趣。 When he started talking about death, I became very worried. So I started to investigate this issue. But there are very few Chinese and English documents I can find. The most widely spread article in the Chinese world was written by a American psychologist. His name is Robert Rosen. So I contacted him. This is not an academic interview. This is just a conversation between an ordinary person who cares about his friend and a doctor. Today I broadcast it, hoping to help my friend and someone who has similar difficulties like him. Is political depression real? Is political depression real? What a good question. If you come into the room with me and you start talking about something and you could say to me, "Well, this makes no sense, but I'm feeling it." Oh, go home. Well, of course it makes sense and it's for real because if you're feeling it, it's real. At least in America where I was seeing these people was... that we felt free under democratic agreement to question everything, but to still treat people civilly. And now we don't feel that anymore. And I am they or they would say or I'm I'm super depressed about all this. What is the difference between political depression from the regular depression? Political depression is depression with this added political aspect to it. That is a major feature. It's become a major feature. I want to know the core of depression there could be I Have a total loss of hope that this is ever going to change my soul my spirit it. my career, my relationships, all of them are not going to be, I'm not going to be allowed to grow and evolve with them to the best of me. There's, and that leaves me feeling hopeless. So you mean the core is kind of feeling like powerlessness? Yes, there's a powerlessness that comes with feeling that there's a total loss of any control. There's a loss of power. Yeah, I think that's a very good point that you're saying. Yeah, it's a powerless feeling. It doesn't matter what I do. not going to be seen. It's not going to be heard. That's a piece of regular depression too. Those, there's a loss of connection. There's an isolation that's built into regular depression. 所以你可以看到這些都是普通的事情但是你可以看到在這個叫政治壓力的詞語下每一個東西都還會配合普通人也會有因為症者引起的抑鬱情緒但是他是不是抑鬱症這有一個臨床的診斷標準這是盧森博士發給我的這個標準我貼在了簡介裡面你回頭可以打開鏈接來做一個自我診斷的參考 提醒一下,像这些症状当中,像心情郁闷、失眠、无价值感,这些症状需要几乎每一天出现,而且在一天的大部分时间都要出现。而且同时需要五种或者以上的症状在很短时间内同时出现,才能够符合抑郁症的临床诊断标准。 Dr. Lucent said that political depression may be in line with all these standards, but it has an extra dimension, which is the kind of thought and feeling that has lost control of one's own fate. And he believes that the driving force behind this feeling is fear. He mentioned two types of fear. One is real harm, the other is social discrimination. You mentioned fear as the main drive actually behind political depression. And I'm asking you this question, material harm. If I walked out with a sign in downtown, where? Beijing. Beijing. And what would be the consequences of that? Yeah, you would be arrested. And would your family be arrested too? It depends. The societal fear part is I'm excluded from society. Either people think I'm crazy or they're worried that something would happen from them if they communicate with me. So that'd be a societal fear. And that's where, again, depression comes in when because if you don't find you're being an authentic person, that you're being authentic in your own life and being able to show up in your own life. For my friend, he used to be the type of people that you mentioned is an active doer. And those are the people that are so the most passionate people. They're on the front lines and it's easy to see materially how they could be squished down. and societally how they could be squashed down, and personally, all three, because they keep running into that wall and they want it so bad and they're leading the charge that they just, it just crushes their heart. It's a heart-crushing affair. It really worries me you start talking about death. Hopelessness would be, well this is the way it is and it's not going to change, there's nothing I can do about it and I'm just going to go. Go to sleep 他使用了一個讓我有點毛骨悚然的比喻來形容這樣的一種狀態他說就像是一個人在漆黑的大海上航行你看不到陸地沒有路標然後甚至你看不到日月星辰你的朋友現在並沒有平衡他只在一個無奈的一邊你對中國20年來誰可以假設他知道中國將會是怎樣的? Do any of us know? He has a prediction. Yes, he has a prediction. It's in the future about a possible disaster. And I would say back to that, well, who are you to presume that your prediction is any more than a prediction? Well, it's very direct question. But it's still a prediction. I don't know. And I don't care. Okay. Can you explain more about this? I know in my heart, I believe in my heart and I from the people, the normal people I speak to, regular people, the regular people in the street that we want this other thing. And this is the I don't care part. I don't care if it takes a thousand years to get there. That's the difference between depression and hope. So you've just changed the time frame. Yeah, I'm changing, but it's not only that. When you say it, put it that way, when it becomes that literal. I also have the option, because I really do believe this, things could change tomorrow. And I'm going to show up at the door doing whatever I can to help make that change. What can I do at this point to prevent the worst from happening to my friend? Can he leave the country? He did, actually. He moved to a foreign country. The fear was gone, but the depressions were still there. I smile a bit as I saying that the world The world is a chaotic mess. Life is messy. Life is messy. The world is chaotic. The other part is a more deep-seated thing of that. It's it's. It's going to take longer. It's part of him, right? He's been carrying that around maybe since he was three years old. And he's lost the hope and he's got to come back to it. And he's lost and he's coming back to it. So if I was working with somebody like that, it would be a little bit of... have a little bit of peacefulness with yourself. I would hand them a sheet that says, "Here, take a holiday from yourself today "and go ride on the roller coaster." It'd be something like that. So that's why I've gone over to this bit of conversation about there's some understandings. Once you have that, you're in the room with me and once you have that conversation, you might have a little more peacefulness about it. So maybe the point is about regaining the power and the meaning of life to cure yourself, to heal yourself. Well, it's not a cure. There is no cure for you, Chai. I'm sorry. There's no cure for him either. There's these other choices about that. It's very easy. to stay depressed. This is the past. I'm in the past. I'm depressed. I know what my day is going to be like and I know how it's going to end. So that's the routine. So I'm kind of in the the comfort of my discomfort. I know what that routine is. The other side of that is the future. Now in the future I might not be depressed because I don't know how that story is going to end. But you make people anxious. When you come into the present, into the unknown world, because you don't know where it's going to end, it comes with a little added anxiety. It's just, that's what it comes with. How could it not? It would be unnatural if it didn't, because you don't know, you don't know where that's going to come from. [BLANK_AUDIO] And that's the so that's part of these choices. He wouldn't be depressed anymore, but he would be a little more anxious about it. Yeah. But this is the side where is it a fear filled anxiety or is it and scary exciting anxiety because I don't know what's going to happen now. So maybe your friend is having a combination of, "I don't know him, you know, I'm already, you know, he's gonna have to, I'm gonna have to bill him for this pretty soon." I think the problem for him is how to stop. They have to move into the present. I'm in the past with some of the thought and I just, it's like, okay, I just have to wake up again. I might go through that process a thousand times in that day. Okay. While you're going through it, you're being in the present. You're waking up each time you go back to there. You wake up and you come back into the present. This is what that commitment is. But how can you focus on the moment? Well, by looking, something's always changing in the present. If you were to turn around and look out your window now, I bet there's, for one minute, is that a real outside there or is that just, is that the real outside? 我猜在那一分钟内,你可能会看到一根枝子动,或者是某些东西在枝子上爬着。这是我们现在的状态。我和卢森博士的谈话是在半年前,我本来无意播出它,可是这段时间我会持续收到很多人的来信,提到他们在承受政治预证的痛苦。 政治鬱症是目前仍然没有得到一个准确定义和广泛研究的命题这是因为心理咨询室的接受培训的时候被严格要求避免谈论政治这当中也有一定的合理性他们认为谈论政治会强化社会结构的一种强大的压力增加病人的无力感但是也有另一种声音说如果一直回避一直沉默这会加剧病人的内疚 这就是为什么卢森博士的文章会在中文世界中得到大量的传播因为他是极少数直接面对公众谈论这些话题的人所以在我们告别之前他提醒他希望在这个领域当中能够有更广泛更丰富的讨论因为病人带着痛苦在敲响临闯医生的大门就在此时就在此地我还想说我现在是在我正在在这些