大家好，欢迎回到视野环球财经，我是Rino，现在是美东时间二六年四月二十二号周三晚上的八点三十五分。今天的盘中啊，市场的短炒情绪是高烧不退，四大指数继续上涨，标普和纳指呢今天的上涨都是超过了百分之一。今天的软件IGV啊，收盘的时候离突破仅一步之遥啊，不过很可惜，盘后的这个ServiceNow的财报相当的不给力啊，大幅的拖累软件板块跳水，突破呢是功亏一篑。后面怎么看啊？等会儿呢会讲解，呃，不过呢，微软呢是已经完成了自己的救赎，成功实现了突破啊，后续看好，我在后面呢会蹲一个回撤的买点去加仓啊，等会儿也来讲一讲。另外呢，还有特斯拉的财报是先涨后跌啊，什么利好，什么利空啊，咱们都放到后边一会儿来讲啊。首先我们把今天的消息还是要给大家过一下，然后就讲财报。呃，今天的消息面上呢，实际上我们看到布伦特原油呢还在涨，对吧？呃，已经跑到了一百的上方。呃，主要呢，今天啊，实际上我大家可以发现最近的这个市场呢是原油、股市、债券，大家各走各的啊，互不相干，对吧？这个迹象看看上去好像非常的反常识啊，不过别着急啊，这个反常识的东西呢，终归有一天会回到常识上。呃，等会我们也放到后面给大家说啊，先把消息讲一下。呃，今天的消息面呢是美伊的紧张局势啊，这个现在呢是扑朔迷离啊，一会儿紧张一会儿松，呃，人们是越来越关注关于延长停火何时结束。呃，今天呢有媒体报道说啊，华盛顿希望在这个周日之前与伊朗达成协议。另外呢，Trump已将本周日定为最后的期限啊，这个和此前有一个报道说三到五天的期限相符。但是呢，路透这边又出来说，呃，Trump没有设定延长停火的时间表。还有呢，就是调停人巴基斯坦呢是透露，第二轮的谈判最早可能于周五举行啊。那么，Trump告诉纽约邮报说有可能，但是这个东西都不靠谱啊。呃，另外呢，根据呃伊朗那边的报道呢是这个呃塔斯里塔斯里姆通讯社啊，他说呢，伊朗目前没有决定周五是不是与美国进行谈判。还有就是伊斯兰革命卫队还是自己干自己的啊，在霍尔木兹海峡扣呃扣押了两艘商船啊，所以呢，现在大家相信看了昨天后面稍晚的新闻，应该了解到现在有消息传闻呢说伊朗那边呢是出现了分裂，对吧？因为伊朗那边目前呃就是从外交部门、行政部门和伊斯兰革命卫队的意见不统一啊，到底谁说了算？现在呢搞不清楚啊，所以现在变成了三方在里边搅浆糊。好，这个呢就是今天的一些呃这个消息，简单的过一下。接下来时间呢，咱们直接讲解个股。呃，首先我们来讲一下特斯拉啊。呃，特斯拉今天的这个情况呢，大家不知道怎么想啊？今天盘后呢是涨了差不多四五个点，然后又跌回来了，最终然后呢几乎是横着没动啊。我们把财报看一下，看看到底是发生了什么，为什么先涨后跌？好，我们看一下特斯拉第一财季的财报。营收是二二三点九亿，超过预期的二二幺点九亿，调整后的每股收益是四十一美分，超过预期的三十四美分啊。这个也是特斯拉连续第二个季度盈利超出预期。另外呢，毛利率是二十一点一，高于预期的十七点七。汽车的毛利率是十九点二，同比呢是之前是十二点五啊，下降了十二点五啊。呃，另外呢，其实市场比较关心的是它的自由现金流啊，因为之前呢有推测说应该会转负啊，结果第一季度还没有看到转负，但是呢后边确实会转负。自由现金流在一季度是正的十四点四亿，这个好于预期的负十八点六亿，主要原因是一季度的支出不到二十五亿，仅为公司全年支出预期所需平均季度的一半啊，就是它没有花完那么多钱。这个就使得特斯拉的当季实现了十四亿左右的正的自由现金流，超过市场预期的十八点六亿。可是呢，这个本来啊，财报在发布的时候是一些看上去不错的利好啊，财报的这个电话会议不是稍晚才进行吗？电话会议上呢就给的东西就不是那么的乐观了。首席财务官在电话会议上表示说啊，二零二六年剩余的时间，公司的这个自由现金流呢将为负值，而且预计二六年的资本支出高达两百五十亿，比之前的还增加了五十亿。那你这个相当于呃肯定是一个负值了。呃，至于问到为什么会变成负了，这个有没有风险的时候，呃，当时呢其实马斯克引用了一句话啊，说那其他的大公司不都正不都正在这么干吗？对吧？所以也就是说大家都是这样，因为很多的大型科技公司资本支出今年一完事儿，到了明年如果今年还不能在年底实现AI的这个货币化的就是投入和产出的这个效益，那到了明年如果还维持这么高的支出是显然不可能的啊，那会大幅的把自由现金流全部吞掉啊，大量的公司会转为负值，所以这是一个非常关键的节点啊，在今年一个是二季度，我们看在下个财年二七度的二七年度的这个资本支出的情况有没有减少，有没有预期的减少啊？就是前瞻。第二个呢是看今年的年底，这是第二个时间表，就是大型科技公司像什么微软、谷歌、Meta、亚马逊等等，他们的AI的资本支出能不能带来货币化的这个非常有效的转换啊？目前是差着一点点的。好，那么还有一个前瞻，呃，我们看一下前瞻还有别的啊。呃，那么谈到更为重要的机器人业务呢，公司预计首家大型的这个Optimus的工厂将于二季度投产。那么第一代生产线呢计划产能是一百万台机器人，将取代已经停产的这个Model S和Model X的这个生产线啊。这个消息呢因为之前啊不是两个车型都彻底停产了吗？后来还搞了一些这个限量版的邀请购买，对吧？我不知道咱们的这个听众观众朋友里边有没有受到邀请啊，去买了后面的限量款的这个Model S和Model X的。好，呃，那么这个呢就是目前特斯拉的第一财季的财报的基本状况，相信大家也看明白了，主要是自由现金流转负之后怎么办？如果明年还不好，那这个自由现金流的状况变差之后，它就会影响到公司的资产负债表啊，那这一块就有点麻烦，对吧？要么呢后面可能需要维持运营，就需要干嘛呢？融资啊，要么呢就是增发股票啊，这些东西呢大家在别的公司上都看得到，所以今年对于特斯拉来讲比较艰难啊。如果今年嗯很多东西不能够继续的产生更多的自由现金，那到了明年可能会更加艰难啊。所以呢特斯拉目前的状况呢，大家还是最好啊。你可以看它一个什么五年、十年的长线，那是超远期。你要是短期你只看个一年、两年的，那你最好呢是在较低的位置去布局长线仓位。呃，然后跟我一样啊，我就是较低的位置，比如说在两百以下。那么要么呢你就是跟着市场的大资金做波段啊，它现在还在这个波段区间，对吧？现在做的是什么？三百多块钱就是波段嘛，就是这个三幺五到上面的四六五的波段区间。好，那这个波段呃估值这边我就不更新了啊，仍旧还是维持以前的看法。长线上，那么特斯拉是几年之后的价格啊？从估值上肯定是几年之后的啊，因为这个我们就按照通用的这个估值方法，不管你是使用哪种，其实目前都是涉嫌比较高的啊。现在市场较高的目标价也给到大概就四百左右嘛，对吧？比较高一点的就是中位左右的四百多嘛。还有当然有高的，有五百的、六百的，那个我们是就去除一个最高数，去除一个最低数嘛，中间差不多大概就是三百多块钱是比较正常的。所以呢，呃，我个人呢不会去在这个价格去买长线啊。多次讲过，我只会在这些地方呢有波段的机会就期权投机投机波段啊，仅此而已，或者是做做其他的这个正股波段啊。最近的正股是没有怎么做波段的啊，基本上全部都是用期权在做波段。那这一波呢，呃，我这边只做了一点点，没做太多啊，做了差不多就做到这个三百八左右的这一小段做过啊，这个早就平仓了啊。现在的情况还是在一个大的一个区间之内，好吧？大的区间之内，呃，目前的波动呢，今天看起来到周五之前看看还有没有一些呃这个这个这个这个起伏啊？因为之前是四百块钱上下二十六块钱啊，往下的话差不多是在三百七十四、七十五啊，往上大概是在四百二十五、二十六啊，大概是这么个状况。好，呃，特斯拉呢继续慢慢等吧，呃，波段为主啊。好，接下来我们来说一下这个ServiceNow，呃，今天的状况相当的糟糕啊。呃，我给大家这个调出来看一下。今天的财报之后，盘后是一口气暴跌了百分之十三左右。我们先看它的财报细节。它的第一财季财报，呃，呃，它呢之前呢是呃包括像ServiceNow啊，包括整个软件的IGV是吧？是八个交易日大幅上涨啊。我们讲过，这里边又主要是空头的回补导致的。呃，它的这个今天的这个下跌，其实我们看到后面一众的这个SaaS类的股票啊，或者软件相关的股票都是在大幅下跌啊，主要就是它下调了这个前瞻的利润率啊，这是最主要的啊。它的财报细节是一季度调整后的每股收益是九十七美分，与华尔街的预期一致。那么营收呢是增长百分之二十二到三十七点七亿，略高于预期的三十七点五亿。这个财报没什么太大问题，对吧？但前瞻太差了。前瞻呢是公司把这个结果呢归咎于中东冲突啊。二零二六年的第一季度，由于中东冲突持续，几项大型的本地部署交易的完成时间被推迟，导致订阅收入增长受到差不多七十五个基点的不利影响。那么这个展望就反映了对二零二六财年剩余时间内交易时间还有可能受到地缘政治不利因素的这个审慎评估。反之啊，如果中东地缘政治解除了，那么对它就是个利好啊。那它这个逆风的前瞻呢就会转正。好，这是第一个。第二，第二季度的订阅收入呢将增长约百分之二十三，达到三十八点二亿，略高于市场预期的三十七点五亿。那么二季度调整后的利润率的预测是二十六点五啊，这个比市场的共识三十点一低了太多了，这个是导致暴跌最主要的原因。全年营业利润率三十一点五也低于它之前自己给的百分之三十二。那么首席执行官表示说啊，他预计二零二六年人工智能的收入将达到十五亿啊。大家看一下啊，二零二六年啊，现在才第一季度，整个一年才十五亿，高于之前预测的十亿，有上调，但是后面还有三个季度呢，上调的并不多，增长的并不快。这个说明什么问题呢？今天德意志分析师在财报后，他有一份报告，其实就直接切中了这个问题的要害。他说啊，我们认为业绩管理层的评论很难缓解人们对人工智能在中期内可能带来的颠覆性影响的担忧。这个括号里是我补充的啊，我自己补充的。他的意思就是他们这些公司的传统的软件公司的自身AI工具发展太慢，带来的营收贡献太少，它跟不上其他的大型的AI的这个迭代速度。大家可以看到，你像这个Cloud对吧？他们的这个里边的很多的产品，包括其他的一些对标的Gemini的产品，他们很快，那他们还很慢。他们现在呢，我们说软件公司一直要证明就是这个AI对我来讲到底是辅助工具还是能颠覆我的啊？这是处于两者处于一个这个我们说这个叫做什么叠加态对吧？你说它能够辅助我，那你要带来大量营收吧？如果没有给你带来大大量营收，你怎么叫辅助你呢？那么如果其他的AI公司做出了同质化的产品，它有没有可能抢你的市场呢？其实市场担心的不就是担心这个吗？所以我们在说他们的东西都需要靠财报来证明。如果你证明你自己确确实实跟得上、跟得快，那大家就没有担忧，代表你发展的很好，那你这家公司就脱颖而出了。AI让你变得更好了。如果你发展的慢，那么大家就担心你会不会被取代。所以还是那个老话题啊，这是今天呃ServiceNow它大跌的最主要的原因。好，讲完了之后呢，我们来讲讲它的前瞻估值和目前的这个状况。呃，从基本面上来看，其实没有什么太大调整的啊，因为本季度的业绩和全年业绩利润率有小幅下滑，但是整个的营收呢有小幅上调，所以抵消了差不多。呃，我觉得这边没有做大幅的调整，但是还是要提醒大家，由于它的增速是在百分之二十以内的啊，而且利润率有下滑，并没有上调，所以现在的市场呢，它本来是一个高倍增长，对不对？我们之前一直在说它是个高倍增长状况，那它就是一个很明显的低估。可是如果按照现在这个状况，至少在这个季度来看，它还是维持这个前瞻，那这种情况，那二十到三十倍就是合理的喽。合理的就意味着那么二六年的中位是一百零一，二七年的中位是一百二，这个价位就是合理的啊。现在哪怕下跌到九十块，这个价格也是市场合理的。那么你说跌到八十块以下，就上次的这个低点八十一块以下，那就真正的无论从哪个角度来看都是低估了。但现在的价格确实已经不高啊。如果你真的相信它的AI工具在二六年发展的很好，二七年会更上一层楼的，那你应该抓住这些低估的机会去找它，对吧？那下方呢，特别是八十二到九十五是一个比较强的，我更新过了啊，一个支撑。上方我把压力两个压力合并了啊，因为这一轮跌下来之后反弹上去，盘后跌下来之后合并了，让大家比较好记啊。一百到一百二中间其实是两个压力，非常的密集，非常非常的强压力，非常密集，我干脆就合到一起算了，所以才有这个百分之二十这么宽，实际上是两个突破才才能够止跌，好吧？突破之后它才能够真正的完成止跌。好，这个呢是ServiceNow目前的技术面和基本面的状况。好，呃，讲完它呢，我呃顺带把IGV也给提一下。IGV的情况，昨天啊，大家还记得吗？我们昨天因为有过一波上攻啊，所以我们昨天呢在之前的基础上更新了它的技术面。昨天更新的技术面的这个位置呢是八十八点九啊，八十八点九收盘价或者开盘价八十八点九突破为准。今天的收盘价是八十八块七，就差这一步。如果今天没有ServiceNow的财报这么糟糕，它如果是个很好的财报顶上去了，那IGV明天就应该是突破了。但很可惜，就差这么一丢丢。呃，那么今天呢？由于今天最高的位置啊已经去到了最高的价格八十九块钱，所以呢，在这个比较关键的位置呢，今天成交量在这个位置也不小，所以呢，我依旧为了保险起见，仍旧会给大家继续上调大概一两毛钱，八十九块一啊，以今天的高点这个位置往上突破一毛钱，这个呢是一个比较稳妥的做法啊，因为今天在上方又有新的成交啊，最终收盘嘛，因为今天也没站上去嘛，所以今天又更新了一次啊，八十九点一，好吧，二十二号四月二十二号进行了更新啊，八十九点一，昨天是八十八块九，今天是八十九点一，因为今天盘中有交易，最高的时候去到过八十九块钱。好，这个是IGV这边，那它到底还有没有机会再形成这个突破呢？我们说从基本面上看，今天ServiceNow肯定是带来了一个雷嘛，它带来的是一个炸弹嘛，它不是一个利好。基本面上肯定是又被锤了一波。那能够让它走的还是我们说空头回补到底继不继续的问题。在昨天就在今天没有ServiceNow这个事这个财报之前，空头回补其实还在继续，对吧？我们说它的力量已经走了一大半了，但是是不是说它一定会停下来呢？所以我们才要看IGV能不能够实现突破，能够带来更多的主动买盘的介入。那现在还没有突破，那就看主动买盘现在还买不买喽？空头回补还有没有？还有啊，但是每一天都在逐渐的被消耗，因为它的高点在逐渐往上走嘛，每一天都在被消耗，消耗的力量越小，那么空头回补的力量就越弱，剩下的就要靠多头的主动买盘去推了。那IGV这边现在我们看看主动买盘在今天市场呢有过一波呃软件的下跌之后，他们还会不会往上这个买一点啊？我们看看后面的价格走势就知道，就是能不能过，能过那就代表大家还要继续往上推嘛。你过不了，明天跌下去之后没人买，跌的更深了，那不就是代表暂时就要又熄火了嘛？就又要停一停了。好，呃，那么IGV这边呢，暂时它今天尽管下跌了一两个点，盘后但位置不差啊，不算太差，还在第一个强支撑的上方。呃，我个人认为它仍旧保持着能够正吧正吧的这么一个机会啊，不是说马上拐头向下走空了，仍旧有机会去这个上面去这个耗一耗啊，因为没有跌破任何的支撑位置，还在八十七块钱、八十六块多啊，还在这个位置上方，所以问题我觉得呃现在就说不是立马直接转成又什么见顶看空了啊，没有这个看法。暂时呢，我认为还需要博弈一段时间，我们才看好吧，还是有机会能够往上。为什么说有机会呢？因为今天的微软是其中的一个比较大的，我们说大的一个持仓嘛，对吧？那微软的大的持仓权重占比也比较大。微软今天是已经突破了的啊，微软今天是四百三十块钱，早四百三十二块钱，它突破四百三已经完成了结构性的右侧的突破。这个结构性右侧的意思不是说今天涨完之后，明天叭叭叭叭就往上涨一根直接拉上去，指的是它的下行趋势已经被很好的遏制住了，那么后面就会形成低点抬高、高点抬高的过程。那么低点抬高，大家可以理解吗？就是价格可以跌啊，只要比之前的低点高就行。但是高点只要比之前的高点也高有也就行，因为它是螺旋式上升、螺旋式下降过程嘛，也就意味着今天的突破之后，它从螺旋式下降转为了螺旋式上升的这个结构，但是它的位置不会走得很快啊。我提醒大家，因为微软的波动水平现在即便有下个星期的财报，市场压住的波动。 Not high, ah, not very high. It is a slow-moving stock, and its beta is not high. So please remember, do not think that ah, if it breaks through, I will directly rush it. Then how? How? If you rush it like this, it may, especially if you prepare to use options to rush, friends, ah, it may take time to exhaust all your options. Okay, so I hope you are cautious. Ah, this is a long-term view. Ah, after breaking through 430, it is a long-term view. Upward structure, upward. Well, then the long-term view is upward. Then how will the short-term be? How will I buy? Since it has broken through, ah, we have already talked about it. After breaking through, entering the right side, I will squat for a pullback. Ah, the main reason is because I mentioned a small technical detail in yesterday's program. Microsoft is now a in yesterday, including today, are all above the top of the buyers. This above the top of the buyers, short-term can still continue to rise, can ah, but the above the top of the buyers is very strong. If it does not pull back, it will also pull back. Ah, it is the problem of early and late declines. This, this, this, this, everyone can understand, right? It must fall, 100% will fall. Ah, it is the problem of early and late declines. So, if this problem exists, my idea is that the structure has changed, so I am not in a hurry. Especially since I already have 10% of the position, I am even more impatient. Then I will squat for a small pullback. The position I expect to recover is estimated to be between 410 and 421. I will go and add 4% of the position. Okay, I will add this position. Uh, then its real support is 397 to 430 range, ah, but I squat in the middle, estimated in the middle 410 to 421 will squat this pullback, and then go to add positions. Okay, this place will be added at any time. When it appears, you will add it. Ah, this place does not need to wait for the stop loss pattern. In this range, ah, because it has formed a strong support, its movement will be faster. When it comes down, it may directly buy it. Ah, so I may spread and hang some orders in this one. Ah, I usually don't hang them, but I will tell you that I will hang some orders in this one. Well, this is the current situation of Microsoft. Uh, if you say that it directly breaks through, what should I do? Break through, as I said, I already have a position, so I don't care. It will still have to pull back. I'm not in a hurry to chase it. I'm not in a hurry, okay? Well, then, uh, let's talk about the others briefly. Ah, uh, for the stocks that have already reached new highs, for example, AMD, ah, has already reached new highs. We have already talked about it before. I want to clear its position. It is better to be closer to 350. Ah, because it is new high. Uh, now it is moving faster. Ah, if it appears earlier, I will be earlier to clear it. The main reason is to reduce the concentration of the sector. Ah, because the risks of AI and related upstreams are concentrated in the second half of the year and the end of the year. There are risks at these two time points. If there is a risk, it will come out. If there is no risk, it will continue to rise. Ah, if it continues to rise, it may rise to 400, 500, or 600, right? Because the management's goal is, I, I, I have already updated it for you. You can take a look. Uh, in November last year, the company's forecast was that the EPS for 2028 would reach $20. The expected price is between 600 and 800, with a median of 700. However, Wall Street's forecast for 2028 is that the EPS is around 10. 18. The expected price, according to the forward price, is between 305 and 407. This is a little far apart, isn't it? This is a company's forecast, and this is Wall Street's forecast. So, there are still two and a half years for him to achieve this goal. If he succeeds, his price will reach 600-700, which is completely fine. It's no problem to double. If he doesn't complete it, the upper limit will not reach 400 yuan. Then it is the top, right? Then it has already been held up. In addition, with the overall slowdown in AI spending, it is not top. So, this is just to see how the management operates. The management is confident, but Wall Street's confidence seems slightly less. So this is my reason for clearing the position. Ah, it is to reduce the concentration. Because I still have Nvidia, and my first major position is still there. So I don't want to make the position too concentrated. It is in one basket. Well, this is a new high stock. Another is Amazon. Amazon is also a new high stock. Today's closing price is a new high. Although there was a high point of 258 before, today's closing price is a new high. This new high stock will continue to wait for it to continue to rise. Ah, continue to rise. Okay, after breaking through 236, it has already achieved the new high target. This is not urgent. Continue to hold and wait. Then Google is close to a new high. Google has broken through 325 and has entered the right side. The target is a new high. The previous 349 is not a high point. There will be a new high. Google has also introduced a new TPU, right? And Nvidia is competing for market share. In fact, it cannot be called competing for market share. These are two different paths, right? One is customization, and the other is generalization. So, for him today, you can see that he has risen by more than two points. Today, Nvidia's performance is slightly slower, rising by 1. 31. But Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance is still slow. Nvidia's performance