Everyone In the In fact in China Before first say our this time we're this time a very social change. They don't find foreign government strong and can't I call it called to it is being The people can't do this disease of the disease a lot of the disease One, from the morning To open eyes, eyes and and the eyes and the whole keep up, stop, and then, social media, the in the deep-eis-dhirt in the time, in a time, see-tina, a time, the "Mohmoh, some people's "'moh, "'moh, more money, "'wee' "moh, "'hury, and it became "'the free-jit, "'moh, one-moo-goa, "'one, 'yeye-bunquote-sum-quay-sum-hue. "'This years, "'the-same, the "'samehs' "'Their-s'-bun'-bun.' The Chinese is quite familiar to, like "TUnguhron, the "Chiefs, ''Unquay Run, "'Olleyn't' "'Ponkoy Run,' "'Dent, and, "'and,' "'this bengue-blown, "'their's benguebord's "'the same one-hing, "'justs an person, "'that's a bit strong-dak, "'and-but-cru-cuit, "'and-one-we-he-ly-ly-ly-like-li-like-ly-li-ly-li-lie-lie-l. Bunkhruan-hund-hore: like "Suiingews, fide, find-foo-chew-to-few-fin-one and 'punuchy, like greek-sy-shoot, social-lea-hound, like gate-touching, like "Ginmin' chou-tttttund." Chinese-o-o-o-cuhrush-kied and ch'-chew-trak-she, and to hear-t, down-hye, "Go-n-hue-bun-lquay In a They're Their own They're They're And they're But one But one One of One-e- One-e- One-Haw- Their own Their Their From a First, "E End-the-C- This is the state will get people will be a year times when you in 2009 999 In 2009 9% In European Israel people in people live in their people they think when when we're at the Zanxin' new-thin'n will come in They'd bea-mai-sachan, their own night jute-day-the-cathed-chit-chit-tie-tow, and the next-er-sum-er-scent-pand-a-tall-heat-a-chuskker. But, the m'en-a-tenth-nion-scient-kind-old-kind-hean-heat-old. The world didn't bring-kind-kind-n't come-lain. Today, a lot of living in 21st century of "Ponquay-Lwner, and 1,000 years' those waiting Mawrugh-Roehschen, and the people who are the same type, they're just a "telling'all just a time' time' time, and to get-one-the-one-all-win-the-thead-all-went, the "tuechewscent." They put the change of the hope, completely keep on a chance they're not able to control, and can't uncturned, all the natural, jubene, China will be unquay, or not going to be unquay, world will be bankrupt, this all isn't quite a bigie of real thing. Just like the economician, Kainz said the word, we're going to beckixt, we're When China will be down quay, when the money would be bankrupt, and when one would be die like, this question there's no any point. The question is no one people know the point just like no one knows what someone who's someone die and Those Some To find she That's Ande That bonquy Those are some The whole Looker The New Woe But they Today's today's Sure These Keymoney There's And there Their own And then They Have you In fact In fact In fact Now Now it has It's It's different And Alley And it It's Newer Other There's Again Like Like Cous Like Like Youe While You-Wbort Board Bout And Dand The country is the the most difficult thing. He never not like the experiment in doing so much the experiment and they're going to be used to be used the result, from the history of from the history has been has a very strong of own own reason need a different geor and chivalre, and the one of the key one's the one's the key and the key people, people, people, to be the key and do all the way and all the way and all the general country's the country, North, North, but Last year 80 years, almost no, no one of the world but the Soviet but then the Soviet a lot of a very a big strong a and it's a but it's a day, and that's why? No, no one know, because because His king's "Heauze with a very "'todeuid of 'tide's "'theircuit of any-spin-hocan-y-win-insue, "'tummanned the allurrensing, "'tunmend-chouement-knowing, "'as-all-ean-knowing-out-the-chew-nongue, "'all-know-noyan-all-sha-shawn-kind-like, "'the-saint-shy-sign-line-tel. "'He's way-lay-out-out-the-she-cane-tell-the-cue-ckel.' Recently, on the on the world has been going to beaupon there's all different kinds of and people all of a while those people will get to they're they're they will they're This is they're their "What their food' "'They're like the end up' "'Just like a year' "'Keep like a few-cheele-call "'can' "'Shupt'haping' "'Thom' talk-the-the-suech-Lon-what-you-hear-hean'-a-win-hue-hue-hyeye "'that'-knowing-wehulled-hack-he-welled-he-hean-hame-hear-oh-he-hear-he-he-hue-stststst-hear-oh-the-hue-he-he-the-stst-oh-the-he-cue-cccest. To say to China Bunkue Lund As a state In fact, you ask when he will be going to be going this question not really just like like the people will be not even and it has been one one will be when it will be and no people never people and no Maybe is May 5 years, maybe is 200 years in the in the in the question. This is a not really no one because human human not, the human computer or the technology and can't do not, who can do not and so can't do it, but it can't do all there's The Chinese and the English world's Bunkue Lund are used in the U. World's being a weak now is in the world but it's still in the state. But the country and is a not a not a human's not just a body and is a human and is a human and a human and the human and the can't be the human and can't become quite and the can't back. The body-wrot-dor-being, but the state is normal. A country is the same. The economy can't very much, but the people are in being in a point-jointed we can't not just look it as it as a way and it's the way, and it also as it's a-gene-the-eming-the-em is its culture, his culture, his culture, his culture, If we're going to see this one, look the world, look the people's it's all to becky over it, is history of the history that's been not the future at least the end of going to be going to be a hundred years. Over the 100 years, it's been in the end up been in the time. This is we in the in the next-mean show in front-fuechre, "What-nichens, modern-o-sets, and then-o-o-mine-hore, the modern-o-o-womening-haw, yaw-hye, and, "Chicester, a country, the country, the world's whole-mepet, was in a hundred-year before, and, these 100-year each of the years in the time, it's in the course, the process. We're this day of our our first-de-day-men are this kind of part-wet, all live in the pain-un-quay-of-the-cure on. Many people are uner-n't-be-cue, just in the state-sha-sha-sha-dent maybe-to-the-one or maybe they'll-he-she-could-the-cone the world-the-cun-cun-cun-cun-punthuskkonged. Today this show, we'll get a on the world to get-of-as-the- people-as-the-cuit-lun to get-poh to get-poh and the mental-the-cuit- and also-e the history-sach--the-counter- of the real-mew-send-bunquote. The most important is, we have to think, as a way to give to right-being, to keep in life, in the human-sense, in the nature, we should be able for our own-shue, how to set up on top-quay-the-concuit world? Bunkerlun, why is so young-o-one-yield? In this case, in this, in this, in-merecouping, in this Bunkhwin-un-hurt-hore-hocan people, they can't be to the country-the-conciful-the-counter, it's the ""punquote is a great-so-seawater-whoin' "What-turbish-kinded' 'tubeau-tube-hore-fut-fut-can-can-khanes-hacken to 'octurned "'It's people' They're their origin, the education, education, the state, and the different different things, but there is a one of the point of the country, that's full of end up much, and it, and they have a one and a unty kind of that we can't unhing, and abh land, lot, and it's un-and- to-e--tru-all- to--to-the- but, and they, and there, some, it's-e-e-e--e-he-e-e-he-l-e, But, whether it's in the in the or in the on the all can see that people who people who people that's that's that's the way, and the China, and the China, it is a good, He can be able to unresue, but can't get anxiety, but yet the way, you know, it's true, won't get into things, even to make the same, even to be, the brain, the point-e need-each, all, all out-bought- to, all-boh- and people, and then people are not happening, is the beginning, is the un-st-n--stom-stom--l-he- people, we need- to- what-you--all-e-lue, I'm-o-e- They just need to be a smart pan-guaner, do-date, and the time-dean down, the state-as-un-as-one down-tah. This is a sort of get-tot, and then-in-li-de to choose to tauting, and then-e-e un-quoise. Bunk-Len-Bas-Squoise. The world is hundooned-de-do-e-e-kodd-o-e-court-ed. And in the English Lengtho on there are no-crum and at any time at least play play a way a country of the country's the country and it's not any country security social and people and and many different and the various and the different and the and we to understand this process of more another side need to need need to be and a power of and power and that and then it's a big way and it way of a way and so much he told people, he's not quite all that it don't get-be- and just to draw- the main matter about, such the money, like the money, like money, the all things all right and get, just bengue a new and get, This is So it's saying that To have a Toecee Toeux Toe Toe Parte Forbable Toe Toe Toee Toe Toee It's There's Aeuxe Ends'e Ueuer And Ine Bumque Duxe Speeckh Feeeeing, Manchus Dut Ducat is a free Many of the Bunkerlundsians, but they've been being being know of the truth, they've had the the people, and the people, and they're being hume, Bunkue Lundian Choirsendez, can from every one-e-sacru, public-sue, every one-of-bigh-and-cient, and each other's-estabru-she-stand, even every-yaw-jolk, get-due-uncrues-buncuit-un-un-cuit-one. Of course, there's a good-y-hound, that actually is a sort of their think-hound and them from this one-being-the-chact-to-the-kind of a great-gand-o-dew-dun-dict-a-cuit-cuit-clicing quickness This kind of makes them enduing to build their communication in the time and in a time and in the the following and the process in today by the world being being free social media the side social media and the A A Bunkerun-Lund's in social media Ones Many Mews and bengue-lun- and end-seng they've by since they're like back the world like and it's like the ancient-the-tank d'zan-st everyday time, those the data, every day were the every day are the times Bunkerlund, the sthirt was the flow, their people, their people, their people, and the allude and the rest get to get to the and the time, and the time, the stuff, but the bank and also, and the change, the change, and I'm going, and I'm going, and I'm, and we're being to the time, We're every in in life in all need a little energy and the same misnety of the human have you and that if you can't you're in being in the end of and it's end-and-a- and in weak in being will get people and people can't make the human the life and the money took to you take the time Pemkeh-lund patients in the in the of the in the while there's a very very good have a board and the vaux down to the and the Saddam d'all and they they've been down they're a big and a big and happen but that history and and History, from from form from than the long than the per little. Bunkue the course can be years, even the years, many years, many years, the of the point of the moment, and it's the long, the end of the time, the time, that is where it time, that it's all over and there all of the history and chow and it, can't get, but you The history-tonged-the-court, Loma D-Ci-Court, in the Kong-Ean 476-N, but the U.S.C., in Loma, City, 6,000, could not feel the people the country's at the coming. Loma D.C.O.M.D.C. The.R.A.D.O.M.A.R.R.A. people, could, also, was, thought, was the. Loma, the was the period, is a short 200 years of a time from from a grand year, from the the government came to end up the country, the world the same often be mass, and it's going to pay, we're going and we're getting, and we're getting, it, per cent, the people, the country, , back-man-suits, but not yet yet, down, d'n't, though still on, down-being-scient-old, but the Roman culture's life-ly, the Roman-man-the-con-ship, and Lerma-man-in-the-con, and the empire of and the democracy link-egris, the the country and life-life life-like-like- life-e and the human-kind all-each- all the so-wee the way so-wee just was a long-sach--of-a- body and die-l in-a-mye. For life at the people Manchang Shrellae people To be not a thing, but is a day they're a normal day, they're getting the amount, they're less than and the life more than life, and days and the day all day and go back be the It is old It is Olde No one Can't Unctue UyN, that's the last one the end of when it's when we this is a point It's a process It's a question, it's a not a point from the history on the and it not you know that there no no one know So, the current-in-the-bun-lund chintinged to the country debt-e-of-the-farm tax-pand-pile power-mort, and the market, the cost-suit, trying to try to the point they might from the first they've been asked the question. The real question is, that a name called the the name is the name is the name is the footland is from what is the life and the life, his life, his life, is or is not already lost the life this question this question, it's China as a culture and social community, its break, it's a way of the future, it's a long, it's a long, this this time this is not the human and it, but is the culture level on, and the and the He's to be the people have been two-year and in un-send-li- life-the-e life. So-wee a need-s-scied is a world, it's a whole full-the-suit--the-tale-a-t world-each-ty-each and ultimate-guan- and the moral-pans. In life in life, there are some of the basic question. I'm who from where from where I'm from where I can how I can't how other people, with society, and the human rights, what's life, what's life, is what, the meaning, the world, for these questions to give them the end. In traditional China, this is the world is the Ghii, and the Ghii, and the later rung-rued to the Fahe, these ideas, is a very stable system. He through three-gang- and five-tang, it's the people in the society's in the world, the same, the-un-tun-chens-fu-sit. He, through the human-he-en-kind can-in-kind-of-sure, and it built-the-chews. And, also, also, it built-in-the-chew-chew. The "Hong-Tis' His own in the Ten-Daw, otherwise there will be ten-zai-en-erun-en-hought. He's a way a-shrou-shrou-she-er, his wife, living-the-state, and to-one-le-le-keeping, and their own-man-the-cha-of-kind-like-kind-lian. He has human-e-li-sit-sign-right-to-do-s, have shes-seh-shring-eat-eat, also the guise-con-con-lund-ting-s, the system-the-seh. This is the traditional Chinese-Gi-Rew-Len. Whether chau-de, whether it's-o-tete, whether the world-sum-and-with-the-kind-of-kind-old, the gins-sher-kind-old-kind-he's-wun---cue-old. It just like a process system's and the code and we're people's the key to human, way, and the way, and the form of Chinese, China, was the people's full-of-, but a total the hongue land the long-and- long-to- long-t long-t human-n-sh He became more, and more, and more free, and then lost the new energy, it was he started the foreign un-the- not even in the its' its'e and it's a human people, and there's no one to and no way the more than people, started to open eyes and see the world. They've seen a more grander, a more wide world, and the more than the world. In their time, they've seen, this new meaning world can't, can make the world more frown, can't make sure, can't live the more like people. They've ever been lairé, and Yi-E-Sir-Stade-tall-it-to-tall-is-haping, is the "I-Eyeeat'" Tzu-Ni-E-E-E-Streat. "Chief.'" They're in the traditional-E-E-Ey-E-Strees'is-Gent-Tewscied, but their "On't.'" They're the fat-digit Maherly too much la-bue-o-bath di-pand. They've tried, they've got to failed, and refis and then years, and once, a short-O-U-Shee revolution, but only totally mackxed Chinese, the world, and it's end-of-e- and just- end of the world-e-e-she- and-s-s-s-e-e-s-s-e--scied. The Chinese-a-of-suff-eer-she-h man-eis-hism became-hrund, the "hundred-hundred-hundred-hye-Svirt. This "hosephi-eut, manhound, un-human-kind-and-hound, "What-man-one-one-the-one-the-one "anyldean' "'Yes.""""""" """"beckxerned"""—'a.................................................................... Poughchen in it in the people found they're in the situation someone people who got this kind of social world so they in the human people all already being be hong people and those those people and people people and know people are the world is But, the end-li-womened-haired world, is not a-z-a-seat-goon, and yet-a-scied-farm. This is a huge, mangerned of mind. This is a huge, monger to the fernsense. This is today's state. "Chimposition 't know how much 't people," "'It is unknowingly, "'hurt of human-hury-of-eat the natural chis-hue "'and, and, during, you know, "'he, not even, you don't really "'recento-wean's true "'of-scian human's "iscibility and "'their socialism.' "'Theircertains d'all-phingo-oan-oensook-o-ogean-oing of "Suching,' but you from the and the to see the and to the world to be the human like the human rights like people to like government and then the the future is the the state the country in the countries in and it's But it was a good-monged, and crue, and great-to-fen-let. He has been able to the world-to-the-air but create-be-could-is-to-was-concined and the world-concented and the world. He built-a-mort-tian-tale, she rebuilt the world-laidstsame-chew-tall-cuit, but found-ent-one-kind-all-know-she-in-cline-kind-he-all-all-he-all-all-all-all-he-per-ppppye-cep-all-all-all-pppppppppppppppppye— In the politics and and the economy all the world-min are the end up because the people are the common the world, no one, there's not, and it's a pan sandsh, the country no-nugue and there, and there's to keep the people, he's from small to quote hate-o- and the hate-o- and the people- all-o- and- become-the- people- people-the- people-the- people-the- and-the-cue-l-l- This is the people's the world and the world's and the people's the whole break state. So, the people people's people, it's world, not it's not the future, not the event, but is a time, but it's already been a history There are people would ask, if people's people's people's world, the people's really been quite, why why China's the world, especially the country, the country, and it's like it's that's the strong-to- even than ever ever ever ever ever ever more more than This is the issue of the other level. Eighty-is-state of bump-tah, it's not that is not that it would be it not that would be it to be it, and to result, it's soon, road-send to die-send-scied. The Dutte to in the point in the year and the piece of life life and the life use in the world by the way to say it's just not life life this is today people human culture he he and and this is for the is over all over all the value of the high value. person, and human's right, freedom, and, and, and, and, and, and, in the world, in terms, all can't, and in front, all can't do. When a society, if you're iner-shan-shan-to-ye-true, this sort of, chloe-lora-o-o-lo-to-sense and the This kind of "housel but I'm alive-the-coomming "'Cincent' "'This is of a needy-eigh-of-eas spirit "'fewed the country, "'their-of-weean-a-oh-anness-ty, "'tea, can't say, "'chang-darder, "'in'-send-sign-ly. "'Hecithed, it's great-de-caught-a-lusts. "'If you have a-court-in-a-oh-hack-hulled-wack-he-he-st-oh-he-hach-he-ststead-old, "'the-most-most-most-summer-heal-height-all-heul-estest, This is a state should the people have an over-assioned large and the rule of the world can keep should down and free free be russed but there is still un-cuit but if you can't not touch that the life-not- would- not-the-time will be big-as- great- The second, this kind of state that makes use-use-suit and human-the-freight to be the right-of-farted when the system-due and the need-eachue and be seen-wit-pye-few-pile, even-weigh-and-were-woh-thought-hulled-hocet, when we will put-o-stoying to do-so-cest-could-the-cest-could-court-all-could-court-old-old-hulling. Like, to buy children-court-old-offon. The entire society has been a big-lety-chang. The United States, not even though and it is making money, to earn through their own to their own. So, and the people are the kind of people, put on the government, and we need to be new-the- new-as- the system, The history of the people in the in the world, often because of the technology and it's not able to control the world's and the people's and the people's, the end up to the but yet, but today, the, of the security, the cationshiphip, the, and the world, form-hawater, social-shing, the system, and the control of the social to the mow-toe, He's in-suret of-fact and in-eastern and even-eastern mial-the-melfare by the present-the-fight un-earned-earned and then can't-earned human-earned sum-hers we can can be in a full, a full, all-and-one- A ho-bunquy-jessing-nigh-Nay-hore, and out-being-boucordes-of-stall-coct-coct-coqqqqqa-con, and co-court-the-court. That is why the physical-bunquay, not so much This system just like ayieie to get on a genie he's not like he's she might even can't keep in the human can't keep up and he but his mind and his soul his soul his life his life and the all already and all I'm He can keep a machine foresight to be down to continue with the right and keep to keep continue to keep up we keep we're doing we're seeing what the human all even pan-t world and and the people and the government and have Now, as a a good-being a good-exist-e of a way to do you? It's not can't just can't in the just can't get in the break-as-a- and quiet-e in-d-e in-h-e and-e-e-each-e--all-e-e- end-cue? We can't quickly change this not means this is not really the way of the only the only the way the first people the most thing is think how much everyone every need need and but a but it's a sure people can't be able and can't be being We're back to Gingekist that word In the long run we are all dead From long From long-in' We're all dead This word This word It's hard It's said It's said a simple but But we We're We're today today today today And we There's There really And we're life is a limited, honged last, world's, world's, the way of the world, and the way, these things we can't quite, more cannot control. We only certain is we're going to move to death. So, the real question just the end a, in the world's time, we're doing our own one of two-two of our own body, what we're To have this start-uped the start-down A-R-sign person a lot of people would not in to be in great-bun- to the poor-a- and the time-a- in-s- not-s-sac--capea-chus to-a- human, lack-of-scient and the precious living. A good-signed-person to look-wonged-up-counter, from far-cun-court-court, to the yet-cun-cocooned-neigh-sur-con-nigh-the-nid-the-space and the other-been-con. This means to build our own-seeked our own-o-been-welled. Since that, the gung-cun-a-work-the-art, we need-ttall-a, a-wean-wa-to-build-sso, and to make-ock-sou. To read, to think, to learn, to get what is freedom, what is right, what is right, what is human's and what's human rights, what is what is human, what isishe, the process, is a good-being, it's a good-establishment, is a core-being, co-gain, a strong-sit-suecheworth, the process. When you go-geting to get-gued-cue-to-cap-go-cant-cy-kind-chang-ty-chang-a-sue, you'd be without need to beck-a-lain, to marbid-scied-allied and pain, to re-execkel and pain. Your inner-send system not can become your own-same, also be your family, your friends, your friends, your community, your community, A local in the community, also the community, and also the network. We're in the community. In the community, in a community, do a good responsibility and do a good to get a single person, get a different thing, and in his own way, to make sure your voice, that perhaps your sound your sounder, you will beware, it will be able and you can't hear you. In a In-Dycelling, in a In a great-punquote, you can't see-not- When you can't see-being that you can't this is a a strong You live in you, you have and you know, know, but still don't without, without self-hap, not even you, this type, it's a "d' As to the world, the body's body of bonged, it, maybe will happen, maybe you'll have been happening. To you to say, the most important is, when he was when you're not the time down the time's state, you'd say to her, second, bump her. This just need, every georgeing of new people, from today start, joste go to its, Thank you.