[音樂]7月份中國經濟最引人矚目的一件大事是中共中央突然對市場發出了一個強烈的信號他們真的要在反內捲和去產能上動真格了 7月1號中央財警委員會第六次會議明確表示要治理企業低價無序競爭7月24號中共黨刊《求是》雜誌發表文章深刻認識和綜合整治內卷式競爭 其實啊 早在去年7月30號的政治局會議當中"反內捲"這個詞就有史以來首次出現在中國高層工作會議當中當時過了一年 明顯沒有任何成效之後中央似乎決心要親自下場 解決這個問題啦 那麼為什麼中共突然覺醒要去產能反內捲呢?他們能成功嗎?更重要的是中央覺醒反內捲會改善普通人的生活嗎?今天我來給大家深入分析這些問題 好 那麼我先來問大家一個問題為什麼中國GDP從疫情以後依然每年都在5%左右的速度增長但是錢卻越來越難賺了呢有些人可能會簡單粗暴的說一句很簡單 國家統計局造假 我雖然也不信任中共,但像GDP這樣的數字,你只能說它可能有點虛高,但全盤造假,把負的說成正的,那也不太可能。我更願意相信高善文在去年那場著名的演講中所做的總結,那就是中國GDP數字虛高了3%左右。 但即便是扣除了3%中國經濟今年上半年的增速依然還有2.3%那也不至於是現在大家實際感受到的這種情況小企業大量倒閉大企業降薪裁員青年找不到工作等等為什麼經濟數據明明還在增長大家的財富卻沒有得到提升呢 That's because for a production economy like China GDP is measured by the number of output increases And how much output and how much income you have Actually has nothing to do with it If your production is largely invalid That is, production without profit Even production with loss Then your GDP can be very high But it won't have any effect on the income of the people 結果就是大家都很忙 都很累但其實都是瞎忙你一切的努力只是浪費了時間和精力但其實並沒有帶來價值而目前中國從企業到個人就是陷入到了這樣的一種狀況當中也就是所謂的內捲中共知道如果中國企業繼續這樣內捲下去產能過剩必將帶來無法遏制的通縮問題 Let's quickly do some What is the reason for the collapse of China? Maybe you already have some basic concepts But you may not understand it completely It's worth listening again 通縮就是通脹的翻譯詞也就是整個社會的平均物價不斷在下降那麼很多人可能就有一個疑問了就像習近平曾經問他的支囊團們的那句話通縮有什麼不好大家難道不喜歡物價更便宜嗎 幸亏习近平身边的经济学家们现在明显已经教会了他对一个国家的宏观经济来说通缩不仅不好而且有可能是致命的所以中共现在才出台了一系列控制物价继续下跌的措施通缩为什么不好我们也不用讲一大堆学术理论我来举一个例子就非常清楚了 Suppose you want to buy a pair of shoes, but you find that the shoes are always on the decline. This month is cheaper than the previous month, and the previous month is cheaper than the previous month. Then you look down at your current pair of shoes, can you still wear it? Why don't you wait a little longer? Wait for two months to be cheaper, then buy it again. You think so alone, it actually means that many people will think so. As a result, the sales of shoes have decreased. After the sales of shoes are reduced, the manufacturer has two options. Either reduce the production or further reduce the price to try to increase sales. Whether it is reducing production or reducing profit, the result is that the factory must reduce its capital to increase its efficiency, that is, reduce the salary or increase the source of income. 工厂降薪裁员那么社会上失业和低收入的人群就会变得更多进一步导致社会消费能力的降级截止就更卖不出去啦于是又要再进一步降价减产裁员于是社会消费进一步下滑形成了一个恶性的通缩螺旋 我举的是一个非常简单的例子实际情况要更加复杂但也更加严重因为你要知道造鞋厂减产不只会影响到造鞋厂的老板和员工而是整个产业链都要受到影响从上游的皮革和塑料厂到下游的经销商卖鞋的实体店到物流仓储等等整个链条当中的从业人员都会消费奖金 And the shoes in the example can be cars, appliances, electronic products, toys, clothes, etc. When a social consensus is formed, it penetrates most of the products in all industries. And we have to judge whether a country is in consensus by looking at two data, CPI and PPI. CPI is Consumer Price Index CPI reflects the price of daily daily life products and services in a period of time PPI is Producer Price Index PPI reflects the overall change in the price of industrial production in a period of time Although CPI and PPI are separate statistics, but generally speaking, they are closely related. For example, you go to a breakfast shop every day to buy pancakes. It was originally 10 yuan per piece, but one day, the flour and gas price of this breakfast shop increased. 于是店家把煎饼果汁的价格上调到了12块钱一份所以面粉和煤气的涨价是PPI上涨而PPI的上涨又导致了你最终购买早餐的价格也上涨了因此CPI也涨了 So, through PPI and CPI, we can understand the overall price change of the whole country. Generally speaking, a normal economy CPI is more reasonable to increase by 1% to 3% every year. PPI changes can be larger, 5% is OK. China's CPI has been down since January this year It will finally return to the normal number in June But only 0.1% Still far from getting rid of the pressure of inflation And PPI is even more serious New energy cars, light and other industrial products have been fighting the price war for years 价格没有最低,只有更低中国PPI已经连续下跌了33个月6月份同比再下跌3.6%创下了23个月以来的最低点从CPI和PPI来看中国无疑已经深深陷入了通缩当中这就是为什么中共如此着急的频繁出台反内卷政策多部门同时出动整治所谓的无序价格战 July 18th, the 4th Central Directorate of Industry, talked to the person in charge of the North Qi, Biadi and China Car Industry Association. On the same day, the Market Supervision Administration General Bureau talked to the US Group, JD, and ELEM, asking the delivery platform to compete rationally. Friends who often order takeout on the wall should have found that the recent delivery subsidy is weak. Then, July 24th, the New Chinese News Agency asked Guangfu industry to return to the domestic market to produce energy. The most important action is the first reform of the price law in the past 27 years It is clearly stated that No competition or exclusive market is allowed to be eliminated To lower the price of the price Or force other operators to lower the price according to their pricing rules This sentence is almost as if it didn't print the Biadi logo on the edge 好了 雖然打擊內卷和產能過剩是很好但我們應該還要問一個問題中國企業這種個性競爭發展到今天這種幾乎無法收拾的地步究竟是如何造成的呢? 中共約談企業出台打擊和整改政策似乎這些都是企業家們的錯是他們不懂事要央媽來管教但今天這樣的局面在很大程度上恰恰是中共自己一手造成的 We just say that the two industries that China's most overpowered and most twisted are Of course, it is the light and new energy car And the reason why these two industries have reached this point today Isn't it because Xi Jinping pointed out the direction and tried his best to develop? China is not a market economy, especially under Xi Jinping's rule. In the real market economy, the market decides which field to invest the capital and resources in. But the Chinese model is decided by the state to develop which industries. From the previous steel industry to the later chip and light services to the current chain of new energy vehicles As long as the government points out the direction The entire country's funds and resources have to be invested in these industries This mode is the so-called "集中力量辦大事" Use the power of the country to support an industry without cost The benefits are of course rapid development So you see, now China's new energy vehicles and light vehicles have already taken the world market position But this is actually a false prosperity on paper The biggest problem with the planned economy is Since you do not comply with market rules In the end, the invisible hand in the market Can't make a self-contradiction of the situation that deviates from market rules Why do you say that? Let's take a closer look at the current situation of light and new energy vehicles In 2024, China's total profit of Guangfu listed company dropped by 126% and lost 5 billion RMB in total This is just a year The Guangfu industry has held several industrial conferences since the end of last year They are all about the mountain gate and the sea to reduce the production capacity, to stop the internal scroll and price war and signed the so-called "history's strictest self-regulation" contract But it has no effect at all In the first quarter of this year, the profit continued to drop by 194% Because the country has been intervening in this industry for so many years It's not like you suddenly said you want to turn your head You can suddenly turn your head if you want to be independent The huge loss of the Guangfu industry is caused by extremely serious production failure China's unmindful approach to seize the global market Not only affects the domestic market, but also disrupts the global market Now the global solar panel has become a cabbage shelf In foreign countries, people even use solar panels to build walls In a normal market economy, when the supply of goods is more than needed, the price of goods will drop. So the manufacturers will naturally reduce production. After the reduction, the supply of goods will gradually balance with demand, so the price will gradually rise. This is the most basic supply and demand pattern in economics, which is the so-called invisible hand in the market economy. Will naturally adjust these imbalances. But now Guangfu has reached the point of no potential China's Guangfu industry's production capacity in 2025 has not decreased at all Even companies are expanding This is against all market rules and economic principles All Guangfu companies know that Now sell one and lose one But they don't want to cut their production Why? There are two factors here First, everyone knows that the heart of the light-saving industry is completely following the policy China's light-saving industry has experienced four cycle ups Every time it is related to the country's policy So everyone is waiting for the next round of policy change Or to support others to go bankrupt After the supply and demand reverse, the remaining players can be informed by the winner 所以你別看這些光伏企業的龍頭們個個都在行業會議上打包票拍胸脯保證會減少產能限制最低價但實際上他們心裡都清楚誰先這麼做誰的東西就賣不出去誰就得先死所以在這個行業會議上一個個演得比誰都像回頭一個比一個捲 第二點,就算有企業真的想減產,他們也未必能夠獲得批准誰不允許呢?他們所在地的地方政府要知道,每一家上市企業都是當地政府GDP增長的重要來源企業生產的不只是商品,還是地方領導的政績和仕途啊 這個問題我在以前的節目當中就講過了中國體制當中這種以GDP增長為一切目標的官員考核機制是中國大部分經濟問題的根源從房地產爆雷到地方政府不受控制的局債都是因為這種體制 So, the local government will do everything to make these government-owned enterprises survive The enterprises are waiting for others to die first The local government is also waiting for other enterprises to die first So everyone is continuing to do these meaningless production 還記得嗎?我說過了GDP統計的是生產數字這些企業每生產出一片太陽能板甭管虧多少那就是一個GDP數字的增量光伏企業現在生產的越多虧的就越多但與此同時GDP數字也就越高可是這樣嚴重虧損的企業員工工資能搞得了嗎?能不降本增效嗎?能不把一個員工當兩個來用嗎? So this is the answer to my question at the beginning Why GDP is growing Your life is getting worse The above two factors In fact, they are all through the power of man Interrupted the market economy The large amount of subsidies from the state and the local government to use all their strength to protect the companies that should have been eliminated It is equivalent to letting the market to be completely invalid the superior In addition to light, there are also new energy vehicles. Over the past 15 years, the total subsidy scale of the new energy vehicle industry by the Chinese government has exceeded 1 trillion. This does not include the indirect support for the relevant industry chain, infrastructure investment, DC loan, research and development subsidies, etc. Just like the light, no matter if there are so many needs in the market, since the country wants to be ahead of the world, it is to continue to expand production capacity, and then through the advantage of suppressing suppliers, suppressing employees and national subsidies, to take over the global market. According to the chief economist of Fuka Stock, Wang Depe, all car manufacturers in China have a potential production capacity of 70 million cars a year. And in 2024, the global car sales are only 74.6 million cars. So when the foreign new energy car market is also in a最便宜的比亚迪电动车人民币7万多元就可以买到还是那套死路赚不赚钱不重要先把别人都搞死市场就全都是我的了 那么电动车价格已经降到白菜价了库存还是清不掉怎么办于是市面上就出现了一大堆的所谓零公里二手车就是你去买车的时候车子里程表是零公里打开门新车的味道扑鼻而来内饰的保护膜都没拆但车商偏偏告诉你这是一台二手车并且以二手车的价格卖给你 What's going on? The so-called 0km 2nd hand car is the new car that comes out of the factory The salesman, which is the 4S store, put the car on the line Then sell it to the 2nd-hand car dealer at a discount price The 2nd-hand car dealer can sell it to the consumer at a price of 2 cars with a little profit According to the data of the China Car Flow Association In the second-hand car market in 2024 The registration date is less than three months The mileage is less than 50 kilometers The car mileage is 12.7% higher than before It's a big increase of 7.2% than four years ago But in fact, the part of this statistics Is included in all types of cars Fuel car, commercial car, agricultural car, etc. Only 60% of them are new energy cars And we all know that these 0km second-hand cars are basically all new energy cars So the actual proportion may be more than 20% In other words, now in the Chinese second-hand car market Every five second-hand new energy cars There is one that is a 0km second-hand car Reporter Peng from Dongchedi, Guazi, etc. online platform saw The number of companies that sell 0km second-hand cars is more than 3,000 Why would such a large-scale 0km second-hand car appear? It's because the manufacturer produced too many cars Then turned the head to the unsuitable sales indicators Pressure to the supplier CS store had no choice but to do so Otherwise, too many stock cars were pressed Bigger losses After the car was sold, the sales data was good and the government subsidies were also received. CSDen completed the sales indicators that the manufacturer gave them. The second-hand car manufacturer made money. The consumer also bought a new car at the price of a second-hand car. 看起來這是個皆大歡喜的事但這依然是一個紙面上的虛假繁榮好像車子很好賣於是車企的股價持續上升投資人和股東都很高興愛國人士們繼續搖旗吶喊中國新能源車遙遙領先 But in fact, this is a car industry bubble that is far above the demand to cover the supply of car manufacturers. Let's see when this bubble breaks. Those who have watched my analysis of the BiaDi financial report should know that BiaDi has accumulated more than 300 billion in hidden debt through the supply chain. So the sales amount cannot be reduced Once the sales amount is reduced, the cash flow is cut off The entire car industry chain companies Will collapse like the Domino's stock Now the price of new energy cars is decreasing In the case of almost no profit space To survive, the car manufacturers So start to limit the supply of suppliers Long-term companies like Biadi There are three ways to limit suppliers Limit price, delay the expiration date and replace the threat 在國際上車企給供應商的帳期一般在45天到60天但是現在國內汽車廠家給供應商的帳期很多都達到180天根據彭博社在今年一月份所發表的一份調查報告顯示比亞迪是最狠的給供應商的平均帳期高達275天9個多月 Then there is the replacement threat What? You are not satisfied? Then don't do it Some people are waiting in line to receive our order But even if it is a limitless fraud against suppliers and employees The net profit of China's top 10 car companies is only 40% of Feng Tian's family丰田一家的40% Of course, the problem is not only caused by the government's economic plan, but also by the bad cultural characteristics of the Chinese business environment. That is, every Chinese entrepreneur seems to have a "sacrifice" concept. The way of every industry is to fight for the price in the early stage. If the price is 10 yuan, I will buy it if you sell it for 12 yuan. If you sell it for 10 yuan, I would rather lose the stock, and sell it for 8 yuan. The point is to see who will die first. Then, by continuing to finance in the market, or use government subsidies to fill the deficit. In the end, if I kill everyone, I will be the only one in the family. 滴滴 美團 騰訊等等都是通過這個邏輯捲死對手最終拿下整個的行業紅利有些人可能會說了這有什麼不好嗎企業家們極限內捲打價格戰呼籲的是我們消費者啊 你要这么想,那么目光就短浅了东西是便宜了,但你的收入十几年都上不去,有意义吗?你是希望拿着低工资购买廉价商品,还是拿着合理的工资购买高质量的价格合理的商品呢? There is a reason that everyone must understand The more concentrated the resources and capital of a country, the harder it is for the revenue distribution to penetrate down Do you think your work and income are more related to the so-called leading dragon-headed companies? Or does it have more to do with the rapid development of thousands of small and medium-sized companies on the industrial chain? If all the companies are only left with the big companies Are you sure you will be a member of the big companies? How many Chinese people are one of these big companies? And even if you enter the big companies With their price tag and soaring profits Do you think your life will be better? Some Chinese people complain about their life in the 996 while they shout out to those who occupy the global market through the extreme internal scroll Isn't this a mental division? No matter how big Huawei, Xiaomi and Biaty are, can your life be better because of it? Is the so-called "Great State Uprising" really related to you? Again, the companies that are the top of the list by the 8 supply of leather and small-scale enterprises, and those companies that are the top of the list by the workers' unlimited 996, no one can tell how big their sales are, how big the global market share is, and the increase is just the number of GDP, not the income of the people. As long as the income of the people is not enough, the consumption will continue to be misguided, and the problem of the inflation will become more and more serious. In the end, the softness of the consumer's skin at the demand end will definitely be transferred back to the production end. The short-term false prosperity bubble must be broken. Of course, the CCP has already understood this point. So now they want to end up and continue to be like this, trying to stop the enterprise. So, can they succeed? 以史为鉴,可以知形体要回答这个问题,我们首先要了解历史要知道,其实这并不是改革开放以来中共第一次进行这种去产能反内选的行动事实上,这已经是第三次了只不过每一次的教法不同而已 The first time to reduce the production capacity was in 1998, which was called "fake-sales pressure". The second time to reduce the production capacity was in 2016, which was called "competitive reform". This year it was called "reverse internal roll". In 1992, after Deng Xiaoping's "Hard-to-Find", he started a real reform and reform opening. A lot of money was invested into low-end manufacturing And the textile industry was the most important part of China's economy at that time From 1980 to 2000 China's clothing annual production grew from 6.7 billion pieces to 100 billion pieces 15 times One-fifth of the world's clothing is produced in China 220 countries and regions all over the world As it is now, the real estate industry has suffered serious internal losses and loss of production capacity. Most of the companies have suffered a low profit, product depression and severe loss. When the financial crisis in Asia broke out in 1997, the export of Chinese low-end manufacturing industry faced greater pressure. The real estate industry was further hit. So in 1998, the CCP introduced a series of "extra-merchant policy". And the most important one is the real estate pressure. 其实具体方式就是强制企业淘汰老旧设备并且以各种理由关闭了数千家小企业小作坊在强力的行政干预下房资业聚产能效果显著中国房资企业连续5年负增长供需逆转之后活下来的企业利润率大幅回升到2001年中国加入WTO以后海外订单大量增加房资业又再一次迎来了快速增长 同樣的場景在10年後再度發生2008年美國次貸危機引發了全球經濟動盪在中國出口訂單量一夜之間幾乎完全停滯的情況下中共推出了4萬億投資計劃要知道當時中國一年的GDP只有31萬億4萬億相當於GDP的12.5%堪稱史上力度最強的經濟刺激政策 If we compare the GDP of 135 million today It is equivalent to the government taking out 17 trillion to save the city This amount of money has invested a lot in various basic construction and real estate Railways, highways, airports and commercial buildings are newly built Steel, iron, cement, glass, machinery and other heavy industries are rapidly expanding In a short time, the city's Tianji County has been completely demolished Countless skyscrapers have been built 一夜之間暴增的需求帶來了一夜之間暴增的產能但這種突如其來的刺激是不可能長久維持的等需求回歸正常以後這些已經形成的過剩的產能就會開始反噬 Especially in 2012, China's buildings suddenly cooled down Causing the production of cement and steel to exceed the production capacity Still the same problem In a normal market economy At this time, the production capacity of steel and cement will decrease Related companies will naturally have a surplus of bad conditions Then the production capacity is naturally adjusted to match the demand 但事實上中國那幾年的鋼材產量還在不斷上漲還是那個老問題地方政府為了GDP數字好看還在繼續把有限的紫圓砸進最能拉動GDP的上游工業產品比如水泥、鋼材、鋁材等等 要知道,產能過剩是國家層面的宏觀問題地方官員們要考慮的是今年的GDP增長是不是能讓我繼續升官發財結果就是,一邊是產能過剩一邊是地方政府還在不斷擴產能企業不行了,就繼續拿老百姓的稅收來給企業補貼讓他們繼續活下去 到了2016年,国家一看不行啊于是再次下场通过行政手段去产能但这一次叫做供给侧改革其中最直接的办法就是以环保为名强制性的关闭了大量的上游原材料中小企业几千家钢材、煤炭、玻璃制造企业等等有计划性的被群体死亡曾经赤诈风云的中国煤老板们大部分都是在这个时候消失的 In the history of the two 那么过去这两次聚产能成功了吗?你可以说成功也可以说不成功成功的是每一次中央推出聚产能组合权之后确实都能暂时把产能打下来比如2016年以后煤炭、钢铁等本来利润率都已经快要跌到负数的产业在供给侧改革之后利润率都得到快速的反弹只要是没有被政府关掉的企业又活了过来 那為什麼也可以說不成功呢?如果說同樣一種病每次你生病我就給你一劑猛藥你看似好了但隔一段時間同樣的病又會捲土重來你說這個病究竟是治好了還是沒治好呢? 所以你看1998年去產能2016年又在產能過剩2016年供給側改革現在又在產能過剩於是說要反內捲問題就在於每一次的產能過剩都是國家自己造成的每一次的去產能都是治標不治本的 The internal donation is essentially a matter of resource allocation. Because of the influence of the planned economy, the country's resources are concentrated in some areas, which leads to the internal donation. But in the past, these "general policy" the country closed all the private enterprises, and never closed the state-owned enterprises. The result is that resources are concentrated further to large state-owned enterprises Bank loans are priority to them Policy is biased to them Skills and talents are also taken away by them So the internal scrolls are not solved, but transferred From enterprise internal scrolls to workplace internal scrolls Because the small and medium enterprises closed down a large part Will cause a lot of unemployment 還是那句話,宏觀層面上的問題好像是解決了但人民的生活到底是變好了,還是變差了呢?而如今,造成通縮的原因有兩個方面供給過剩和需求不足但聚產能你只是解決了供給端的問題並沒有解決需求端的問題 你單純去產能但又不提高需求苦的還是老百姓比如這一輪反內捲下來如果說下半年物價真的回升了CPI漲了 PPI漲了 GDP也漲了就是工資收入沒漲那又如何呢 你可能會說過去兩次的去產能都成功了國家也越來越好這一次也必定會成功但我說未必因為過去兩次的去產能中國都有一個兜底的行業來承接去產能之後所帶來的失業問題和資源重新分配的問題那就是房地產 过去30年来房地产行业可以说是中国经济的万金油不管你什么问题来这个超级庞大的财富蓄水池都能给你兜底但我们都知道这个蓄水池现在自己都在漏水了已经无力在挽救中国经济 This is just one of the reasons. The second reason is that China was still a strong country back then. Although there were some short-term crises, the overall economy was very healthy. The export of goods back then may be due to the international economic situation, but overall it was a weekly problem. But after the war with Russia, the pressure of the export is not a weekly problem, but a long-term pressure Foreigners are being evacuated, factories are being transferred to Southeast Asia, the unemployment rate has been at a very serious level 在這個節骨眼上中國還能承受得了強勢的去產能動作嗎大量關閉工廠之後的失業問題如何解決呢就像一個人隔三差五的老毛病就發作於是每一次醫生的用藥就要越來越猛以前你身體的基本技能還是強壯的時候飲鴆止渴還能頂得住但現在你的身體已經非常虛弱了你還能扛得住嗎 所以對於產能過剩和內捲的問題中國需要的是治本而不是治標那麼本是什麼呢就是三點第一停止過度干預市場經濟讓市場那時看不見的熟來進行經濟的自我調節 Second, system reform It is a system that completely changes the assessment of the government officials on the VGDP The government officials should be the people who decide whether they are doing well Not the superiors Third, the problem of truly solving the problem of unpaid resource distribution Weakening state-owned enterprises Let the private economy develop in a fair environment 這樣才能提高人民的收入再通過提高基本社會福利和保障讓人民獲得真正的安全感這樣消費才有可能提振根本性解決需求端的問題但當然以上這三點等於是讓中共實現市場經濟讓人民參與政治以及藏富漁民 This is equivalent to a reform of the political system which has shaken the foundation of the Red Empire They can't do that As I always say The real scary thing is not not knowing the answer but knowing the answer long ago but still can't follow the answer 好 那我今天就分享到这里我是老周 横眉轮回 时言不灰我们下期再见