For decades, a clear promise defined the 
aspirations of young adults worldwide. If  
you went to university—even if you accumulated 
some debt—you got a ticket to the middle class.  
That ticket guaranteed a white-collar job 
and a salary premium over non-graduates. It  
also paved the way to homeownership.
That promise has been broken – the  
golden ticket turned out to just be 
a coupon for 10% off a student loan.
 
We are witnessing a rare economic shift. A growing 
economy usually rewards the effort taken to get  
an education. Yet today, the economy has been 
expanding while the door for graduate employment  
has been closing. In May 2024, Oxford Economics 
reported a statistic that defines this new era.  
For the first time in 45 years, the unemployment 
rate for recent university graduates in the  
United States exceeded the national average. 
Now while this is not great - it is by no  
means a disaster - as US unemployment - while 
rising is still hovering near all-time lows.
 
This inversion is partly a story of supply. In 
1960, only about 5 percent of young people in  
the UK went to university. By 2007, that figure 
had risen to 43 percent. The United States saw a  
similar trajectory, with the share of adults 
holding a degree jumping from 7.7 percent in  
1960 to nearly 38 percent in 2023. The degree - 
which was once a rare signal of elite capability,  
has become a baseline expectation. As scarcity 
disappeared, so did the pay premium. 
 
It is not just the number of graduates 
that have been growing either, there  
has been grade inflation too. In the UK, for 
example - the proportion of students awarded  
a First-Class degree went from 7 percent 
in the mid-90s to 26 percent today. The  
problem with grade inflation like this is 
that - if everyone is special, no one is.
 
In September 2025, unemployment among 
20–24-year-olds in the United States hit 9.2  
percent, rising sharply from 7 percent a year 
earlier. Broader data from Bloomberg reveals that  
Americans with four-year degrees now account for 
more than 25 percent of all unemployed workers.  
This ratio has climbed to an all-time high, 
surpassing even the temporary peak reached  
during the pandemic layoffs of March 2020.
The crisis can be seen in the frantic activity  
required to just stand still. According to High 
Fliers Research, final-year students in the UK now  
make an average of 21.7 job applications each. 
This nearly doubles the number of applications  
made just two years ago in 2023 - yet success 
rates have plummeted to their lowest levels in  
three decades. Only 27 percent of UK final-year 
students had a job lined up by February 2025,  
down from 33 percent two years earlier. Graduate 
job postings have plummeted in key sectors:  
falling 78 percent in human resources, 46 percent 
in marketing, and 42 percent in accounting.  
While this is happening - the supply of 
graduates keeps rising, with over 465,000  
finishing their first degree in the UK last year.
John Burn-Murdoch, the chief data reporter at the  
FT, highlights that the most striking feature 
of this new landscape is the gendered nature  
of the divide. The collapse in graduate 
hiring has hit young men the hardest.
 
Detailed employment data from the US reveals that 
the unemployment rate for recent male graduates  
has jumped from under 5 percent to 7 percent over 
the last year. For female graduates, the rate  
remains unchanged. Women gained 135,000 jobs last 
year, including nearly 50,000 in healthcare alone.  
Men cluster in fields like tech and finance. 
These sectors have been purging entry-level  
roles after pandemic-era hiring binges. They 
are also aggressively embracing automation.  
Large Language Models now perform tasks young men 
were once hired to do, such as writing basic code,  
analyzing spreadsheets, and managing data. 
Bloomberg reported last month that OpenAI had  
hired more than 100 ex-investment bankers to 
train its AI on how to build financial models  
as it looks to replace the hours of grunt work 
performed by junior bankers across the industry.
 
Before I get to that, let me tell 
you about today's video sponsor,  
Shokz. I've been using Shokz headphones for more 
than two years, and I really love them. Shocks has  
been a pioneer in openear headphone technology, 
making headphones that allow you to listen to  
music without blocking your ears, meaning that you 
can stay aware of your surroundings when out and  
about. They provide authentic and natural sound 
with immersive Dolby audio, which can be switched  
on using the app. The Shokz open dots are one of 
the most comfortable headphones I've ever worn.  
There's none of the irritation you get with 
in-ear headphones as they just wrap around  
your ear and hold on securely. I wear them while 
at work, while commuting, and even while running,  
and they haven't fallen off once. They sound 
great. They pair with my phone, my computer,  
and the entertainment devices on airplanes in 
seconds. They have 10 hours of battery life and  
with the slim charging case, they'll last up to 40 
hours before you need to plug them in. They make  
an amazing Christmas gift, too. Go to Shokz.com 
to get 30% off on Open Dots 1, plus an additional  
5% off using my code patrick30. And there's a 
limited buy 1 get one free quota available.
 
There is some good news that hiring in tech is not 
as bad as it was a year ago. A viewer sent me this  
Instagram post during the week of a guy with a 
double major from Stanford in mathematics and  
computer science finding a job as a professional 
basketball player – so there are jobs out there...  
While tech hiring in general remains sluggish—down 
roughly 20 percent from pre-pandemic levels  
according to LinkedIn— there has been some bounce 
back and specific, high-skill areas are showing  
growth. Demand for AI developers and cybersecurity 
specialists is stabilizing. The market now  
prioritizes precision over volume. Companies 
are recruiting smaller, specialized teams that  
combine technical expertise with business acumen.
Women – who have not been as hard hit - dominate  
sectors that remain stubbornly human. Healthcare 
alone added more jobs for young female graduates  
last year than all other sectors combined added 
for men. An aging population requires care,  
and automation struggles with 
this type of task. Consequently,  
the advice for the next generation is to pay 
attention to demographics so that you can be  
ahead of the big trends shaping the workplace.
On the job training - has long depended on  
repetitive work. Junior lawyers spent their 
first few years reviewing thousands of pages  
of contracts while accountants checked audit 
logs. Junior investment bankers spent years  
building excel models and PowerPoint slideshows 
for pitches. This work – while tedious - served  
a critical function. By grinding through this 
repetitive work for years – juniors both proved  
themselves and learned how to do their job well.
Artificial Intelligence has started to sever this  
link. According to the FT, at Simmons & Simmons, 
- a UK based international law firm - a custom  
AI tool named "Percy" now handles document 
review and legal summarization. Presumably,  
the first thing Percy worked out was how to 
make a font size small enough so the disclaimer  
doesn’t seem longer than the document and the 
second was 'How to bill 26 hours in a 24-hour  
day. Percy’s already partner material.
Some of the basic tasks that AI is being  
used for at law firms once taught “the trade” 
to fleets of trainee lawyers. Juniors have now  
begun evolving from "doers" generating first 
drafts into "checkers" verifying AI output.  
But verifying the soundness of a contract 
or the security of a piece of code requires  
judgment – and the problem is that fresh graduates 
rarely possess this skill. Discernment requires  
experience – but companies are increasingly 
reluctant to provide that experience.
 
This technological shift towards AI has started 
breaking the hiring process too. Generative AI  
allows applicants to spam hundreds of custom cover 
letters and resumes out to hiring firms with a  
single click. The Economist describes how a good 
cover letter - used to help distinguish between  
high- and low-quality applicants. Employers - 
now flooded with indistinguishable applications,  
struggle to differentiate between candidates. 
This creates a classic "lemons problem," a concept  
introduced by the economist George Akerlof in 
1970. In Akerlof’s model, when buyers can’t  
distinguish between high-quality goods (or 
peaches) and low-quality goods (lemons – a  
slang term in America for a car that’s found 
to be defective after it has been bought.),  
their fear of buying a lemon drives 
down the price they are willing to pay.  
This drives sellers of high-quality goods 
out of the market, leaving only lemons.
 
In the graduate job market, the "goods" are 
job applications. When employers are flooded  
with thousands of AI-generated, indistinguishable 
cover letters, they lose the ability to identify  
the high-quality candidates who invested time 
and effort. The signal is drowned out by noise.  
Just as buyers in Akerlof's market stopped 
buying used cars, employers are stopping the  
open hiring process. They retreat to 
offline networks and nepotism to find  
people they feel they can trust. The issue 
is that if everyone sounds perfect on paper,  
the only signal left is a personal introduction.
New technology is just one factor compounding the  
pressure on young job seekers. It joins a perfect 
storm of macroeconomic forces that make novice  
employees - a potential financial liability. 
Firms are dealing with constantly changing  
tariff rules in the United States - the biggest 
consumer market in the world. American firms don't  
know what their raw materials will cost or if the 
consumer will accept higher prices - they have no  
idea what their margins will be if they might 
have to swallow some of the cost increase. 
 
Foreign firms don't know if they will be able 
to export at all, or if they’ll face higher  
competition in their domestic markets 
from redirected Chinese exports. When  
a company has no visibility as to what their 
costs will be or what demand will look like,  
they often freeze up. They postpone big 
decisions until they have greater visibility.  
The constantly changing nature of these tariffs 
makes the situation particularly difficult for  
businesses - and is likely reducing growth both 
at US-based firms and international firms.
 
Recent analysis from Goldman Sachs adds weight 
to this gloomy outlook. Their researchers found  
that private-sector layoff announcements 
in October reached their highest level on  
record outside of a recession. Furthermore, WARN 
notices—which companies must file before mass  
layoffs—have ticked up to levels not seen since 
2016. While initial jobless claims remain low,  
these leading indicators suggest 
the US labor market is weakening.
 
All of this uncertainty has led to a 
"great freeze" in the broader job market.  
We are seeing a "low-hire, low-fire" dynamic 
– which has been termed “Job Hugging” - where  
incumbent employees stay put, reducing the churn 
that typically opens up entry-level spots at  
firms. With quit rates falling, the ladder is 
getting blocked somewhat from the top down.
 
Governments around the world have been busy 
raising minimum wages to combat the cost-of-living  
crisis. While the US minimum wage has stayed 
low – higher minimum wages have been imposed  
by many states. The Economist recently wrote 
about how academics have recently been getting  
cold feet about the effects of high minimum 
wages. While they may help the lowest earners,  
they fundamentally alter the calculus of hiring. 
By lifting the pay floor for entry-level workers  
closer to that of experienced staff, these 
policies may have inadvertently erased the  
distinction between the two groups. In the 
past, a lower starting salary offset the  
cost of on-the-job training. Today, graduates are 
more expensive. When the cost of an inexperienced  
worker rivals that of a worker with a few years 
of experience, the rational employer chooses  
the proven candidate every time. Since trainees 
can’t generate immediate value to justify their  
new price tag, firms close the door to hiring 
them. The Economist quotes a paper by Hannah  
Farkas of Columbia University who found that 
big increases in the wage floor led employers  
to making working schedules less predictable and 
the work less safe – with a higher incidence of  
workplace injuries - in effect they make the 
job worse to compensate for it paying more. 
 
This leaves graduates in a precarious 
position – where they face a frozen job  
market while grappling with the highest 
living costs in a generation. Inflation  
has eroded their purchasing power, housing costs 
have skyrocketed in the cities where jobs exist,  
and many carry significant student debt. They 
are priced out of employment by wage floors  
and priced out of life by the cost of living.
Employers increasingly retreat to offline hiring  
and personal networks. This disadvantages 
working-class graduates who have fewer  
family connections with the ability to 
influence hiring decisions. The trust  
between recruiter and applicant has evaporated 
due to the use of AI systems. Faced with 21.7  
applications per student—many generated by 
AI bots—recruiters turn off the firehose.
 
Students see the door closing and respond by 
buying a bigger key. Enrollment in Master’s  
programs has skyrocketed in recent years. 
It's like trying to fix a leak in your boat  
by drilling another hole to let the water out. If 
your Bachelor's in History didn't get you a job,  
surely a Master's in Advanced History will 
convince Open AI that you can write code.
 
Fear is one of the drivers of the growth in 
advanced degree programs – but the returns to  
earning a master’s degree have started shrinking 
too. Research shows that 40 percent of US master’s  
programs deliver no real financial benefit. 
In Britain, graduates with master’s degrees  
often earn similar salaries to those with a 
bachelor’s degree by age 35. Students have  
found themselves in an arms race of credentials 
that devalues the very qualifications they chase.
 
Not all degrees are created equal. Analysis by the 
Foundation for Research on Equal Opportunity – a  
US based think-tank highlights a stark divide. 
While engineering, nursing, and economics degrees  
can offer a lifetime Return on Investment of over 
half a million dollars - degrees in creative arts,  
social care, agriculture, English, philosophy, 
education, and psychology frequently result in  
a negative financial return. The "ticket" to 
the middle class is no longer a generic degree;  
it is a specific, market-aligned skillset.
According to researchers at Georgetown  
University - the subject that you pick matters 
more than the university you attend. While the  
worst US colleges provide their students 
with next to no value. In general - people  
who enroll in America’s public universities get 
a better return on investment than students who  
go to the more prestigious private non-profit 
ones – which – despite being nonprofits - tend  
to be significantly more expensive.
Interestingly, research shows that men  
face a higher opportunity cost for attending 
university - as men are more likely to work in  
skilled trades—like plumbing, electrical work or 
construction—which offer high earnings without the  
need for a degree, the financial sacrifice of four 
years out of the workforce is harder to justify.
 
As the glass-walled office door closes, another 
door opens to the warehouse, the construction  
site, and the classroom. Bloomberg reports that 
there has been a surge in applications for roles  
graduates once ignored like substitute teachers 
and prison guards. According to the article,  
an Atlanta based traffic-flagging company now 
receives up to 80 job applications a week,  
compared with just ten five years ago. While 
the overall jobless rate remains fairly low  
at 4.3% - those out of work are lingering in 
unemployment for longer. Some of these less  
glamorous jobs offer what many office roles no 
longer guarantee: stability. They are hard to  
automate, and turnover in these roles is falling.
Paradoxically, the Zoom revolution that everyone  
was excited about in 2020 has reinforced the 
value of physical presence. Corporate travel  
is rebounding to pre-pandemic levels because 
businesses have rediscovered a simple truth:  
people buy from people. We thought Zoom 
would kill business travel a few years ago,  
but it turns out that nobody closes a 
million-dollar deal with a person who  
is secretly wearing pajama bottoms. Unless you’re 
selling pajama bottoms, in which case—great move!
 
Sales roles, which require travel and 
face-to-face relationship building, remain  
robust against automation. The willingness to get 
on a plane is becoming a competitive advantage.
 
While the job situation has been tough for 
college graduates in the Anglosphere – it  
is not a global problem, Southern 
Europe offers a surprising bright spot.  
Italy’s graduate unemployment rate is at its 
lowest since records began in the 1990s. Greece  
has fallen from 40 percent during the debt crisis 
to just over 10 percent. Spain and Portugal show  
stability or improvement. These economies avoided 
the tech-and-finance binge of the 2020s and now  
benefit from EU recovery funds - stimulating 
demand for engineers and project managers.
 
Corporate structures appear to be 
changing. According to the American  
Society of Employers - the old pyramid shaped 
organizational structure, with just a few senior  
executives at the top - more managers and high 
value contributors in the middle and then lots  
of entry level workers at the bottom, is 
giving way to a diamond shaped structure  
which is lean at the base and fat in the middle. 
While a diamond structure might sound fancy - it  
really just means there's a bunch of stressed 
middle managers floating in mid-air with no  
one below them to fetch coffee or fix the 
formatting in their PowerPoint slides. The  
bottom rung of the ladder hasn't just been 
removed; it's been sold for scrap to pay  
the consultant who recommended removing it.
Firms are heavy with mid-career specialists  
and hire fewer trainees than ever before. This 
saves on the expense of training today - but  
risks hollowing out leadership pipelines. 
According to the FT, some recruiters are  
warning that failing to hire juniors today - puts 
a company's existence at risk within 15 years.
 
Dan Priest - the chief AI officer at pwc 
told the Economist that the structure might  
eventually shift to an hourglass - where AI 
hollows out middle management – essentially  
the opposite of what we are seeing today. This 
would allow AI-native graduates to leapfrog into  
leadership. However, that optimism does rely 
on an entry mechanism that currently appears  
to be broken. I’m not sure how likely it is.
Graduate jobs are by no means extinct, but they  
are scarcer, more competitive, and harder to get 
chosen for – to find one you will have to rely  
more on networking than on spinning up AI cover 
letters and making online applications. Geography,  
gender, and sector seem to all be shaping outcomes 
– and it matters much more today what subjects you  
choose to study. AI may be having an impact 
on graduate hiring, but economic uncertainty,  
credential inflation, and structural change 
are all playing important roles too.
 
Despite the headwinds, the overall unemployment 
rate remains low by historical standards – if you  
are searching for a job – it’s at least not during 
a recession – and it should work out for you,  
but you do need to adopt different strategies 
to separate yourself from the crowd. The "paper  
ceiling" is cracking – your employability is not 
all down to academic qualifications anymore. The  
provable skills you have matter more than 
the credential itself. The skills in the  
highest demand today involve a mix technical and 
human-centric abilities. Skilled tradespeople,  
and specialist programmers remain in high demand. 
The economy is not broken, but it is changing.
 
For graduates, adaptation is essential. This 
means mastering AI tools, building networks,  
and choosing resilient sectors that 
are likely to continue growing due  
to demographic trends such as healthcare 
and advanced manufacturing. For employers,  
the question is whether short-term savings 
justify the long-term risk of not having a  
pipeline of qualified workers. For policymakers, 
the task is to align education with reality.
 
The first rung of the career ladder 
is still there. It just takes more  
effort—and more ingenuity—to reach.
If you found this video interesting you  
should watch the video I made a few years ago on 
finding a job during the pandemic next – as all  
of those ideas of how to find a job during 
a tough job market still make sense today.  
Don’t forget to check out our sponsor Shokz – 
especially during their buy one get one free  
promotion period before Christmas. Have a great 
day and talk to you in the next video – bye.