My name is Jonathan Rauch. I'm a senior fellow 
at the Brookings Institution and I've spent my  
career trying to understand liberal values 
and institutions and how to improve them.  
Today on Big Think, I'm going to talk about the 
most revolutionary and important technology in  
human history, which is liberalism, the modern 
threats to liberalism, and then the surprising  
discovery of how our liberal democracy relies on 
Christianity. Thank you for watching Big Think.  
If you'd like to support our work, we encourage 
you to join our members community. As a member,  
you'll receive our quarterly print magazine, 
a beautifully designed collection of the ideas  
and interviews that matter most. Big Think is 
for curious people who want to take deep dives  
into big ideas. To support the media you want to 
see in the world, go to bigthink.com/join. And  
now back to the interview. Chapter 1, Liberalism, 
humanity's greatest technology. One of the biggest  
and deepest questions in political theory is is 
what is liberalism because it's the core concept  
of today's political institutions and there are a 
few different cuts at that. One is philosophical.  
This goes back to philosophers like Hobbes but 
especially John Lockach 17th century philosopher  
considered the founder of liberalism and then 
people like Emanuel Kant the founding fathers.  
James Madison was one of the great liberal 
thinkers and their core idea was that the  
traditional way of organizing human societies was 
flawed. And that's from the top down. You know,  
when you've got a group of more than about 150 
or 200, there's no way they can all know each  
other and have trusting relationships. So, you're 
going to have large numbers of people to organize.  
And a lot of them are going to be strangers. And 
the traditional way of doing that is you'll have  
a chief or a boss or a dictator and you'll have 
a hierarchy and you'll have orders issued from  
the top down. Monarchy, priesthoods. That's the 
way it was done until these guys came along and  
said let's try organizing society in a radically 
different way where instead of having rulers you  
have rules and instead of having coercion you try 
to foster cooperation and where instead of having  
hierarchies you have equality. So in principle 
everyone's interchangeable. Well, that leads  
to anyone can vote, anyone can buy at the same 
price, and anyone can perform an experiment and  
be able to see the same thing. Once you do that, 
you got liberal social systems. And that's what's  
so transformative. In the United States, for 
my lifetime, liberalism meant a doctrine on the  
political left. it it lights government programs 
for example and it was opposed to conservatism.  
Well, that's a very different meaning from 
the meaning that's now coming back and it's  
the meaning that I use today whenever I talk 
about it. You could think of it maybe as small  
ill liberalism and and that's not about left or 
right. There's leftleaning versions of liberalism  
and there are also right-leaning versions. But 
that's what often been called sometimes classical  
liberalism, traditional liberalism. In Europe, 
it's just called liberalism. But it's what our  
founding fathers in the United States meant by 
liberalism, which is the doctrine that all men  
are created equal and endowed with inalienable 
rights. So that's what I'm talking about today.  
and all of the many things that spin off of that. 
I have a slightly unusual take on on liberalism  
because most people who talk and think about 
it are political theorists who will tell you  
it's a political theory and it is. Liberalism 
is the idea stated best in the Declaration of  
Independence that all men are created equal and 
endowed with inalienable rights. But liberalism  
is also a way to structure societies. It's a 
social technology. It's a way to answer maybe  
the most difficult question humans have which is 
how do you organize cooperation of large numbers  
of people most of whom will be strangers to each 
other. And liberalism gives a unique answer to  
that and a uniquely effective answer to that. 
so effective that as a social technology as a  
way to organize our groups it is literally species 
transforming the social technology the core idea  
is you operate societies according to rules not 
rulers you use cooperation not coercion and you  
assume equality and the people are interchangeable 
instead of hierarchy in which some people are by  
virtue of their birth or their wealth or whatever 
in charge. So, how do you instantiate that? What  
does that actually mean when the rubber hits the 
road? Well, it turns out that there are three  
great liberal social systems and in some realms 
they're distinct, but they have the same core  
idea and they're interacting all the time and 
we all depend on them every day for everything  
we hold dear. Peace, prosperity, freedom, and 
truth. So, the first of those is liberal markets,  
often called capitalism. That's the idea that 
you have a big marketplace and people negotiate  
through mechanisms like prices and we trace 
that back in its theoretical form to Adam Smith.  
The second big liberal system is liberal 
democracy. And this in the United States  
we trace to our founding fathers, the greatest 
avatars of this idea who built the constitution  
around it. And that's the idea of consent of 
the governed through their expression as voters,  
multiple branches of government, each with its 
own power centers so that they're competing and  
compromising multiple levels of government. 
and above all equality before the law. The  
core concept of a liberal democracy. You don't 
get special treatment depending on who you are.  
And then there's a third system. This is the one 
that often gets left out, but it's just as liberal  
and just as important as the other two. I call 
it liberal science. And that's our system for  
finding truth and settling disagreements in a way 
that both keeps the peace and keeps us in touch  
with reality. And that's the system that says, 
so how do we settle conflicts over what's true  
and what's false? People often disagree on that 
and you can't run a society if you can't come  
to some kind of consensus about truth that's in 
touch with reality. Traditional way of doing that,  
you'd have a priest or a pilot bureau. You'd 
use an oracle. You'd lean on tradition or a  
text like a Bible. That's how you'd settle things. 
Doesn't work very well. Liberal science says, "No,  
we're going to do something different. 
We're going to require people to be in  
a constant exchange of criticism according 
to rules." Like, if there's an experiment,  
everyone needs to be able to do it. And like no 
one can shut down the conversation using force.  
And through that process, we're going to establish 
what looks today like science and journalism and  
law. And that's an open-ended rules-based truth 
seeeking system. That's liberal science. I think  
it's the most important and successful of the 
three because that's given us the technological  
advances and the advances in knowledge. It 
is literally true that any given morning,  
our global world of science produces more new 
knowledge than humanity did in its first 200,000  
years. But those three are all working on the same 
principles, which is they're relying on rules and  
they're depersonalized and people are equal within 
those systems. A big misconception about liberal  
markets confuses it with libertarianism. And 
and libertarians are a branch of liberalism,  
but they're a branch that's really fundamentally 
they maximize what what they consider freedom,  
individual autonomy. They want to minimize 
government at every turn. And their idea of  
liberal capitalism is a specific type that's it's 
very lazy. They want absolutely minimal government  
intervention. They put a strong emphasis on 
property rights as inherent rights. Many of  
them will say government doesn't even have the 
right to tax or to regulate property beyond very  
narrow limits. Well, that is one tributary of 
the liberal tradition, but it's only that. The  
core of liberalism is much broader and it leaves 
a lot of room to define different types of rules  
for capitalism. The founder, the great theorist, 
original theorist of liberal economics, liberal  
markets, Adam Smith was not a small government 
libertarian. He believed that government should  
provide important basic public services. He 
believed that it should provide education. Uh,  
a lot of the great liberal thinkers have always 
thought that. And there's room in liberalism,  
this is why it sometimes can be confusing to lots 
of people, including me. There's tons of room  
within this tradition to debate what the specific 
rule should be. Like, you know, what do you do  
about zoning laws? Should you have anti- monopoly 
laws? What are the boundaries of property rights?  
All of these things. And these are hard and 
contested questions and they're super important.  
But it's equally important to realize that they're 
all coloring within the same lines and that those  
lines are the idea that we are looking for rules 
that maximize our peace and our prosperity and  
freedom and knowledge within that larger context 
of liberalism. Liberalism of all three types,  
liberal markets, liberal democracy, liberal 
science, they're all big broad fields and they all  
have constant debates within themselves over what 
the specific rule should be. So liberal democracy,  
how much direct democracy do you want? Do 
you want to do it like the founders did it,  
which is you only have elections every few years 
and the rest is done by representatives? Do you  
want to do it with direct referenda and initiative 
like some of the states do? What do you guarantee  
in the constitution? What are the limits of 
executive authority? On and on and on. This is  
what liberals do for a living. And to the extent 
that people joke about it, they say, you know,  
a liberal is someone who can't even agree with 
herself. And the same is true in liberal science.  
One of its great strengths is that the boundaries 
of liberal science, I include in that journalism  
and all the fields that try to seek objective 
truth by doing replicable reporting and  
experiments. They are constantly arguing with each 
other about what the right methodologies are. Is  
it real science? Is this some other process 
better than others? What are the boundaries  
of journalism? And and that's a feature, not a 
bug, because none of the authoritarian systems  
can do that. None of them can be in a constant 
conversation about what the rules and guidelines  
should be and about how to readjust those rules 
when we're at a moment of crisis as I think a  
lot of people would agree liberalism is today. 
I mentioned that liberalism is a unique social  
technology. There's nothing else like it and 
it's revolutionary compared to everything that  
came before and everything else that's available 
as alternatives today. you know, authoritarianism,  
um, populism, theocracy, you name it. What's 
different about it? It has some super important  
traits that have all kinds of implications. Okay, 
what are those? First, it's decentralized. You can  
go and look for the president of liberal world. 
You won't find anyone. There's no president of  
science. There's no president of the market. 
There is a president of the United States, but  
it's a individual with specific powers. There's 
no president of the whole constitution. There's  
no president of all the states and all the judges 
and all the branches of government. And that's on  
purpose. Liberalism says, look, human beings can't 
be trusted with huge amounts of power with one  
person in charge. Partly because that person's 
likely to be corrupted and self-interested, but  
partly because even if that's person's a platonic 
style philosopher, guardian who's perfectly wise,  
they're not going to have anything like enough 
information, the world is so vast and one person  
can't know more than the tiniest fraction of that. 
So instead, you have a decentralized system where  
information is always flowing through from all 
kinds of quarters. And that of course is the  
genius as FA Hayek the great economist pointed out 
of a liberal market. It's a gigantic information  
processing machine and those information 
are all represented in the price. The same  
is true of science. The same is true of liberal 
democracy where you've got all of those levels  
of government and branches of government and 
agencies and politicians and committees pulling  
in information and looking to cycle those through 
negotiations. And of course the same is true of  
liberal science. very decentralized researchers, 
labs, institutions, universities all over the  
world doing different things yet coordinating. 
Second key characteristics, depersonalized.  
In an ideal liberal system, of course, the world 
isn't perfect. We have some distance to go, but in  
an ideal liberal system, it shouldn't matter who 
you are. If I do an experiment today in downtown  
Washington DC where I'm sitting, someone else who 
repeats that information in Bengal should get the  
same result. It shouldn't matter who we are. Same 
with prices, rules and markets, liberal democracy,  
we all get one vote. The idea here is if you 
take personal standpoint and privilege out of it  
so that we become interchangeable that allows us 
to coordinate among not just a handful of people  
who happen to agree on things or be in the same 
tribe or be in the same physical place. We can  
now coordinate millions, hundreds of millions, 
billions of human beings who follow those rules.  
And that's the greatness of science. It's one 
gigantic global enterprise in which someone in  
one country can identify the corona virus 
over a weekend and two weeks later someone  
in a different country many countries in fact can 
design a vaccine for it. All collaborating through  
these institutions by the way that also helps 
with freedom because it means you can't be an  
authoritarian and command other people which leads 
to the third. It's consensual. It's non-coercive.  
Liberalism is always looking for alternatives 
to coercion and force. Now, sometimes you need  
coercion and force. People break the law. You've 
got to raise taxes. But they're looking for ways  
to minimize this and instead give people 
incentives to cooperate. And of course,  
that's the magic of Adam Smith's Invisible Hand. 
But that's also the magic of science. You inspire  
people to do experiments and persuade each other 
to to create knowledge. No one's in a position  
to say, "I'm going to throw you in jail if you're 
wrong, or I'm going to have all your books burned  
by authority of the state." That non-coercion 
not only protects freedom, but it also gives  
you better results because it's giving people 
positive incentives to incentives to cooperate  
on a gigantic scale. The fourth of these of these 
revolutionary changes is self-correcting. Now,  
someone's going to say, "Look at all the things 
that went wrong and didn't get corrected at all  
or maybe didn't get corrected for 200 years." 
and they're going to point to slavery. And  
unquestionably in science, you get bad theories 
that survive for a long time. In politics, you get  
bad situations like Jim Crow that last a very long 
time. And yet, liberalism is unique as a system  
because all other systems for organizing society, 
you can run the tape either forward or backward,  
and you won't see a direction of progress. You 
won't see progress specifically toward equality  
or greater human rights. You won't see progress 
toward greater knowledge or freedom. You won't see  
economic progress. For most of human history, 
basically the economic growth curve was flat.  
Nothing happened. Liberalism is different. It has 
a direction which is it self-corrects over time.  
All of these systems about looking for and finding 
each other's mistakes and errors. And that means  
the liberal tape, you can always tell it's running 
in a direction. If you're seeing the production of  
more knowledge, if you're seeing more and more 
people being drawn into the circle of human  
rights and equality, if you're seeing government 
that is more rules-based according to rule of  
law and less authoritarian, and if you're seeing 
markets that are producing growth and expanding,  
you always know which way the tape is running. And 
that is unique to liberalism. One mistake that I  
think a lot of people make about liberalism, Markx 
made this mistake. It's often full of conflicts  
and contradictions and it'll be getting stuff 
wrong and it'll have people arguing about things  
and Markx thought that this was a fatal flaw of 
capitalism. It had internal contradictions and in  
the working out of those contradictions it would 
blow itself up or fall apart and communism would  
then supersede it. And what all these people 
don't understand is that those contradictions,  
those conflicts, those those constant challenges 
within the system are a feature, not a bug.  
Because working through those is what allows us to 
bring in the new ideas, the new the new systems,  
uh the new laws, the compromises, all the things 
that allow for both dynamism and change. on the  
one hand and yet an overarching stability on the 
other. And so yeah, liberalism can get stuck for  
a while and kind of a side Eddie. Bad things can 
go on for a long time. I know that story. I am a  
homosexual American. I'm a gay man born in America 
in 1960. In every single state in the union,  
it was illegal to be gay. We were actually 
menaced with prison in the world I grew up  
in. The idea that that today I would be married 
to a man, happily married, unbelievable. And yet  
it was within that system that the contradictions, 
the obvious contradictions between the aspirations  
of society, how it's supposed to treat people and 
the reality of society, how it was treating gay  
people. That became something that led to FOMO. 
It led to protest. It led to litigation. And it  
sparked people's consciences. and and here I am 
happily married now for over 10 years. And so I  
just encourage people who say, "Yeah, liberalism 
isn't perfect. It gets stuck." I say, "Yeah,  
but no one has a better idea." And and actually 
no one has an idea that's that's nearly as good.  
Liberalism is very challenging. It requires people 
to follow all kinds of rules. It requires them  
to try to blind themselves to the identity of 
the people they're dealing with. It asks them  
to try to put aside their tribal affiliations, 
cooperate with total strangers across the world  
on on all kinds of projects. It protects minority 
rights, something that majorities never like to  
do. It's deeply counterintuitive liberalism. asks 
a whole lot of people way more than tribalism or  
monarchy which are our our hardwired systems of 
of governance. And so that means that every day  
we who are liberal have to get up every morning 
for the rest of our lives and reexlain this system  
from scratch. And our kids will have to do it and 
their kids and and so will their kids. And one way  
we do that is the way I've been doing it, which is 
by saying this is the system that uh that protects  
our rights. But the most important way to do it 
for a lot of people is to look at the products of  
liberalism to say what is this actually done for 
us? And the answer here is very evident on on at  
least four different fronts. So no particular 
order. Freedom liberal comes from the root of  
free. The idea of free and equal individuals is 
hardwired. That's not true of every system. But  
that means that there are certain builtin guard 
rails against authoritarian individuals and tribes  
and movement to try to take over the system 
and marginalize or force out other people. No  
other system has provides that degree of freedom. 
Second, prosperity. None of the other systems that  
have been tried and there have been many and they 
include in the modern world communism and they  
include in the previous world feudalism. None has 
produced consistent economic growth and prosperity  
which we now take for granted. We assume it's 
a you know mediocre year if GDP growth rises  
by I don't know 2% a year not realizing that 
under previous regimes 2% a century would be  
pretty good. So we get this tremendous prosperity 
that we see around us. Of course, we get problems  
that go with that and that's part of the constant 
re-evaluation and adjustment that we talked about,  
but that's essential. Third, we get knowledge. 
Possibly the greatest aspect of the system is  
that humanity now produces literally more new 
knowledge in any given morning than it did in  
our first 200,000 years as a species. And and the 
rate at which we're producing knowledge is only  
accelerating. By all the measures of science that 
we have, the faster we learn, the more we learn.  
And now AI is coming to that mix. So who knows? No 
other system produces knowledge at that rate. And  
no other system is able to bring us into agreement 
about who's right, force us into constructive  
dialogue, persuade each other through experiment 
and rational argumentation. And that leads to what  
may in fact be the ultimate liberal product and 
that's peace. A crucial element of liberalism,  
another defining element is it tries to settle 
disputes in non-coercive cooperative ways. It  
looks for peaceful ways to resolve things. It 
says, "Look, I'm going to follow some rules and  
you're going to follow the same rules. We're going 
to agree to some of those rules. We may disagree  
about principles and have to re renegotiate. 
But if we live in a society where we can follow  
those rules, we don't have to go to war with 
each other and settle things through violence,  
through bloodshed. We can find alternative ways 
to um to end our disputes. And ultimately, that's  
what all of these systems do. Liberal markets 
allocate scarce resources without forcing people  
into violent conflicts. Liberal democracy forces 
people to compromise and negotiate with each other  
all across multiple levels of government without 
violence. And liberal science settles disputes  
about the nature of reality which historically 
have caused massive wars, wars of religion.  
It's thought today, you know, a third of the 
population of today's Germany was killed in  
those wars. You've never seen science wars where 
scientists, you know, get their bows and arrows  
or their flamethrowers or whatever and get in 
tanks and start wiping each other out. They  
have to persuade. And peace, I think, is is the 
ultimate product of liberalism. And maybe if you  
had to pin me down on on the one of the four 
that's most precious, it might be that one.  
If people take away one thing about liberalism, 
it's that we too often think of it abstractly,  
you know, as a grand statement or as a political 
theory. But it is also a social technology.  
And it's the most important human social 
technology and the best social technology  
ever invented because it allows us to coordinate 
human affairs on a scale in the billions on a  
planetary scale as well as a national scale. And 
it allows unprecedented peace, freedom, knowledge,  
and prosperity. And all of those things are true. 
And the most overlooked part of this is what I  
call the constitution of knowledge, which is the 
part that that I think I've given the most thought  
to and have spilled the most ink on. and in some 
ways is is the part that may be under the most  
strain right now. One of the hardest problems that 
any human society faces at any scale, whether it's  
a small tribe or a large nation is figuring out 
who's right and who's wrong about what's actually  
true in the outside world. Now, that's not 
necessarily hard. And if you're in a small group  
of humans and you have a question like, "Is that 
a tiger in the bush or just a breeze?" or "Where  
can I find water?" or "Where is the neighboring 
tribe camped?" It's not too hard to stay in touch  
with reality. But as soon as you get to anything 
much more abstract than that, like why is it not  
raining? What god should I pray to to make it 
rain? You get contention. And a lot depends on  
those disputes. Those contentions often lead to 
conflict and war or to avoid them you wind up with  
authoritarian solutions like priests and oracles 
which have no contact with reality at all. So you  
get societies that are oppressive and ignorant 
and that's the way we ran human affairs for  
the first 200 300,000 years. It didn't work out 
super well from the point of view of knowledge.  
So, liberalism comes along and it looks at 
this spotty record and then it looks at the  
wars of religion in the 1500s and 1600s. People 
in Europe went to war, Catholic versus Protestant,  
Protestant versus Protestant, and huge huge 
numbers of deaths over a long period of time.  
And they said, "How can we stop that?" And they 
said, "Well, let's switch to a different way of  
deciding what's true and what's false." Let's say 
we're going to have a set of rules and we're going  
to have to persuade each other using evidence and 
reason argument that anyone can see. It shouldn't  
matter who you are. So, we're going to have a 
couple rules. One is no final say. You don't  
have a prince or a priest who's in a position 
to shut down the debate. You can always ask the  
next question. And the other is no purely personal 
authority. I don't get special say because of my  
color or because who I was what tribe I was born 
into or anything else. If I say I can see it, you  
have to be able to see it. If it seems rational to 
me, it has to seem rational to you. That gives us  
the foundation for a system in which people can 
start correcting each other and looking for each  
other's mistakes. In a system like that, we figure 
out a way to cope with the fundamental problem  
of reality, which is that we are all inherently 
biased. There are dozens and dozens of documented  
human cognitive biases, but we cannot see our own 
biases. They prevent us from grasping reality,  
but we cannot see our own biases. However, you can 
see some of mine, and I can see some of yours. And  
if we're put into an environment where we have 
rules and institutions that force us to agree,  
that force us to persuade each other and criticize 
each other, we put those biases, we harness them,  
we pit them against each other. And the product 
of that is truth. I talk about this thing called  
the constitution of knowledge. Why do I say that? 
It's because the principle that I just outlined  
is almost identical in structure to the principle 
of the US Constitution, which says you're going to  
have a lot of different factions in societies, 
people from different regions, people with  
different interests, people with different 
ideologies. What do you do about that? Well,  
Madison says famously in the Federalists, 
"How do you solve the problem of ambition?  
You can't contain ambition. There's only one 
thing that works. You pit ambition against  
ambition. I think the single greatest idea in the 
whole of political theory. You harness ambition  
by forcing people through the constitution to 
compromise. That's why the president can veto  
what congress does, but congress can override 
the veto. But the courts can override congress,  
but the others can change the constitution. All 
of that is forcing people to have an ongoing  
negotiation and compromise. And what comes out the 
other end is something like a consensus. It turns  
out the institutions and norms and rules that we 
use to structure the search for knowledge are very  
similar in structure to the ones that we use to 
structure our constitutional form of government.  
That's the constitution of knowledge. It's the 
institutions and the rules and the norms that  
structure our collective search for knowledge. 
It is not a metaphor. It's not a simile or figure  
of speech. There actually is a constitution of 
knowledge. It's not written down in one place,  
but it's written down in lots of places. These 
are the rules that the American Association of  
University professors first wrote down in the 
early part of the 20th century. They're the rules  
the American Society of Newspaper editors wrote 
down around the same period about the right way  
to go about reporting. They're all the rules 
for citations and how labs operate ethically.  
They're the rules in law about how lawyers present 
evidence and stick to truth and can be penalized  
if they don't. On and on and on. Those are the 
rules and structures which guide us in our search  
for knowledge. And that's what makes science and 
intellectual progress possible. The constitution  
of knowledge. It's a very robust system because 
for reasons that we've already discussed,  
it's decentralized. It's open-ended. It's it's 
non-coercive. It's self- adjusting over time.  
And all those things make it very enduring. Like 
if you want to end the process of global science,  
where would you go to do that? You can do that 
in a country for a while like the Soviet Union,  
but then it's going to collapse because you're 
collide with reality. So in the sense that there's  
no other system that works for creating knowledge 
on a global scale in a way that's peaceful and  
productive and realistic, it's very robust. On 
the other hand, it's also fragile because there  
are all of these rules and settings that you 
have to get right. A lot of people think, well,  
free speech is enough. You have a marketplace of 
ideas and you have a lot of free speech and out  
of that the best ideas will float to the top. 
If you ask most American undergraduates where  
knowledge comes from, you know, a lot of them will 
say the marketplace of ideas as if it's automatic.  
The problem is it's not automatic. Free speech 
isn't enough. You need all of these rules and  
guidelines. And in the sciences, it takes decades 
to come through an educational and training  
process to learn those rules and those disciplines 
and become expert in how they work. And those are  
fragile because there's a lot that can go wrong. 
And they're also fragile more fundamentally  
Because for a lot of people the constitution of 
knowledge is hostile to what they want to believe.  
For example, the constitution of knowledge through 
the what I call the reality based community that's  
science, journalism, law and government, all 
reality based have refuted the idea that the  
earth is about 5,600 years old. It it just 
doesn't wash. People no longer in those fields  
contest that. They no longer explore it. There 
are a lot of people who believe that the earth  
is about 5,600 years old and they believe that 
that's very important and they're very unhappy.  
People are taught otherwise. There are a lot of 
people who are unhappy that for example biology  
insists on evolution. There are a lot of people 
who are unhappy right now that we have a lot of  
science about vaccination that they disagree with 
uh and that they don't like. One of those happens  
to be the sitting secretary of health and human 
services. So, anybody with a particular belief  
that they're defending that goes against say a 
scientific consensus is not going to like this  
system. or anyone who believes that we live 
in a universe where miracles or magic occur  
on an everyday basis, they're not going to 
like this system because you're not allowed  
to have miracles and magic in science because 
you can only have things that other people can  
reproduce. And by definition, miracles aren't 
reproducible. So, they're going to be unhappy  
with it. authoritarians are going to be super 
unhappy with it because there's nothing more anti-  
athoritarian than reality. All those things that 
tell dictators, you know, invading that country or  
uh taking undertaking huge amounts of 
debt or throwing your opponents in jail,  
it's not going to work. They don't want to hear 
that. They want to do what they want to do and  
they're not going to let science, liberal science 
and the constitution of knowledge get in the way.  
So the first thing authoritarians do when they 
can is shut down the constitution of knowledge  
because they believe it's a power that they 
cannot control. And they're right about that.  
All of that means that there always has been and 
that there always will be a large and varied and  
determined constellation of people who don't 
like the constitution of knowledge. They either  
don't like part of it or they don't like all of 
it. And that's the challenge that we're always  
facing. And that brings us to the present. 
That brings us to the challenges right now.
Chapter two, the global backlash to liberalism. 
Since the day it was originated back in the  
16th and 17th centuries, liberalism has been 
controversial from the very beginning. It has had  
powerful and dedicated opposition. You can look at 
the church which put Galileo under arrest. You can  
look at Marxism and communism. You could look at 
theocracies places like Iran today. You can look  
at fascism. One after another, large numbers of 
human beings have said for one reason or another,  
liberalism is wrong. It upsets the natural 
order of things. It offends God. It allows  
dangerous alternative lifestyles. It's unfair. 
on and on and on and today is no exception  
to that. There's a headline today. We see it 
everywhere. We see tons of books being written,  
many of them being written by our most 
prominent liberal thinkers. You know,  
people are great thinkers, people like James Davis 
and Hunter and and Francis Fukuyama and Brink  
Lindseay and others who were saying liberalism 
is in crisis right now. It's not the first time  
people have said this. Liberalism was in crisis 
when Karl Marx came along. Markx was no dummy.  
Markx was seeing turbulent change in society 
that looked at the time as if capitalism was  
on track to dismantle itself because the working 
conditions in the factories of the 1840s and 1850s  
as documented by people like Charles Dickens were 
were so deplorable. Looked like capitalism was  
making people worse off not better off and making 
society more stratified not less stratified and so  
forth. And that led to a crisis which of course 
led to communism. Communism turned out to be the  
most bloodthirsty ideology in in human history. 
We've had recurrent crises and they tend to have  
in common periods of rapid social change. When 
you've got liberal institutions that have been  
set up and they're kind of ticking along and they 
seem to be running okay. So, you know, in the  
1970s and 80s and 90s, we thought we had a pretty 
good congressional system and the economy seemed  
to be firing on most cylinders and the budget was 
balanced and so forth. And then we get shocks and  
those shocks cause disruptions. And because of 
the decentralized nature of these liberal systems  
and because they're rules based, they can't turn 
on a dime. They evolve over time. They tend to  
be bottom up. And so they go through these periods 
when society is demanding more from them than they  
can deliver. Now all the other systems would be 
worse because they're so corrupt and authoritarian  
and they don't have good inputs. But in these 
moments, the challenge for liberalism is to adapt,  
to change, to meet new needs, to find new ways of 
doing things, new structures, new products, new  
ideas at a fast enough clip to adapt. And a lot of 
people think, and I think they're quite probably  
right, that we're in one of those moments right 
now. So, we've had a series of shocks. We had 911,  
the financial meltdown of 2008, 2009. Every so 
often markets fall apart. We've known that about  
them since Adam Smith's time. And that caused 
a crisis which has caused a a a big reduction  
in confidence in liberalism. You had COVID which 
a lot of people think the system didn't handle  
very well. We can argue about that, but that put a 
lot of strain on the system. You had the eruption  
of social media and the decline of the traditional 
reality gatekeepers in places like journalism, you  
know, conventional mainstream media. You had the 
rise of algorithms which are disruptive. You know,  
as the saying goes, enragement is engagement. 
And you've had a decline for other reasons in  
traditional organized religion which left a lot 
of people looking for meaning in life. And you  
get all those things and they're kind of coming 
along at once, right? That's a lot to deal with.  
It doesn't matter if you're liberal or illiberal. 
That is a lot to deal with. And that's what we're  
adjusting to right now. And it's I I won't I 
won't kid anyone. It's it's a major challenge.  
So liberalism is a recent invention. Like it's 
really dates back to 350 years ago. That's the  
blink of an eye in human evolution. Illiberalism 
is everything else and it's a lot older.  
It's all of the many many theories and systems of 
running a government, an economy, a truth seeeking  
process which is based on coercion for example, on 
hierarchy, on tribe, on fundamental distinctions  
between different types of humans. So if you're 
saying that a person from Africa is inferior  
and can only be a slave, that is illiberalism. If 
you're saying that freedom is a dangerous concept,  
that's an idea that goes back to Plato, which 
is long before modern liberalism. He believed  
that democracy, that freedom would would lead to 
decadence. He wanted to have a North Korean style  
dictatorship led by someone like himself. 
Illiberalism goes back much longer than  
liberalism, and it takes many, many forms. It's 
really it's a catch-all term for really almost  
anything that disputes the core idea that all 
humans are born free and equal. And that comes  
in in so many different flavors. So today we've 
got a group um that go loosely under what's called  
post-liberalism. And those are groups of people. 
They're they exist in one form on the right and  
another form on the left. But they basically say 
liberalism is out of date. It's no longer serving  
our needs as a country or as a community or as 
basic humans. It comes in all kinds of flavors.  
People of a theological bent who say liberalism is 
hostile to God, to faith, to communities of faith,  
and that's unmuring us from our basic values. 
You have nationalist post-liberals who say  
liberalism dissolves national boundaries and 
it dissolves ethnic ties and other social ties  
that hold countries together. So it's dissolving 
us in this big multinational global meaningless  
mindless soup. Vice President of the United States 
seems to believe something like that. You've got  
opponents of capitalism on the right. Um you've 
got all kinds of people who think that science  
is threatening antia. There's there's all kinds 
of things over there. And then on the left you  
have people who are identified with post-modern 
forms of illiberalism. And these people who say  
there's no such thing as objective reality. It's 
really all just about discourse and it's about who  
controls the discourse and those who control 
the discourse control reality. So they say  
science is just a game that's being played for 
the benefit of privileged white males. They've  
talked in the past about, you know, they've had 
afroentric science. Um they question the very  
idea that truth should even matter. They think 
it's politics all the way down. And that's had  
a deep foothold actually in the academic left. And 
all of those things are circulating out there. Um,  
none of them is entirely new. And the challenge 
today, as always, is is to defend from those  
ideas, to make our case against them. You know, 
they're not they're not weak and stupid ideas.  
They're wrong ideas, but they're not weak and 
stupid. The two biggest challenges I point to  
in my book on the constitution of knowledge, 
one is coming predominantly from the left and  
it's called cancel culture and another is coming 
predominantly from the right and that's a campaign  
of anti-liberal propaganda and they're quite 
different but they have a common goal which is  
to undermine Americans or potentially the world's 
collective sense of reality and undermine the  
institutions that we rely on to keep us connected 
to reality. So start with the one on the left,  
not the liberal left. These are not, you know, 
center-left people. These are more the far left.  
These are the postmodernists. These are the people 
who believe objective truth is itself a lie. These  
are the people who believe that science is a 
colonialist and oppressive institution that  
we need to be freed from. These are the people 
who'd like uh to have a hierarchy in which certain  
groups would be privileged over other groups. They 
figured out that even though they're a minority in  
cultural institutions like universities, that 
if they organized and functioned in ways that  
could basically punish disscent that they could 
create a false consensus where it kind of appears  
that everyone on campus is on the left and that 
challenging these propositions they uphold about  
race, class, gender, whatever it happens to be, is 
certainly dangerous and probably wrong. And this  
is a very sophisticated propaganda technique. It's 
called consensus spoofing. And it's based on the  
psychological principle. It's been demonstrated 
in countless experiments. That if I'm sitting  
in a room with seven other people who all say 
something that doesn't seem to me to be true, but  
they're all insisting that it's true, I'm going 
to be influenced by that. Either to stay quiet,  
but more often to even doubt what my own eyes 
tell me. So if you can manipulate the apparent  
consensus, you can make people doubt their beliefs 
at at sometimes at a maximum. You can make people  
change their beliefs. At a minimum, you can make 
people shut up. And that's what cancelling did.  
This said, we're going to use all kinds of social 
mechanisms. We won't be governmental necessarily,  
but we're going to investigate you. We're going 
to hammer you, uh, brigade you on social media.  
We're going to threaten your job. We're going to 
threaten your reputation. We're going to call you  
things like racist or homophobe or transphobe. 
We have a dozen different ways to make your life  
miserable if you speak out in dissent from what we 
think correct the correct viewpoint is. As people  
are, I'm sure thinking right now, there is nothing 
new about this. This goes back to the beginning  
of time. But these techniques were effectively 
harnessed in environments like many universities  
and they had new tools like social media. It 
used to be it was difficult and timeconuming  
to try to round up you know a petition against 
someone to condemn them. With social media it  
was instantaneous. You could get on Facebook, you 
could get on what was then Twitter and organize a  
campaign against someone and overnight they would 
have to apologize or be vilified. and sometimes  
they apologized and were vilified anyway. So 
that's cancel culture. It was a real thing.  
It's a documented thing. It's not the same as 
reason criticism which is allowed under science  
under under the constitution of knowledge. It's 
quite different. That however probably peaked a  
few years ago. It's still out there. It's still 
a problem and we still need to fight it and be  
aware of it. But a lot more people now are aware 
of it. especially on campus, they've become more  
aware that they've been manipulated by these kinds 
of tactics, that small numbers of activists have  
managed to shut down debate and disscent. That 
there's not enough viewpoint diversity on campus,  
that students and faculty need to feel more free 
to have robust conversations. I wouldn't say we've  
turned a corner there, but I'd say we're headed 
in the right general direction. Okay. What's the  
other big problem today? The other big threat it 
used to be if you wanted to manipulate reality,  
one way to do that was censorship because we had 
a lot of gatekeepers. So if you were government,  
for example, you could out and out shut down um 
or prosecute an outlet that you disagree with.  
But then along comes social media and related 
technologies and they say actually wait a minute,  
you can do the opposite of censorship. You can 
drown people out. You can make it very difficult  
or impossible for people telling the truth 
to get attention by doing what Steve Bannon  
called flooding the zone with [ __ ] Now, this 
is something he actually said and it's a a very  
good summary of a propaganda technique that was 
originally pioneered by the Russians. They're  
still the best practitioners. And it's called fire 
hose of falsehood disinformation campaigns. And  
that's where the goal is not to put out a single 
false narrative and persuade people. It's to put  
out such a deluge of false narratives of lies, 
halftruths, exaggeration and conspiracy theories  
that people can't tell what's up anymore. They 
can't tell what's true, what's false. They become  
cynical f of fatalistic. And when they're cynical 
and fatalistic, they become passive and they stay  
home. That's how Putin has manipulated the Russian 
population. Along comes a guy in America who  
understands this. His name is Donald J. Trump. 
He is, in my opinion, the most sophisticated  
propaganda operative since certain people in the 
1930s who I won't name. He is brilliant at this  
stuff. He knows he's good at it because he's 
talked about it over the course of his career.  
He understands that if you say something false 
often enough, it will sink in. And in fact,  
just making people refute it will make it sink in 
even more. He understands that if you say enough  
self-contradictory things at a fast enough 
clip, people will lose their orientation to  
reality altogether. So you don't want to have a 
consistent story and stick with it. You want to  
say all kinds of different things at a different 
rate. He understands another propaganda tactic.  
It's called reversal. That's because he'd rather 
have a puppet as president of the United States.  
And it's pretty clear. It's pretty clear you 
won't admit that the Russians have engaged.  
I'm not the puppet. You're the puppet. Whatever 
you say about me, I turn around and say to you  
another tactic of mass confusion. He then both 
as a candidate and then as a president harnesses  
every avenue to this end. He uses the government 
and the White House to propagate election lies.  
He and his supporters used the court. They 
were going to court as a fire hose of falsehood  
propaganda channel to just populate the world with 
these false narratives. They have their own media  
channels. They have social media. They have um uh 
the repetitors in the Republican party. These are  
very sophisticated cognitive manipulation tactics. 
They're not something that we're accustomed to  
dealing with in an American context. Eastern 
Europeans and places in the Baltics know all  
about them, but we're not used to them here. And 
they caught us off guard. And we in the reality  
based community are still racing and struggling 
to catch up and to reestablish orientation to  
reality. And it's I got to say um it's touch and 
go. It's really tough. the attacks that I worry  
about at the moment, the attack from President 
Trump and the MAGA movement and the elements  
of of non realitybased conservative media uh and 
social media worry me much more. The challenges to  
basic reality now control crucial branches of the 
federal government. So you have people in places  
like the Justice Department waging prosecutions of 
the president's political antagonists and enemies  
and just people he has grudges against based on 
what lawyers in the administration know are not  
true narratives or not violation of law. But when 
those people object and say you can't do that,  
they get fired or sidelined. You have agencies of 
government u like for example the department of  
homeland security promoting narratives that 
are just plain false like that the election  
was stolen. When you have the government driving 
false propaganda narratives in the United States  
you're in a different world. American government 
like like all liberal governments but maybe more  
than most. American government is just structured, 
shot through with institutions designed to keep it  
mored from reality for the simple reason that 
if the government isn't mored to reality, it's  
totalitarian. It can propound its own alternative 
version of reality and it can use that to arrest  
you, to throw you in jail or kill you. And 
that's what historically they've done. So you've  
got everything from the congressional budget 
office and intelligence community and places  
like the justice all through the government, the 
national oceanic and aeronautics administration,  
the weather bureau, the department of labor 
statistics, they're all in the business of  
forcing government to stay real. When you subvert 
those government mechanisms and you use them to  
substitute alternative reality or as Kellyanne 
Conway famously put it, alternative facts right  
there, you are flirting with a totalitarian style 
of government because that's what totalitarian  
governments try to do. Hijack and control truth 
itself. I'm not saying we're all the way there,  
but I'm saying we need to be really careful 
because there are people trying to do that to us  
right now. These are both worldwide phenomenon, 
but cancel culture phenomena turns out to be  
mostly an anglosphere phenomenon. We've seen 
it most in the United States and Canada, UK,  
Australia, New Zealand, and even there it seems 
to be on the Wayne because, you know, it's it's  
pretty hard to use tactics of intimidation to 
shut people up for a very long time because after  
a while they feel, you know, this doesn't make 
sense. I don't want to do this anymore. And that  
seems to be happening. What about the campaigns 
of disinformation, the fire hose of falsehood,  
uh the other very sophisticated cognitive warfare 
techniques? Those are global. Those originate at  
the time of the Zars and Lenin in Russia. Russia 
is still the world's best practitioner of these  
tactics, but they're being imitated across the 
globe. So, you know, you see them in places like  
Hungary where the government that was recently 
defeated was trying to propagate narratives that  
were false about the war in Ukraine, saying, 
you know, it was instigated by Ukraine and  
Ukraine is is is our enemy. You see people using 
these tactics in places like Poland. Of course,  
you see them in the United States right now. So, 
we see these right-wing authoritarian and populist  
parties all over the all over the world harnessing 
social media and other tactics. You saw some of  
this in the Brexit campaign in 2016 where we can 
have an argument about whether Brexit was a good  
idea or a bad idea. But the main argument that the 
Brexit side used, which was that it would allow  
huge amounts of money to be to be captured and 
diverted into the British National Health Service.  
That was just false and that was known to be 
false. But that proved to be a powerful narrative  
online which they were able to propagate. 
Arguably that caused Brexit to go through.  
All of these techniques that we're talking 
about, it's very important to understand we  
are all vulnerable to them. Being smart does not 
help. In fact, there's evidence that smart people  
are more vulnerable to cognitive manipulation 
because we're better at rationalizing whatever  
it is that we hear that we want to believe. Being 
smart does not protect you. These are fundamental  
cognitive flaws in our brains and how we perceive 
the world. And mobilizing them and exploiting them  
is a fine art. How do you resist them? That's why 
you need a constitution of knowledge. Ultimately,  
what the constitution of knowledge is doing is 
protecting us from our own cognitive flaws by  
forcing us to subject our own beliefs and 
perceptions to the beliefs and perceptions  
of others to compare them and say, "Okay, who's 
right and who's wrong in this situation? What's  
true and what's not?" And to do this on rigorous 
principles of evidence and reason. That's the only  
protection. And that's why these forces around the 
globe are trying to dismantle the constitution of  
knowledge so that they can substitute their own 
version of reality or even worse total chaos and  
no reality at all. One of the most confusing 
debates at the moment is what to say about the  
MAGA movement in the United States and its foreign 
equivalents. They're all different in different  
countries. things like the Peace Party, PIS Party 
in Poland and AFD in Germany, which tend to be on  
the far right and tend to be illiberal. One of the 
things that this is leading to is an understanding  
that right now in real time in the United States 
during the second Trump administration and through  
the MAGA movement and its tactics, we're seeing 
something that's starting to emerge as a kind of  
updated 21st century version of American fascism. 
At least to me at least. I'm someone who who  
really avoided characterizing the MAGO movement 
as fascist because a lot of things just didn't  
fit certainly not in the first term. Like they 
didn't seem interested in conquering or coercing  
territory from other countries and they didn't 
seem interested in standing up domestic military  
uh parapolicing units. They didn't seem that 
interested in street violence. So there's a lot  
of elements of fascism that we didn't see that. 
Unfortunately, we're starting to see them now in  
the second term. There's not one clearly defined 
thing called fascism. There never has been. Not  
even fascists have agreed on what fascism is. So, 
my approach is a diagnostic list of 18 things that  
are all characteristic of iterations of fascism 
that we've seen and all of which are appearing in  
the Trump administration. If it w was one or two 
or even five or six, okay, you know, maybe there's  
some bad stuff going on. But when you see 18 of 
these things, and I could have extended the list,  
you got real trouble on your hands. So what kinds 
of things are we talking about? We're talking  
about the valorization of violence, like when you 
glory in violence, when you're putting out memes,  
celebrating killing of boat survivors by people 
in helicopters with machine guns. Another is that  
fascists hate rational deliberation. They think it 
slows them down. and they celebrate the triumph of  
the will, which is rapid, firm decision-making by 
the leader, no questions asked. And we're seeing  
that again and again in this administration. The 
use of paramilitary police forces that are told  
that they are not accountable to the rule of law, 
that are told that they can do anything they want  
and touch anyone they want, committing acts of 
violence against citizens. That's not a hallmark  
of liberal democracy, but that is something 
that you would not be at all surprised to see  
in a fascist country. To me, one of the biggest 
is more philosophical than that. The preeminent  
philosopher of fascism in the early part of the 
20th century is a German named Carl Schmidt.  
Schmidt promulgated the theory that what politics 
is about is not as in liberalism figuring out ways  
to get along with each other in a pluralistic 
world where we disagree. It's the opposite of  
that. It's about identifying our enemies and 
crushing them. He said politics is inherently  
about winning and crushing your enemies. Now, 
we heard a member of this administration say  
publicly, "You can talk all you want about 
international nicities and everything else,  
but we live in a world in the real world, Jake, 
that is governed by strength, that is governed  
by force, that is governed by power." that 
substitution of domination and strength for  
rule of law and morality. The idea that the 
rule of law and of moral principles are for  
wimps and sissies and losers. That's core to the 
self-conceptualization of fascism. And the idea  
also stated by an administration official that 
the other side is wicked and we're coming to get  
you. Your time is over. These things and other 
and others like them are all deeply alien to the  
tradition of James Madison and our founders, 
the liberal tradition and they are all common  
to versions of authoritarianism and fascism. I 
am not saying America is a fascist country. Our  
courts remain independent. Our Congress remains 
partly independent. Our state governments remain  
independent and our people remain independent 
and our media remain independent. There is no  
way that Trump or MAGA or anyone else can do in 
the United States, I believe, what Hitler did  
in Germany or what Mussolini did in Italy. But 
what they can do is eat away at the foundations  
of the system and acculturate a whole bunch of 
people in our major one of our major political  
parties to a fascist way of thinking about our 
country. And that by itself is pretty dangerous.
Chapter 3, the surprising link between liberalism 
and Christianity. There is a standard criticism  
of liberalism and it's that liberalism does not 
provide people with a larger sense of meaning in  
life. There's a a weaker version of the critique 
that liberalism doesn't provide meaning in life,  
purpose in life. And then there's a stronger 
version of it. And I think the weaker one is  
true. And the stronger one is not true. And the 
weaker one just says liberalism is necessary, but  
it's not sufficient. It doesn't give you a sense 
of transcendence or a place in your world. And  
that's on purpose. That's a feature, not a bug, of 
liberalism. It's deliberately thin. something the  
founders stressed, liberalism is going to create 
the space for people to invent themselves and  
invent their communities and their societies. 
It's going to get out of the way of religion.  
It's going to get out of the way of invention. 
It's going to get out of the way of truth and  
allow people to unfold that for themselves. But 
what it doesn't do, what it doesn't try to do,  
and what it cannot do is answer ultimate questions 
like the difference between good and evil, like  
why am I here on this planet? like what should I 
dedicate life to doing? And the founders told us  
liberal theorists going back to lock arguably the 
father of it all have said look you're going to  
have to look to other sources for that and that 
will always be a problem for liberalism because  
to a lot of people it's not enough and it's not 
supposed to be enough but that means we have this  
challenge of meaning where people keep saying 
to us liberals so what is it all for? what's  
the meaning and we say I don't know you tell 
me so that criticism is true but it's a feature  
not a bug then there's a stronger criticism and 
this dates back to the 19th century at least to  
Marx especially to Nietz and now it's major strand 
of what's called post-liberalism mostly from the  
illiberal or uh liberal right often the uh the 
theocrats as some have called And the strong  
version of this critique says liberalism is by its 
very nature destructive of core values like faith,  
family and community and nation. They say these 
things cannot coexist because liberalism puts  
individual autonomy and freedom before all other 
values. It says do whatever you want. It doesn't  
matter. you're not accountable to God, you're not 
accountable to family and so forth. That what a  
liberal society is going to do is undermine 
the values that it depends on and ultimately  
self-destruct. And therefore, we need to move away 
from liberalism and toward a society founded on  
religious principles. That means to one school 
Catholic principles, to others it means forms of  
Christian nationalism, the seven mountains mandate 
they call it. uh lots of different things that  
they want to substitute for liberalism, but that 
have in common a kind of authoritarian view of  
where values come from from God, the Bible, what 
have you. Now, that strong version is just wrong.  
We know from 350 years that's that religion, faith 
institutions are stronger in societies that allow  
people to choose their own faith and their own 
religion. The reason the founders put in the  
first amendment forbidding government to have a 
state religion is that they understood that the  
state is a danger to religion. And it's also the 
only way you can honestly come to God because if  
someone is forcing you to do that by government 
fiat, that's not real witness whether you're a  
Christian or anyone else. What is kind of true 
here and the part of this critique that folks  
like me are taking seriously is it's challenging 
to be a person of faith in a secular liberal world  
that's where a lot of people are consumeristic 
where you've got a lot of materialism where  
you've got a lot of secularism and I think it 
is true that we secular liberals lost track of  
the importance of our faith institutions and our 
faith faith tradition, specifically Christianity,  
because that's America's founding faith 
tradition. We lost touch with how important  
that is as an undergurting of our democracy. And 
we haven't been as welcoming as we should be,  
as inclusive as we should be, as curious as we 
should be about the Christians and other people of  
faith in our in our midst. Liberal democracy does 
not supply all of its own values. It relies on  
outside sources to provide a lot of those values, 
to teach them, to promulgate them, to give a sense  
of transcendence. And when you look at safeguards 
against authoritarian challenges like for example  
fascism or for that matter like communism, 
something I think that the founders understood  
and that Lincoln understood is that the principles 
of Christianity are in their own way bull works of  
liberalism. Let me try to explain what I mean by 
that. And what I don't mean is that Christianity  
as practiced all of the time is liberal. God knows 
I'm a I mean I am a gay American and the number  
one force that made life miserable and painful 
and often suicidal for gay Americans was misguided  
religious teachings. So I'm not white whitewashing 
any of that. I also need to say another thing I'm  
not saying which is America is a Christian country 
and the Constitution is a Christian document. The  
founders specifically rejected references to Jesus 
and Christianity in the founding documents. They  
were prevailed upon to do that and they refused. 
And I'm not saying that you have to be a Christian  
to be a good American citizen. Far from it. I am 
not a Christian. I'm an atheistic Jew. Okay. So  
what am I saying? The core principles of Jesus 
Christ map awfully well onto the core principles  
of James Madison. And that's something that I 
did not appreciate enough until recently. Jesus
promulgates three core revolutionary values that 
are orthogonal to everything that went before.  
I mean, they have roots in Judaism, of course, 
but but they're different from everything that  
went before. Number one, don't be afraid. That's 
people say the most frequently repeated injunction  
in the Bible. What he means by that is look beyond 
this world to the next world. And if you're living  
your life hunker down in fear, being paranoid, 
you're forgetting that God has a plan for you and  
that the calm that Jesus demonstrates in his own 
life. The faith in God's plan will help you make  
better choices in life and help you be a better 
person. Two, imitate Jesus. Jesus is a radical  
egalitarian. This is new in history up in that 
point. Jesus's people are the poor and the weak,  
the prostitutes, the lame, the sick, um the 
outcast. Jesus's message is that all humans  
have an innate equality and dignity. And of 
course, that's a new idea. And that this is  
inherent. You never use people as a means to an 
end. Every individual is an end unto themselves.  
And the third principle of Jesus's Christianity is 
forgive each other. We may be angry. We may have  
outrages and sins committed against us, but it is 
God's place, not our place, to judge. And we must  
forgive. And that's the hardest commandment of 
all. But this leads to doctrines like mercy and  
grace, which are courted Christianity. researching 
my book, I'm an outsider to Christianity,  
but I interviewed theologians and pastors and no 
one disputed that those are three core doctrines  
of Christianity. I mean, some people wanted to add 
some other things like repentance. But everyone  
agrees that's at the heart of the teaching. 
Okay, let's take those three things and let's  
translate them over to James Madison and the 
core some of the core virtues of liberalism.  
the things that our founding fathers said that 
citizens need to show, need to demonstrate in  
order to keep our system running. One of them 
is sometimes you're going to lose an election.  
It's not the end of the world. Don't go through 
life being afraid that if the other side wins,  
it's the end of life as you know it and thus you 
have to steal the election or deny the election  
or end democracy. In fact, it's a good thing that 
sometimes you lose. Approach that in a spirit of  
adventure and not fear. You're going to learn 
from it. They're going to learn from it. Share  
the country. That maps very well onto don't 
be afraid. Don't be crouched down. Number two,  
imitate Jesus, fundamental equality and dignity of 
human individual. Well, that one's pretty obvious  
because it's right there in the Declaration of 
Independence and it's right out of those doctrines  
of Christianity. All men are created equal and 
endowed by their creator with certain unalienable  
rights. What they meant by that is that inherent 
equality and dignity of every person. And that of  
course is the core doctrine of liberalism itself. 
A very direct connection. And the third thing,  
the hard one, forgive each other. That doesn't 
translate directly, but it does translate  
indirectly into the principle of forbearance, 
which is sometimes in a liberal democracy, you're  
going to win an election, but the goal of winning 
in politics is not to obliterate the other side.  
We talked a minute ago about authoritarianism and 
fascism, and that according to Carl Schmidt and  
other fascists, your goal is to obliterate the 
other side. If necessary, you even murder the  
other side. Liberalism says, "No, you're going to 
show forbearance. You're going to treat them when  
they're out of power, the way you'll want to be 
treated someday if you're out of power. And that's  
going to build reciposity and trust that makes 
this system possible. And more than that, it's  
going to save your soul. Because if you go through 
life trying to destroy and dominate people who  
disagree with you, who are not like you, your own 
integrity and your own goodness will be demolished  
along with that. So there you have three core 
Christian values. You have three core liberal  
values and they support each other. I say they're 
like two planks which don't stand all that well  
individually, but if you lean them against each 
other, they're mutually reinforcing. And that's  
one of the reasons why the founders expected 
America in their day to turn to Christianity as  
not the necessary part of government, but as part 
of the substrate of the broader civil society,  
which they hoped would help support democracy by 
being Christian. What happens when Christianity  
moves away from those core values? In the white 
evangelical church in America, we've seen what  
amounts to something very close to a fusion with 
the Republican party. We've seen politicization.  
We've seen the elevation. Um the strongest 
supporters in the country of the least Christlike  
figure possibly to emerge in modern times are 
white evangelical Christians. And pastors who  
do not like this report what I call the church 
of fear. what one of them I talked to calls the  
battlefield mindset, which is we're not going 
to church with our eyes on the next world. We're  
going to church with our eyes on mobilizing the 
word of Christ to win in this world, to win the  
culture wars, to own the libs. That's had a couple 
effects. One is it's causing the rapid shrinkage  
of white evangelical churches. Fewer than half 
of Americans are now affiliated with a church.  
It was 70% 70% through the whole 20th century. And 
that's making it hard for democracy because now  
people are looking to partisan politics for their 
transcendent meaning in life. And that's not what  
politics does. Politics is about negotiation, 
not ultimate meaning. And then you have the  
other problem that when people get caught up in 
these narratives, these apocalyptic narratives of  
if we lose the next election, our way of life is 
endangered and our very position are being able  
to have Christmas in society is endangered. 
Then every election becomes apocalyptic and  
that's that's toxic to a liberal democracy. So as 
white Protestantism, white evangelicalism pulls  
away from those values of liberal democracy, as 
they become less mutually supportive and more  
mutually antagonistic, everything gets harder. 
And that I think is part of the crisis driving  
liberal democracy. And so where I come out all 
this is I think America needs more Christianity  
if it's going to be more successfully democratic 
and more successfully Christian. But the kind of  
Christianity I meant is the kind of Christianity 
that Jesus preached. For me, understanding the  
importance of healthy Christianity to healthy 
American democracy has has just been a journey.  
It's not at all where I started. In fact, in 
2003 for The Atlantic, I wrote what I think is  
the dumbest thing I've ever written. And believe 
me, that's that's an honor honorary designation  
because there's some other real contenders for 
that spot. But I wrote in praise of what I called  
apaththeism. And by that I meant secularization, 
which is I was looking at the numbers showing that  
Americans were becoming less religious. And I 
said, "Isn't that great?" Because religion is  
um divisive in human history and we'll all get 
along better if we have less of it. Well, we've  
been running that experiment now for for 22 years. 
We've seen a retreat from religion like nothing in  
American history. There's no parallel for the rate 
of deurching that we've seen the rapid the the  
um stratospheric rise of what are called the 
nuns n these are people who have no religious  
affiliation. And we've seen that the result of 
that include more loneliness, more isolation,  
more sense of enemy, nihilism, anger, and toxic 
partisanship. People replacing transcendent  
value of um of religious life with a kind of 
deified religion. Wokeness seems to be a version  
of this. Certain forms of environmentalists, 
environmentalism seem to partake of this. And just  
rank partisanship where the meaning of my life 
is defeating the other side. in in politics. So,  
we've run the experiment and I was wrong. I 
was just flat wrong. And I think a lot of other  
people have reached the same conclusion. And 
that's partly driving the contemporary liberal  
rediscovery of the importance of of faith as 
properly understood a bull work of our democracy.  
I only wish that I had not had to learn the hard 
way or that we had not had to learn the hard way.  
The way I think about it is kind of three 
varieties of Christianity, each with its own  
social implications. And the first of those 
is what happened to the mainline churches in  
the second half of the 20th century. These are 
your mainline Lutheran and Episcopalians and  
Methodists and uh to some extent though maybe a 
lesser extent Catholics. We're talking here about  
the white churches predominantly. The black church 
is is a in a different space. They got culturally  
thin. And what's meant by that is the Christianity 
is a countercultural doctrine. Jesus's teaching is  
at odds with the Judaism of his time. It's even 
more at odds with the Roman virtues of his time.  
And it asked people to be different from the 
surrounding society by focusing, for example,  
on the next world, by being radically forgiving. 
And that's been Christianity's historic strength,  
its differentness. It does best historically when 
it presents an example of a countercultural way of  
living. And a lot of the mainstream churches lost 
that and they began blending into the background.  
They became just another consumer choice. I had 
mainline pastor, one retired pastor told me that  
in his denomination, it became common for there 
be a whole whole church gatherings in which the  
word God was never mentioned. They got absorbed in 
a social gospel kind of teaching which was not so  
much about the scripture. It was about what are we 
doing in our daily lives to advance justice. Now  
that's a good thing but it's not as strong if it's 
divorced from the specific teachings of Jesus and  
the Bible. And they just kind of they just kind of 
blended into the surrounding left-leaning society.  
Well, if you want to be a leftleaning social 
activist, you don't need to give up your Sunday.  
And those churches kind of drifted away and lost 
a lot of their rais on detra and they know it  
and now they're working hard to try to fix that. 
Then comes what happens to the evangelical church,  
the white evangelical church in this 
century predominantly and that's what  
I call the sharp church. This is a different form 
of secularization. And it's not the thinning out  
of the church where you lose the boundaries 
of church and the broader culture. Instead,  
it's where you narrow down the church and you 
begin to say, "In order to be a Christian,  
you need to have a certain view of politics. You 
need to have a specific view of homosexuality and  
abortion and even national defense." And then it 
becomes you need to support a specific political  
party and that party is Republican. that begins in 
the 1980s with Reverend Jerry Fwell and Reverend  
Pat Robertson and Reverend LS Sheldon, but it 
really turbocharges in the last 10 years where you  
see a what amounts to, as Ryan Burge, our leading 
religious demographer, has said, a functional  
merger of the Republican party and white 
evangelicalism. And that sharpens the part the  
um Christianity that wing in a couple ways. One, 
it sharpens the message. It makes it partisan.  
It makes it divisive, says you can't be here if 
you're not with us on these political issues,  
very contrary to the universalistic message of 
Jesus. But it also literally sharpens the church  
in the sense it makes the church smaller because a 
lot of people don't want to be there for that. So  
you see the same kind of collapse in numbers of 
white evangelical organized churches that you'd  
previously seen in the mainline churches. They 
have the same collapse and that leads to this  
rise of the nuns, the nes who are unchurched 
and they're looking to partisan politics for  
their values. So you neither it turns out the thin 
church nor the sharp church is really doing the  
job that the founders hoped Christianity could 
do and that's the job of what I call the thick  
church. That's a form of Christianity which is 
thick in the sense of creating strong bonds of  
community, asking people of their followers, 
not just being a consumer choice, doing more  
than that, creating that community, that sense 
of transcendence, of group worship, of of meaning  
in life, of scriptural teachings that have actual 
commandments, and also thick in the sense of being  
in harmony to a large extent with our liberal 
democracy of saying we are going to be a distinct  
cultural entity but we're going to understand 
that our country is stronger when the values of  
Jesus and the values of Madison are in alignment 
and you can do both of these things that's what  
I mean by a thick church both countercultural and 
functional and supportive of a pluralistic society  
with people who are different from itself So, 
how do you do those two things? Like they sound  
maybe contradictory. How do you be a culturally 
distinctive thick Christianity that's not like the  
rest of the culture in the country and yet also 
supportive of democracy in which people are going  
to be different from you. A lot of people will be 
atheists or non-Christian or whatever and they'll  
have very different views. How do you do both of 
those things? It turns out there's a good answer  
to that and that answer is captured in a two-word 
phrase I didn't know before I started doing this  
work. It's called civic theology. Let me just say 
what what that is and why I think it's such an  
important connecting bond between Christian world 
and liberal world. The church has been pretty good  
um to this day at doing what it calls discipling 
people in their personal lives. Discipling people,  
also known as spiritual formation means helping 
people to become more Christlike in their lives,  
forming them in the image of Christ. And it is 
still true, wonderfully true, that when the city  
of Asheville is underwater from a flood, the 
churches are the first on the scene with aid  
and comfort. And it is still true that a lot of 
churches are doing great work in their communities  
and for the hungry and serving food every 
Thursday and taking in the needy. And in their  
own immediate worlds, members of churches are 
often very Christlike to each other. Not always.  
you see some horrible behavior. But then there's 
this other question, and this is where American  
Christianity, especially white evangelicalism, has 
really fallen down on that job. How would Christ  
want Christians to behave in politics and on 
social media? there in the the famous words of the  
Christian writer David French. I'm going to use a 
bit of language here, but he puts it awfully well.  
If you're saying, "I may be a bit of an [ __ ] on 
social media, but you should see me in the soup  
kitchen." That's not being Christlike. You can't 
make a division between being Christian in your  
immediate personal life and then going on social 
media and ripping people's guts out, calling them  
names, or behaving in ways that are going to tear 
apart our country. Thinking the worst of others,  
being unforgiving. Viewing politics as a forum for 
domination. viewing your own church as a vehicle  
for moving forward toward a culture war politics 
in which one side has to dominate the other. So  
there's been this artificial barrier between 
personal civic uh spiritual formation and civic  
spiritual formation. And a lot of Christians now 
have realized that something's gone very wrong  
here. The church has failed in its mission 
of having a civic theology that answers this  
question for Christians. How can we be Christlike 
on social media? That doesn't mean you give up  
your positions on whatever the social issue is. 
Abortion, homosexuality, poverty programs, war. It  
doesn't mean that you change your outlook in what 
you believe, but it may mean you change your view  
of how you behave in the civic realm. Can you be 
kinder and more forgiving of others? Can you work  
to listen more to their point of view? Can you 
take a Madisonian spirit of negotiation rather  
than a fascistic spirit of domination? There are 
major elements of Christianity that are working on  
doing that. There are places like the center for 
Christianity and public life that are now working  
on these questions of merging the doctrines of 
Christian Christianity with civic life. The most  
interesting of all of these I think is what's 
happening right now in the church of Jesus Christ  
of Latter-day Saints. Now, there's a whole side 
debate evangelicals may want to have about whether  
they're Christian or not, but they worship Jesus 
Christ. They accept the Bible and they advance  
those three doctrines that we've been talking 
about. But they have actually built a full-fledged  
civic theology which says that what Christ wants 
followers of Jesus to witness to in public life is  
a spirit of what they call patience, negotiation, 
and mutual accommodation. Doesn't mean you give  
up your basic view, but patience, negotiation, 
and mutual accommodation. They call this their  
peacemaking initiative and by that they mean civic 
peace and they think this is part of their mission  
as Christians to try to tamp down the issues 
in public policy where that's possible and  
create more room to live together. And they've not 
only talk the talk, they've walked the walk. They  
actually supported a piece of landmark compromise 
legislation in 2022 which federally recognized my  
same-sex marriage which is against their church 
doctrine while also enshrining in the very same  
law protections for their church to not have to 
recognize that marriage. And that's exactly what  
the founders wanted. That's a thick church. 
You have a strong church within its borders,  
what it believes, yet it's also willing to come 
to terms with and support a stronger civil society  
outside the church. That's a thick church. I 
can't really think of anything more important  
than rebooting and strengthening an alliance 
between Christianity and secular democracy.  
everything else will be so much easier if these 
things are supportive of each other than if  
they're pulling in opposite directions. And my 
plea to Christians, you know, I say this all the  
time. I'm an outsider and I'm not telling anyone 
who doesn't want to be a Christian or doesn't  
believe in Christianity to become one for the good 
of the country. Far from it. You know, I'm I'm not  
a Christian. I'm not going to become one. But the 
message to Christians is that the elements that  
our country needs to be a stronger democracy and 
frankly a more civil society are right there in  
the gospels. If Christianity were to elevate those 
core principles of Jesus that I've spoken of,  
don't be afraid, imitate Jesus, and forgive 
each other. and make a point of engaging with  
the rest of the country and especially with the 
Christian world of promulgating a civic theology  
that emphasizes those elements brought over into 
our public sphere. It's going to be good for  
democracy and just as important maybe it's going 
to be good for Christianity. When Christianity  
becomes politicized and sharp and harsh and 
partisan and when it looks like everything else  
going on in social media, no wonder that's 
not something people are interested in. So  
what I'm my message to Christians is there's a 
powerful convergence of needs here and that what  
our country needs is right there in the book. 
And then the complimentary message to that is  
um you know it comes from my own journey as a 
secular liberal as a non-believer as an atheist  
as a gay person who had very bitter experiences 
of Christianity growing up when I saw it at its  
worst. I think too many of us threw out the baby 
with the bathwater. I think we forgot that we need  
sources outside our framing documents that uphold 
these these core virtues um that the founders  
called republican virtues and that we have a stake 
in healthy Christianity. Christianity turns out  
to be a loadbearing wall in our democracy and 
we need it to be stronger as much as they do.
Four times a year, we print a magazine worth 
putting your phone down for. Big Think's  
premium print magazine is built with custom 
artwork and expert insight from the world's  
biggest thinkers. No AI slap, no ragebait, 
just big ideas for curious people. Support  
the media you want to see in the world. Go to 
bigthink.com/join to become a member today.