中美之間的關稅大戰目前看起來是戰告一段落了但另一場我們看不到的戰爭也許才剛剛開始說到中美競爭當大家都把目光聚焦在芯片、人工智能、太空和火箭的時候也許這一片看起來極其荒涼的沙地 才是中美竞争的终极战场这些看起来像沙土的东西其实是世界上最强大的金属小颗粒被称为稀土元素或简称稀土稀土已经成为了现代社会不可或缺的原材料稀土存在于你的手机音响硬盘电脑电视机电动车里的电池风力发电机等等等 But the reason why the soil is the most important strategic material in the country is because almost all the most advanced modern weapons need it. The US military has more than 3,400 weapons systems with soil materials. For example, the Royal National F-35 fighter in the US weapons each has 417 kg of soil. Besides F-35, each Alibor-class destroyer requires 2359 kg of West-East map, and the Fujian nuclear submarine requires 4173 kg of West-East map. Other systems, such as anti-tank missiles, anti-tank cruise missiles, radar, night vision, and radio equipment, etc. all require West-East map to make America the world's best military system. But the world's soil production is almost all monopolized by one country. That is China. China not only has the world's most soil reserves, the current world's soil production is 85% to 90% produced by China. China's monopoly in the world's So for the United States When your entire national defense system Are so heavily dependent on your biggest competitor Now it can even be said that it has become your enemy country Then this problem is very serious This topic is very sensitive So that the politicians of the two countries of China and the United States rarely discuss it in public The result is that many people are very committed to this topic about the future world situation So today I will take you to know more about this The Sino-US game is very hidden But it is likely to be the most important battle in the next few years In this video, I will answer the most important question Is it possible for the US and other Western allies to catch up with China's soil production in the next few years and get rid of the situation of being caught by China on this key raw material? To answer this question, we have to fully understand the history of the soil war How did China become the master of the global soil industry? It is a pity that the country which is the first country to develop and operate the land on Earth, the United States. In 1949, the American geologist discovered the soil elements 1-hour-long deep in the desert of the Mojave. 但當時他們只被視為地質學上的一種奇特現象一直到上世紀60年代美國人發現稀土當中有一種叫油的元素可以讓電視畫面中的紅色更加鮮豔稀土產業就由此誕生了 CBS presents this program in color. 稀土究竟是什么呢?其实稀土不是一样东西稀土是指17种不同的稀土元素它们排列在元素周期表的最末端原子序号从57号到71号名字大多来自希腊语非常难以发音比如Lanthanum, Neodymium, Presodium等等 Some elements have a luminous characteristic For example, "Te" can enhance the light signal in the light cable "Ga" has magnetic It is widely used in nuclear magnetic resonance and CT machine One of the most widely used CT elements is called "Nu" It can be used to make strong magnetic fields Every electric car needs 1-2 kg of Nu to make electric motors And the vibration function of our mobile phone is also the effect of magnetic fields I want to talk about a misunderstanding The name "wet soil" is a bit misleading Wet soil is not rare The amount of wet soil in the world is actually more abundant than white silver Everywhere There is also wet soil in the soil in the backyard of your house But most of the soil in the soil is not thick enough There are only a few places in the world where the soil is thick enough to be harvested 雖然說中國擁有世界最豐富的稀土資源但世界的蘊藏量其實遠遠大於需求比如說2024年全球稀土產量為39萬噸而目前世界已經被發現的稀土蘊藏量大約為1.2億噸還可以用300多年而且科學家們也合理的預計世界還有非常多尚未被發現的稀土資源 If so, why China became the world's almost only land-seeking country? The United States itself also owns about 1.9 million tons of land-seeking resources And they started to open up in the early 1960s Practice and apply land-seeking At that time, China was still engaged in cultural revolution How did it suddenly achieve the "turning over the wheel"? The answer is right here [Music] What you see now is a soil-based factory located in Baotou City, Inner Mongolia These black mud is the toxic waste produced during the cultivation of soil [Music] The waste water produced during the system production It will eventually sink into the groundwater, which means that some places need to be used to drink groundwater. If the groundwater is not used, it will cause harm to the human body. It will cause, for example, very thin waste water, which will cause the bone structure to be fragile. It is easy for people to break bones. and all the waste. There is radioactive soil in the waste. The soil will also enter the ground along with the water and gradually spread to the far away places. Or when it is dry, it will spread along with sand and dust in cities or villages. It will also cause radioactive pollution. 所以問題就是,吸土雖然並不稀有,開採也不難但是把吸土元素從石頭和泥土中提煉出來的過程會產生大量的有毒酸性液體更糟糕的是,還會產生大量的放射性污水 According to a report released by Harvard University in 2021, 1 ton of soil per production will produce 75,000 liters of waste water, 12 million tons of harmful gas, and 1 ton of radioactive waste. In general, 1 ton of soil per production will produce 2,000 tons of toxic waste. Therefore, in the United States, which has high safety and environmental requirements, it is extremely difficult to develop a factory that trains soil. From 1960 to 1980, the Molle Corp. Soil Factory located in Mountain Pass, California, has always been the world's leading soil supplier. But in 1998, because the leak of wastewater pipes caused the release of radioactive wastewater, it was forced to close for nearly 20 years. At that time, China was already working hard to promote the production and production of XITU In the situation of growth, China soon surpassed the United States and monopolized the global market To be honest, China did realize earlier than everyone else that XITU's huge future application potential At that time, all Western countries were not so important 根據前美國總統老布什的助理麥克格羅提的表述1992年鄧小平就在一次不太引人注意的演講中明確指出中國要壟斷稀土市場鄧小平當時說了一句中東有石油,中國有稀土但當時世界其他國家的人都一頭霧水,並沒有當一回事 所以现在回看历史其实对于美国人来说是相当讽刺的当美国工程师们忙着开发笔记本电脑小型手机和各种现代高科技产品的时候中国人则默默掌控了生产这些产品的关键原材料 For example, a technique that relies on the soil is called "Eternity magnet" or "Eternity magnet" Once the magnet is magnetized, it can remain magnetic forever and produce strong magnetic force as long as a small amount This is why all our electronic devices have become smaller and smaller over the past 20 years This technology was invented by Americans But they didn't pay attention to it So they were bought by China In 1995, China bought the largest American tin-fired company in Indiana Magnaquench China not only acquired patents and equipment But also invited American employees to train local workers in China 而现在,泳资技术已经被大量运用到现代武器和国防系统当中所以在稀土的这一步棋上,美国人确实是下错了邓小平下对了当然,邓小平对稀土潜在应用的预判固然重要但中国之所以能够在短时间内垄断全球稀土产能还需要同时具备另一个条件那就是低人权优势 十幾二十年前,中國在開採和提煉稀土的過程中,幾乎沒有任何的環保限制,對於採礦工人也幾乎沒有任何的安全保護措施。這是中國能夠用極低的成本快速發展稀土產業的根本原因。 For example, the most famous Chinese soil-based mine is the Baiyun Erbo mine in the Inner Mongolia. This is not only the largest soil-based mine in the world, but also contains 70,000 tons of radioactive material, soil. All the soil that is collected here will produce a lot of radioactive waste. So what worries me most now is the huge mine pool used to store toxic waste and radioactive waste water. This mine has a lack of effective anti-intake treatment Causing radioactive material to continue to penetrate into the groundwater 19 years ago, the Yangzi News reported That these radioactive sewage is penetrating at a speed of 300 meters per year To the Yellow River 10 kilometers away 大家都知道啊當年的媒體還能講幾句實話但後面所有的相關報導都已經被刪除現在放射性污水大概率已經滲透了黃河黃河可是中國第二大飲用水和灌溉水的水源啊 除了環境問題,在礦區作業的一線工人也缺乏基本的安全防護工人們長期暴露在有毒環境中,普遍出現皮膚潰爛、呼吸系統疾病、神經系統紊亂、心血管功能衰竭等嚴重健康問題 In the past few years, during the high-speed development of China, there have been many so-called cancer villages in the country. Due to the severe environmental pollution caused by the soil and other minerals in the process of development, the cancer rate of these villages near the mine is far higher than the average level of the country. In 2013, Wang Hao, the head of the Chinese Institute of Engineering and the Chinese Institute of Water Resources, has already admitted for the first time that China has more than 200 i-virus infected villages. But according to experts' predictions, if it is not based on the official numbers, then China's i-virus infected villages are expected to have more than 450. In these villages, cancer has become the most common cause of death Even a family of several people continuously suffer from cancer It is hard to believe in the young Farmers soaked in polluted air and water Breathing air with sulfuric taste Drinking water polluted by radioactive substances The crops planted are also full of toxins Death seems to be a domestic crime 這些年來被過度勞動和剝削的礦工耕地被污染的農民和井水變酸的普通居民也在多地嘗試抗議維權但全部都遭到打壓、逮捕或者消失 So the reality is that when you can completely ignore the environmental protection, the rights of the miners and the lives of the surrounding residents, China's cost of producing soil is far lower than that of Western countries. So when China's soil starts to enter the international market, the price is so low that the American and other countries' soil production plants can't even compete with the value. So they all closed down. Gradually, China began to monopolize the global market. China is currently in the global soil production chain The monopoly is comprehensive From the amount of harvest to production In the already discovered soil mines China's soil harvest is 44 million tons Not only the world's number one And more than 21 million tons of second-place Brazil One time more The third to sixth place is India with 690 million tons Australia with 570 million tons Russia with 380 million tons Vietnam with 350 million tons The U.S. is ranked 7th China has less than 5% of the 1.9 million tons of cargo But at this stage, the amount of storage is not the most important Because the global demand is less than 400,000 tons And there are many new soil mines that have not been discovered So the main problem is still in the development and development And the real power of China's soil is here In 2024, 69% of the global soil is produced by China 90% of the global soil is produced by China You may be a little confused here. Why are the production and production numbers different? And why is China's production volume greater than the production volume? Production means digging out the sand containing the soil elements. Production is to separate or store the soil elements from the sand. It is relatively easy to open up, just digging and transporting. The real challenge is in production. China has 69% of global production and 90% of global production Other countries have to send to China to let China cultivate the soil Because so far, only China has such a large-scale and complete industry chain for cultivating and producing soil In 2024, China produced about 390,000 tons of soil China has 270,000 tons of soil The United States is the second place But only 4.5 million tons Only 11.5% From 2020 to 2023 70% of the American imported soil is from China 13% is from Malaysia 6% is from Japan It is still heavily dependent on China's imports You must feel strange when you hear this How can the US make such an important raw material Especially the materials that are highly needed in the national defense system become so dependent on a country that is completely opposite to them in ideology? But in fact, the amount of monopoly in China has decreased in recent years Because the West has realized the seriousness of the problem After about 15 years of deployment Now it's finally starting to reduce the dependence on Chinese soil The Western camp led by the United States and Japan The beginning of the realization of the monopoly of Chinese soil is an unthinkable problem It was actually an unexpected event 15 years ago (Siren sound) The scene you are seeing now happened in 2010 In the ocean near the fishing island A Chinese fishing boat was provoking and constantly crashing into a Japanese sea security ship Eventually, the Japanese Navy arrested the captain of the Chinese fishing boat. Two weeks later, China suddenly launched a countermeasure that surprised everyone. They stopped exporting the Japanese soil. This action caused the Japanese manufacturing industry to be in panic. Because Japan is a manufacturing country of electronic products, modern electronic devices cannot leave the soil. In 2010, China's land monopoly position was much stronger than it is now. It accounts for almost 100% of the global supply of land. After the fishing island incident, China suddenly reduced the export volume of 72% of the land. The price of land increased. Some elements were five times more expensive in a few months. This panic lasted for more than half a year Later, China gradually restored supply The public gradually forgot about this But in fact, this incident struck the West and Japan They deeply realized that Must start developing the X-ray industry chain Gradually get rid of the dependence on China 隨後 澳大利亞政府通過了一系列的法案並提供政府補貼給礦業公司協助他們加快稀土產能2017年 美國加州Mountain Pass被關停了將近20年的稀土礦也開始恢復生產澳大利亞原本是完全不開採稀土的但是自從釣魚島事件 中國以斷供稀土威脅日本之後澳大利亞的稀土產能從2010年的0噸到2017年開始 每年可以生產2萬噸左右 美國也是同樣的從完全不生產到去年已經可以年生產4.5萬噸的稀土並且逐年在增加當中此外美國和澳大利亞的礦產公司也並不只是在本國內生產由於本國嚴格的環保和極高的員工成本他們也開始在東南亞國家比如馬來西亞泰國和緬甸佈局 這張圖可以讓我們非常直觀的看到世界稀土產能過去30年來的變化紅色代表中國所佔有的市場份額我們可以看到從2003年到2011、2012年左右中國幾乎是佔據了全球100%的稀土產能的但在2012年之後別的國家就開始出現產能並逐年蠶食中國的市場份額 Light blue represents the market share of the US Yellow represents Myanmar We can see that there is a good growth since 2017 Dark blue represents Australia When I look back at history I think in Xi Jinping's eyes He must have thought that when Hu Jintao This flag that limited the export of Japanese land It's too early It's like revealing China's killer sister too early For Xi Jinping, if China's monopoly on West China is still the same as in 2010 100% market share Then in the Sino-US trade negotiations And in the plan of "Five-Tong Taiwan" He is more confident In comparison, the dispute between Japan and 2010 can only be considered a small matter At that time, the method of West China's cut-off work was exposed It is equivalent to giving the US and the West time to wake up and prepare But I think this is normal Because before Xi Jinping I think the leaders of the CCP never seriously considered uniting Taiwan So the dispute over the fishing island is a big deal But the US and the West have been preparing for more than ten years China's position on the X-ray industry chain I can only say that The market share is a bit less, but it is still in the absolute leading position Especially in the field of training and production 2024 still occupies 85% to 90% of the global market share As the Sino-US relationship accelerates, the global isolation and protectionism raised by Trump Can the US and the West completely get rid of their dependence on China in the next few years? The answer may make people who hate the CCP regime disappointed Because according to the predictions of American soil experts and industry people Even under the government's full support The United States and Australia still need at least 5 to 10 years To be able to be self-sufficient in the soil This is still the most optimistic situation It may actually take longer Especially the seven major The reason why the Sino-US negotiations were able to reach an agreement so quickly I think it has absolutely to do with the US being stuck on the West Bank Now there are many Americans and Trump supporters Hope will be in Ukraine They said that Trump signed a mining agreement with Ukraine As a condition for the United States to continue to support Ukraine Just because they were right about Ukraine's West Bank But in fact, this is completely wrong information All the geological reports in the world, including the US own, have not found that there are many elements of soil in the land of Ukraine. I believe that Trump was misled by the people around him. In the mid-2024 general meeting, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham explained on CBS TV why the US should continue to help Ukraine against Russia. 他們在烏克蘭的10-12億美元的重要物資中今年初他在被採訪的時候又說但你知道烏克蘭是歐洲最富有的地區嗎?烏克蘭的2-7億美元 10-12 trillion dollars 10-12 trillion dollars suddenly became 2-7 trillion dollars This is not a small difference So this person is actually running a train with a full mouth In fact, Ukraine's West Bank is not only 12 trillion Not even 1.2 trillion Why? Because there is not much soil in the world. The amount of soil that has been discovered in the world is less than 100 million tons. According to the current average market price, the price is about $120,000 per ton. The total value of the soil that has not been developed in the world is only $120 billion. Can Ukraine's small amount of soil be more than the total amount of soil in the world? 而且就算真有那麼多稀土你也賣不了那麼多目前全球每年對稀土的需求量連50億美元都不到10萬億相當於全球稀土總需求未來2000年的總和所以這位參議員根本就是在胡說八道 As I said, all the geological reports in the world say that Ukraine has no And these facilities are now available in the United States and Australia So it is completely unrealistic and unreasonable to expect a West-East border with Ukraine So now you understand Why did I predict that the Sino-US trade war would not last long? Because to be honest, it is extremely difficult for the United States to reach a complete decoupling with China in a short period of time 你有卡他脖子的地方他也有卡你脖子的地方雙方只能是在不情願的情況下保持來往各取所需我知道啊今天我說的這些大家可能不愛聽我的頻道觀眾當中有很多都是不喜歡中共的都在希望中共垮台中國能夠改朝換代成為一個民主國家我完全理解因為我也是這麼希望的 But we can't bury our heads as ostriches because we don't like the CCP We can't see a blogger who cries every day "Oh, the CCP is going to collapse tomorrow" and immediately put a big hat on people In fact, the more you don't like the CCP, the more you should recognize its power If you don't even know the real strength of the enemy Then you are just self-hypnosis 中共有它的弱點中國經濟有很多問題這幾年也正在逐漸暴露出來但稀土確確實實是現在他們手上的一張王牌只有知道對方手上有什麼牌你才能制定出相應的策略來當鴕鳥是解決不了問題的 那麼現在我們來探討一下在戶卡脖子上美國手上的王牌是芯片中國手上的王牌是稀土那麼誰的牌更大呢當然其實美國手上的牌除了芯片以外還有很多比如尖端的藥品重要的工程軟件甚至是糧食的種子等等但我們就單比較芯片和稀土誰更佔據優勢呢 其實在我看來,吸土的問題比芯片問題容易解決得多因為芯片不是你砸錢下去就能解決的問題尖端芯片的製造涉及極其複雜且環環相扣的體系從材料科學、精密製造、設計架構到光刻機、EDA軟件再到幾十年積累的工藝優化每一環都需要頂尖的人才以及一代又一代工程師的經驗沉澱 On the contrary, the development and training of soil is not very advanced Of course, China has gained a lot of patent technology in the field of soil training But these are not very simple technologies Not difficult The obstacles in the production of soil in the United States are mainly environmental, nuclear and high artificial cost But these are not technical issues 也就是说在极端的情况下就说中美如果真的全面脱钩甚至两国开战了那么在这个时候环保和成本就变成次要问题了在战争状态政府当然会不惜一切砸钱和放开所有管制先把核心物资弄出来再说 但在同样的情况下现代芯片科技更像是一件艺术品不是你不惜成本和代价就能够快速搞出来的所以总的来说在中美互掐脖子的竞争当中美国还是更占优势的 視頻的最後還是像往常一樣的說一些我的感想在為這個視頻做調研的過程中最觸動我的不是國際爭端也不是中美博弈而是那些在稀土開採和提煉過程中被犧牲掉的中國普通人可以說中國在通往全球稀土霸主的路上是踩著無數老百姓的屍骨攀登上去的 中國人一提起福島何處離水就聞風喪膽卻不知道自己的政府已經悄悄的把放射性污水排入黃河數十年中國的癌症村其實就是國家戰略以及民族大義的墓碑 我知道有很多人會說你不懂這是大國崛起的代價為了打敗美國為了民族復興這些犧牲是值得的當然前提是這些稀土礦不是開在他家附近前提是污染的水源不是他村子裡的井水 请问这些癌症村里的人他们享受到了稀土带来的红利了吗当你在为中国制造的战斗机击落印度飞机而感到自豪时你的食品安全了吗有一天当中国真的通过武力把台湾收复了以后你的房贷压力能因此减轻吗你去机关办事能不脱关系吗你能确保你医生的学历是货真价实的吗 Will your life really be changed by the unification of the motherland without any change? This is what I have been dreaming of for this part of Chinese people. If the rise of a great country is replaced by the radioactive elements in your drinking water, if the revival of the nation is made up of the cancerous corpses in villages one by one, 与你何干