Most people instinctively think that there 
is some kind of meaning to life. They just  
sort of assume that it's there in the same way 
that if you ask them, "Why are you getting out  
of bed to go to work? Why are you doing that to 
make money? Why to provide for my family? Why to  
bring up my children healthily? Why because I want 
my children to be healthy? Why? What do you mean  
why?" For some people, they just don't recognize 
the question. They're just like, "What are you  
talking about?" For other people, they hear that 
and they go, "Gosh, you know what? Fair enough,  
I actually don't know." The nihilist is 
someone who sort of takes a bird's eye  
view of it and realizes that it's all a little 
bit meaningless. It is nicer to think that you  
are here for some kind of reason that's written 
into the rules of the universe than that it all  
is just a happy or unhappy accident. My name 
is Alex O'Connor. I'm the host of the Within  
Reason podcast. I think I'm best described as 
a philosophy YouTuber and former edgy atheist.  
Meaning, I think, is used synonymously with 
purpose. And purpose is something like reason  
to act or reason to be. Whenever anybody acts in 
any way, when I pick up a glass of water to have  
a drink, when I walk to a bus stop or something, 
there will be a reason why I've done that. These  
kinds of behaviors don't just spring up ex nihilo. 
They exist for some kind of reason. And so if you  
ask me why it is that I'm reaching my arm over 
there, it might be because I'm trying to pick up a  
glass of water. Why am I doing that? I don't just 
do that randomly. Well, because I'm thirsty. Okay,  
well, why am I thirsty? Well, now we're kind 
of into some biological science. You might say,  
"Well, it's been a while since I've last had 
a drink." And then you might describe what it  
is about my biology that causes thirst and you 
might even give an evolutionary explanation for  
why it is that we've developed this sensitivity 
to thirst. And eventually this kind of has to  
bottom out somewhere. It will either have 
to bottom out in some evolutionary reason  
or this contingent chain of reasoning just 
essentially goes back forever or it terminates  
in something which is self-justifying. For the 
religious, it will be God. Everything they do,  
even if they don't cognize it all the 
time, will be for the glory of God.  
And if you're a secular person, it will likely be 
something else. For some people, their meaning in  
life might be the raising of their children. And 
for most people, it probably is relational. And  
when people say that they found their meaning 
in life, I think a lot of the time they found  
that self-justifying principle. The thing that 
the nihilist recognizes is that the values he or  
she holds are not grounded in anything other than 
their own preferences or aesthetic preferences.  
Nihilism comes in many forms and depending on the 
context can mean many different things. But most  
broadly, it's the lack of belief in or belief 
that there is no such thing as an objective  
purpose to life or to the actions that we commit 
and the behaviors that we portray within life. A  
lot of people think that if you lived like 
a nihilist, you'd sort of rot away in bed.  
Some nihilists may do that and I think there 
is actually a correlation, a strong correlation  
between philosophical nihilism and practical 
depression. However, nihilism is not about the  
actual consequences or the things that you're 
doing, it's about the purpose behind them,  
it's about the meaning behind them. And so, 
suppose that you're feeling thirsty. I could  
explain to you that the only reason you're 
feeling thirst is because of some animalistic  
drive that you had no control over. But you're 
still thirsty. You still have that desire. You  
still have that value of quenching your thirst 
and so you'll still do that. And the same applies  
in all areas of life, art and music and poetry, 
but also including relationships, friendships,  
that kind of stuff. You're still going to want 
to do those things. It's like Camus famously  
described in the myth of Sisyphus, this person who 
suddenly recognizes the structure of their day,  
waking up, having breakfast, getting in the car, 
going to work, taking a break, work, going back  
home, eating some food, going to sleep, starting 
again. And you sort of start to notice that you're  
doing this. And it's not anything about what 
you're doing, it's realizing, taking a step  
back and realizing that there's no meaning to any 
of this. There's no... That there's nothing more  
than just my doing it. It doesn't go any deeper 
than that. One of the still greatest expositions  
of nihilism that can be found in the printed word 
is the book of Ecclesiastes in the Old Testament.  
Ecclesiastes takes us through the reflections of 
this man, this anonymous author. Some have tried  
to identify him, but it doesn't really matter 
who it is. We know that he was a great man,  
a king. He lived an illustrious life, but he saw 
no meaning in it. And he keeps coming back to this  
word "hevil," which means literally something 
like "wind." And so it's translated as "vanity"  
by the King James. Vanity of vanities. Everything 
is vanity. Meaningless. Meaningless. Everything is  
meaningless is one translation. Absurd, absurd. 
Everything is absurd is my favorite. He's like,  
"I denied my eyes no pleasure that they saw. 
If I wanted something, I took it. I drank wine,  
I partied, I lived life. But in the end, I saw 
that it was all "hevil." It was all just wind.  
It's just... Nothing. It just happens. And then 
it's gone. And it doesn't mean anything. But the  
most interesting thing is that it seems to suggest 
that everything that this guy was saying was true,  
that it is all just wind, but that somehow, by 
just fearing God and keeping His commandments,  
you have somehow solved the problem. I don't think 
that that's a very satisfying solution. But then I  
think that that is the great theme of nihilistic 
literature. People try for a kind of solution,  
but ultimately, for me, at least, they seem 
relatively unsatisfying. Fast forward thousands of  
years and you get Albert Camus' Myth of Sisyphus, 
which famously ends with this idea of imagining  
Sisyphus happy. In fact, Camus was celebrated for 
the starkness of the opening line of the myth of  
Sisyphus, that there is one serious philosophical 
question, and that is suicide. Because everything  
else, you know, how many dimensions there are to 
space, whether abstract numbers exist, all of that  
is secondary. The most foundational question is 
whether or not you're going to, as he once put it,  
have a cup of coffee or kill yourself today. 
You look at the seeming arbitrariness of the  
world around us, the way that the environment 
and the organisms within it seem to just sort  
of almost randomly evolve according to literal 
just battles for survival. I think people want  
something a little bit more than that. They want 
something which feels worthwhile, that's somehow  
sort of justified by some universal principle. 
There's almost like a moral element, that it's  
a good thing to be alive, that it's a good thing 
to live a meaningful life. And that kind of thing,  
I think, is very difficult to ground objectively. 
In fact, if somebody ever asks me how I might  
console myself in the face of these existential 
woes, genuinely, at least personally, it is in  
agnosticism. It's in the fact that I do not know 
the first thing about why any of this exists. Of  
course I don't, you know? And sometimes people 
ask me in a context on a podcast or on a stage  
or something, implicitly as if I'm going to have 
some answer, as if I've like worked it out and I'm  
going to be able to communicate that to people. 
And I'm interested in philosophy, so I might have  
read something that helps to elucidate a concept 
or I might be able to put a word on something that  
you've been thinking but didn't know was, you 
know, also thought by other people. But we're  
doing the same thing here and ultimately I have 
absolutely no idea what the ultimate answers are.  
And so that kind of consoles me. And I suppose 
I'm just not convicted of nihilism. (gentle music)