I'm an active physician. I see 
patients in the office. I see a lot of 
communication issues. I hear a lot 
from patients online about difficulties 
interacting with their health care 
provider or people who have fallen down 
rabbit holes with disinformation and 
gone down routes that may not have been 
helpful to them. And I realized some 
time ago that medicine had a big 
communication gap. And so I really view 
everything that I'm doing as trying to 
close that communication gap, trying to 
give people information about their body 
so they can be informed because you 
can't make an empowered, educated 
decision about your body if you don't 
have the right information on this 
subject. I want people to have the 
information so when they're in the 
office with a medical provider, they 
can advocate for good care so they know 
what's harmful, what's normal. And 
I also want people to have that 
information so when they encounter 
things they see online that they'll know 
what's factual and what's not. So I'm 
very interested in educating the public 
about science and medicine because 
there's huge gaps in communication. You 
can't be an empowered patient without 
accurate information. So, I view myself 
as someone trying to close those gaps by 
getting knowledge about your body out to 
people so they can advocate for 
themselves in the doctor's office and so 
when they see health information online, 
they can sort through what's factual and 
what is likely snake oil. Hi, my name is 
Dr. Jen Gunter. I'm a San Francisco Bay 
Area OBGYn and author and health 
communicator. And my latest book is 
Blood: The Science, Medicine, 
and Mythology of Menstruation. 
Thank you for watching Big Think. If 
you'd like to support our work, we 
encourage you to join our members 
community. As a member, you'll receive 
our quarterly print magazine, a 
beautifully designed collection of the 
ideas and interviews that matter most. 
Big Think is for curious people who want 
to take deep dives into big ideas. To 
support the media you want to see in the 
world, go to bigthink.com/membership. 
And now back to the interview. 
Chapter 1, the science of menstruation.
>> For many years, thousands of years,  
maybe longer, society has viewed 
menstruation as something that is toxic 
or dirty or potentially dangerous to men. 
Uh something that reflects a problem 
with the body. So the ancient Greeks 
believed that men were perfectly in 
balance fluid-wise and women were not 
and menstruation was evidence of that. They 
believed that every cell in our body was 
overly moist and so if you can't handle 
your fluid appropriately, you need 
basically an overflow valve and that was 
really what they thought menstruation was. 
So it was a physical sign of inferiority 
and that banner has long been carried by 
medicine, by many different societies 
and also by many religions. it's been 
weaponized against women um as a sign of 
inferiority when when really it's simply 
a biological function. We know very 
little about how women cared for their 
menstrual cycle for their periods 
because almost everything that has been 
written historically has been written by 
men. In fact, there are people who have 
gone through diaries from, you know, 
women in the 1700s, 1800s trying to 
understand, you know, what they might 
have done and they have information 
about how many pairs of underwear you 
might need or information about other 
things. But there's almost no 
information about how they cared for 
their menstruation which is probably a 
sign of how much of a taboo it is to talk 
about the subject which is related to 
the shaming of women and women's bodies 
and possibly also because maybe they 
thought everybody knew how to take care 
of it. So maybe it wasn't information 
that needed to be included in some 
things. But we do definitely have an 
information gap about how women have 
handled periods historically. So there 
are so many potential negative outcomes 
when people don't know about the 
menstrual cycle. We've often viewed 
these negative outcomes as a risk of 
unplanned pregnancy and not being able 
to to time pregnancy. And that's 
certainly one of the issues. However, 
it's also important to understand that 
when people don't know what's happening 
to their body, they don't know what's 
normal or what's abnormal, then they 
don't know when to seek care. They don't 
know if they should be asking for help 
or if what's happening is totally 
expected. There's also issues about not 
knowing what is the best care when you 
are suffering. So, if you don't really 
understand what's going on and you don't 
really understand the science, then the 
therapies might not make sense to you 
or snake oil that you meet online might 
sound like a good idea, but if you 
understood the biology, you'd be saying, 
"Wait, no, no, that's that's not 
something I should be paying attention 
to." So, it's really important that, 
you know, while knowledge about 
contraception is very important and that 
is one part of the menstrual cycle, not 
everybody has a need for contraception. 
Um and there are much broader 
discussions as well. So we need to have 
this information because people live 
their whole lives with this menstrual 
cycle and they need to understand the 
biology. I think historically education about the 
menstrual cycle has been dismal. uh 
I can't speak for every country but I 
think in a lot of places because the 
people that I encounter and I speak to 
lots of people who are from a lots 
of different places and they all have 
questions about the biology of the the 
reproductive tract some basic questions 
and speaking to people in the United 
States it seems that what they're taught 
varies from nothing to perhaps very 
little and uh and so people don't really 
learn practical information if they do 
learn some things. It's all framed in 
context of pregnancy and preventing 
pregnancy as opposed to about the 
menstrual cycle and what menstruation 
is and what it means uh for a person's 
body. So, it's a very narrow view that 
doesn't really provide them with a lot 
of useful information. Everybody 
should care about menstruation 
because if you're watching this, 
you're only here because somebody had a 
menstrual cycle. The menstrual cycle is 
the wheel that drives humanity. It was 
an essential part of human evolution. To 
get the big brains that we have required 
a menstrual cycle. So if you're using 
a computer, if you're driving a car, if 
you're reading a book, all that 
technology comes to you because of the 
menstrual cycle. If you're here on 
Earth, somebody had a menstrual cycle to 
bring you into this world, right? You 
might know someone with a menstrual 
cycle. You might love someone with a 
menstrual cycle. You might have children 
with a menstrual cycle and maybe knowing 
that information would be helpful so you 
can help care for your family members 
or friends or lovers when they're having 
problems. You know, we should know more 
about our biology. And for centuries, 
maybe for thousands of years, possibly 
longer, medicine has been medicine for 
men. And we need to step back from that, 
be far more inclusive. And a good way to 
start is to learn more about the 
menstrual cycle. Lots of people for 
years, again, thousands of years, have 
used euphemisms to talk about periods 
because obviously if it's a shameful 
topic, you can't use the word. So, one 
term that I've heard a lot, which 
I hate, is called the rag, which is 
related to people having to 
use rags as menstrual products. 
One that I love and I do love the idea 
of subversive euphemisms is there's 
communists in the fun house. And uh 
another euphemism that I really like is 
a party at the Red Roof Inn. But Shark 
Week is another one. And I do love the 
idea of a graphic euphemism that 
basically takes the idea that you think 
it's shameful and you don't want me to say 
I'm bleeding or I'm menstruating. Well, 
I'm going to say something that is way 
more graphic. So, it's Shark Week. So, 
the word menstruation comes from both a 
Latin and a Greek root, and it's for the 
word for monthlies or a monthly 
occurrence. And so, it reflects the idea 
that the menstrual cycle, the menstrual 
period was expected to come about once a 
month, like the moon. Now, that doesn't 
mean that your menstrual cycle is tied 
with the lunar cycle at all. It's 
related to a monthly occurrence. And so 
it has nothing to do with the word men. 
People always ask that. And everything 
to do with the word month or 
monthly occurrence. Many people have 
historically believed that the menstrual 
cycle was every 28 days. And that's 
something that we see in a lot of 
textbooks. And there really is no 
scientific proof for that. Uh that that 
is sort of an a idealized or the most 
common menstrual cycle. It might be 
an average at certainly some ages, but 
there can be a wide variation in 
the menstrual cycle depending on the 
different classification system that you 
that people use. So it could be anywhere 
from 24 to 38 days or from 21 to 35. And 
again, it just depends on sort of which 
system that you use. But understanding 
that there is no uh good scientific 
evidence or even historical proof that 
that most people have a 28 day cycle. 
There's actually quite a bit of 
variation even cycle to cycle which a 
lot of people don't know. So it could 
be very normal for you to have a 26 day 
cycle for one cycle and then the next 
one it' be 32 days. So within a 7-day 
swing in either direction is a normal 
sort of built-in variability. Relatively 
few mammals menstruate. So there's humans 
and some great apes. There are some 
bats. There is the spiny mouse and the 
elephant shrew. So it's kind of like 
this MLY crew of species. And what we 
think is that menstruation evolved four 
separate times. So once for us and the 
great apes and then three other times 
for the other animals that I mentioned. 
Every other mammal has an estrus cycle 
which is a little different. They don't 
shed the lining and we do. And so a 
menstrual cycle means that the lining of 
the uterus has undergone a change called 
decidualization. And for humans that happens after 
ovulation occurs and is due to the 
release of progesterone. Decidualization 
is a real physical change in the tissue. 
And if you want to think about the 
decidua as kind of like a catcher's mitt 
in the uterus, it's all prepared and 
ready for an embryo. If there's no 
decidualization, implantation can't 
occur. The decidua is so thick because 
humans have an incredibly invasive 
placenta. Wants to get a lot of oxygen 
to feed those big brains, right? So, an 
invasive placenta has to be handled or 
it could grow through the uterus and 
cause problems. So, humans have evolved 
especially thick decidua to deal with 
that. In addition, the decidua actually 
senses embryo fitness in some ways and 
is part of regulating which pregnancies 
actually take, if you will, and which 
are incredibly early miscarriages. 
So, what happens when you don't get 
pregnant in a cycle is that you have 
this big thick tissue that's got nowhere 
to go. It can't be reabsorbed by the 
body. So, the only way to get rid of it 
is to dump it. And so menstruation involves 
chemical changes that cleave the decidua 
from the uterus, opening up blood 
vessels that then push that fluid out 
with the decidua of the tissue and then 
the cycle can start a new. When you have 
an estrus cycle, you still need 
decidualization for a pregnancy. 
However, the trigger for decidualization 
comes from the embryo itself. So you 
don't have to have that catcher's mitt 
waiting there. Once the embryo contacts, 
then the changes happen that trigger 
decidualization, but if there's no 
embryo, there's no decidualization. So 
there's nothing that needs to come out 
and any little tissue that's there can 
easily be absorbed. And so that's kind 
of a summary of the difference between 
a menstrual cycle and estrus. So one 
analogy I often use to describe 
menstruation is pulling the sheets off the 
bed. So, you don't get pregnant, you're 
pulling the sheets off the bed, you got 
to remake the bed for company again. And 
I just want to preface this by the fact 
that we're not all meant to get 
pregnant. So, just to keep that in mind. 
This is just to describe the physiology 
and why it exists this way. So, just 
like to put that out there. If menstruation 
is pulling the sheets off, the menstrual 
cycle is already starting again while 
you're menstruating. So basically like 
ironing the sheets and getting them 
ready while you're pulling them off. So 
the beginning of the cycle starts 
actually with the first day of bleeding. 
And during that time, follicles in the 
ovary that have been on about a 300day 
journey are now ready to accept 
signaling from the brain to potentially 
ovulate. They're triggered by a hormone 
called follicle stimulating hormone um 
and then later by a hormone called 
luteinizing hormone. These hormones 
trigger the follicles to develop and 
fairly soon one becomes a dominant 
follicle. The follicles produce 
estradiol which is the most potent 
estrogen. And there's a communication 
signaling that's going between the 
estrogen that's produced by the 
follicles and the brain. And that 
estrogen is also going through the body 
and stimulating breast tissue, affecting 
the immune system and causing the 
lining of the uterus to grow. When the 
estradiol levels get to a certain point, 
that communication between the brain and 
the follicles triggers um a surge in 
luteinizing hormone. And what that does 
is trigger ovulation. So the follicle 
now releases an egg. And after that 
happens, the leftover tissue from 
the follicle organizes itself into a 
structure called the corpus luteum. And 
the corpus luteum produces progesterone. 
And it's the progesterone then that now 
takes over and takes these cells from 
the lining of the uterus that have been 
thickened from the estrogen and now 
converts them into decidua, tissue 
that can accept a potential embryo for 
implantation. And that is required for 
pregnancy to happen. The corpus luteum 
has a natural lifespan of you know 
10 14-ish days. And if there is no 
pregnancy that happens to send signaling 
back to the corpus luteum to say hey 
hang around for a little bit we're 
working on making a placenta. If that 
signaling doesn't happen then the corpus 
luteum stops producing progesterone and 
it is the withdrawal of progesterone 
that is the trigger for menstruation. So 
the role of progesterone is 
decidualization. It also has other 
impacts throughout the body as well 
getting ready for pregnancy. But what it 
does is it controls that decidualization 
that necessary change in the 
endometrium. So it can be receptive 
to implantation. And so without that 
progesterone implantation can't happen. 
With an estrus cycle that's not the 
signaling. The signaling comes from the 
embryo. So, one analogy that I often use 
is uh with humans, it's like uh the 
restaurant's making a dish. Whether or 
not you show up, it's going to be made. 
But with estrus, it's only making the 
dish if it's been ordered. So, meaning 
that there has to be an embryo that has 
presented itself. We often divide the 
menstrual cycle into two phases. The 
follicular phase and the luteal phase. 
The follicular phase describes what's 
happening in the ovaries with the 
changing in the follicles and that 
communication back and forth with the 
brain with stimulating of follicle 
stimulating hormone. The luteal phase 
happens with ovulation. So the surge of 
the luteinizing hormone and then the 
triggering of ovulation from ovulation 
onwards is the luteal phase. Now some 
people also divide menstruation up as a 
separate phase but that's part of the 
follicular phase and I think it's too 
clunky to start subdividing and 
subdividing and so the luteal phase is 
governed or thought of primarily that 
way because of the changes with the 
follicle switching to becoming the 
corpus luteum and now that's producing 
the hormone progesterone. So many people 
describe pain with ovulation and that's 
called mittelschmerz which you might 
be surprised to know is not named after 
a doctor middles. That was something 
that actually surprised me and we 
believe it's actually due to release 
of prostaglandins that actually trigger 
cramp-like pain. So that's what it's 
from. A lot of people envision the 
follicle like bursting out from the 
ovary, but that's not what happens. It's 
enzymes dissolving and less of a 
dramatic exit, if you will, from the 
ovary. Many people also have heard that 
you don't always ovulate from the same 
side or you go back and forth and maybe 
it's one month this side and one month 
the other side and it's a bit of a kind 
of a haphazard. So it's not a a one 
two one two like a tennis game. It's 
you know one month maybe this this ovary 
maybe two months in a row or two cycles 
in a row then the other side and it kind 
of goes back and forth. However, if 
you have one ovary removed, then the 
remaining ovary picks up the slack and 
it's doing the the bulk all of the work. 
And we don't really understand that 
signaling. And I think it's a really 
important thing that we don't understand 
a lot of the signaling behind the 
menstrual cycle and some of the unique 
aspects of of um ovulation and sort of 
the incredible journey that uh that an 
egg takes from uh from when it's dormant 
to when it can accept um the stimulation 
to potentially ovulate. So I'm often 
asked what happens if I'm on the birth 
control pill and I don't get a period. 
Is that harmful? Is there something 
building up? And what's going on then 
with all that decidua? So, when you're 
taking hormones every day in the 
menstrual cycle, you're getting exposed 
to a progesterone, which is like 
progesterone, every day of the cycle, 
not just for half the cycle. So, when 
you're exposed to it at the beginning, 
the lining never develops in the same 
way that it would if you weren't on that 
medication. So you don't get that thick 
lining developing and you don't have the 
withdrawal because you're not stopping 
the medication if you take it 
continuously every day. So that's why 
when people are on hormonal 
contraception like the birth control 
pill, their periods are often lighter 
because they didn't have as much lining 
developing. They always had that sort of 
opposition from the progesterone. If you 
think of broadly estrogen as 
stimulating the lining, progesterin or 
progesterone are kind of stabilizing and 
holding it in check. So if you have that 
holding in check hormone the whole 
cycle, it never gets really thick. And 
if you don't withdraw the progesterone, 
you don't take seven days or 4 days off 
each cycle, then the lining just is 
really very thin and there really isn't 
anything to come out and so it's not 
harmful. Another myth that I hear is 
that the menstrual cycle is a way to 
release toxins from the body. So, if 
you're on the birth control pill 
and you're not having that um cyclic 
release, then that might be problematic. 
Well, if we needed the menstrual cycle 
to get rid of toxins, then I have bad 
news for women in menopause and all of 
men, right? Some people wonder if 
there's toxins that come out with your 
menstrual cycle. And so, then would it 
be concerning if you're taking the pill 
every day and not having a cycle? And 
the answer is no. Humans don't actually 
have toxins and the menstrual cycle 
isn't a form of excretion. It doesn't 
remove things from our body in the same 
way that the liver and the kidneys do. 
It's very important when we're 
discussing the menstrual cycle to 
recognize that we need to be inclusive. 
While the majority of people who menstruate 
are cisgendered women, there are 
trans men and non-binary people who 
menstruate. And not everybody who's a 
woman has a menstrual cycle. So there are 
women who've had hysterectomies, women 
who've had their ovaries removed, women 
who are menopausal, and there are trans 
women. So it's really important for us 
to remember that and be inclusive. And 
that's why I usually just use the term 
people because I trust people to know if 
what I'm talking about applies to them 
or not. There's a big range in onset for 
the age of menstruation. And basically, if 
it hasn't happened by age 16, then it's 
time to have a discussion with your 
medical provider. And if it's happening 
before age 8 or nine, that's also a time 
to definitely discuss with a medical 
provider. The age of onset of your 
period has nothing to do with when 
it's going to stop. They're actually 
different biological phenomenon because 
some people always wonder, well, if I 
started early, am I going to stop 
early? And the answer to that is no. The 
average age for a menstruation stopping 
is around 51, but the normal or typical 
range is between 45 and 55. So, it's 
kind of a larger range for when we 
expect it to stop than than when we 
expect it to start. If you go through 
menopause, which is the end of menstruation 
between the ages of 40 and 44, we call 
that premature menopause. And if 
menstruation stops before age 40, we 
typically call that primary ovarian 
insufficiency and that needs to be 
investigated for a lot of different 
reasons. So menstrual pain is 
unfortunately a common experience for 
many people and it can range from, you 
know, being a minor symptom to something 
that is being really incredibly 
intrusive and painful and damaging for 
an individual. It can result in missed 
school, missed work. It can result in 
multiple surgeries. It can result in 
having all kinds of medical therapies 
and all of the expenses related to all 
of that. So the expenses of missed 
education, the expense of missed work, 
the expense of medical procedures. 
So all of these things weigh on an 
individual. We know it's a significant 
problem, but because this is 
Understudied, it's really hard to know 
the exact significance. Also many people 
just have to suck it up and go in 
because they don't have financial 
choices. So really understanding the 
true potential impact I think is is 
challenging for us but it's a 
significant problem. So there are a 
constellation of negative symptoms that 
can be associated with the menstrual 
cycle. Some are seen just around the 
time of menstruation or close to the time 
of menstruation and some are triggered 
around the time of ovulation or 
potentially triggered around the time 
of ovulation. Premenstrual syndrome is a 
constellation of symptoms that happen 
only in the luteal phase. So after 
ovulation and those can include breast 
tenderness, moodiness, a feeling of 
hopelessness or anhedonia that those 
types of symptoms. Uh they can also 
involve food cravings which are really 
very common. Then there are menstrual 
cramps which happen either the day 
before or starting with menstruation and 
those can vary in significance from 
being mild to being incredibly severe. 
People can also get menstrual diarrhea 
which again happens at the same time 
either right before or during the 
menstrual cycle. And of course there's 
also pain that can happen with ovulation 
which is mittelschmerz which we 
believe is actually more related to 
muscle spasm that's triggered by the 
chemicals that are released with 
ovulation. PMS is the broader term used 
to describe the constellation of 
symptoms that can happen to a lot of 
people. Premenstrual mood dysphoric 
disorder or PMDD is also something that 
can occur, but it's much less common. 
Some people think of it as a variant of 
PMS, which it probably is a more severe 
form, although truthfully, we don't know 
if they're different or part of the same 
spectrum, if you will. And so PMDD has 
more severe symptoms. It has a bigger 
impact or a significant impact on 
activities of daily living and tends to 
also have more depressive symptomatology 
associated with it. Let's talk 
about menstrual cramps. We call that 
dysmenorrhea. And primary dysmenorrhea 
is painful cramps not related to another 
medical condition versus secondary 
dysmenorrhea means cramps that we think 
are related to something else. The most 
common example for that would be the 
medical condition endometriosis. Why 
are cramps primary dysmenorrhea? Like 
what's up with that? Why do we have 
cramps? And they're a very common 
experience. 70 to 80% of people will 
have them and they really vary in 
intensity person to person. So we 
think that menstrual cramps exist as uh 
basically part of the mechanism to stop 
bleeding. So what happens with all the 
chemical soup that's released with 
ovulation? You have to release chemicals 
that cause the tissue, the decidua, 
to cleave off the uterus. Among those 
chemicals that are produced are 
substances called prostaglandins. 
So prostaglandins trigger pain. They 
also trigger the uterus to contract. And 
if you think about it, you have now all 
these open blood vessels because just 
like when you peel a scab off, you have 
open blood vessels that bleed. That's 
the same thing that happens when the 
decidua peels off. you now have all 
these open blood vessels that were thick 
and developing because they were getting 
ready to provide nutrients to an 
embryo, right? So now you have all this 
bleeding. So you have all this chemical 
soup to stop the bleeding. You have 
things that cause vasospasm, so to cause 
those blood vessels to contract down. 
The uterus cramps down, you know, in 
the same way that you put pressure on a 
wound to stop bleeding. The cramping 
itself is painful. The reduction in 
blood flow is painful. And some of the 
chemicals that are reduced can also 
affect pain thresholds. So you 
have muscle cramps, you have these 
prostaglandins floating everywhere, you 
have reduced blood flow. And so that's 
what produces cramps. And there really 
is a wide range of experience how people 
um experience them and how they respond 
to therapy as well. About 12% of people 
who menstruate will also have something 
called menstrual diarrhea, which is from 
the prostaglandins that are released. 
Prostaglandins cause diarrhea. So you're 
dumping a bunch of prostaglandins into 
the blood circulation and that can also 
trigger uh diarrhea with the bowels. We 
need prostaglandins because it's part of 
stopping, you know, it's part of 
triggering menstruation. It's part of 
triggering the release of the decidua 
and it's part of stopping the bleeding. 
So if we didn't have prostaglandins, 
menstruation would have to happen a 
different way or we'd need a different 
type of menstrual cycle. So they're a 
critical critical hormone. 
Prostaglandins are important in our body 
in all different kinds of ways. So 
it's not just a menstrual cycle related 
chemical. But uh but we do think as 
far as uh menstrual pain and menstrual 
diarrhea that they are the big troublemakers. 
So a lot of people have questions about 
well this doesn't seem like it's really 
a smart evolutionary design. if a lot of 
people have pain and 12% of people have 
diarrhea like this seems like a pretty 
troublesome thing and also if you add in 
that some people can have very heavy 
periods and they can get anemia so you 
know it's associated with problems so 
there's a couple of answers to that I 
mean obviously we don't know what 
menstrual cycles were like 10,000 years 
ago so so we don't know that but 
there is this romanticization 
or romantic thinking about nature that 
nature has everything perfect and that 
everything works perfectly And 
I think that nature's motto is 
probably best summed up as just good 
enough, right? So it's just good enough. 
You can all like you're half-dressed and 
slap you on the back and push you out 
the door. Just good enough. Go on. Go 
on out into the world. Because evolution 
doesn't care about an individual 
person's suffering. It cares is this 
design going to work enough to 
perpetuate the species. And so I often 
think that again this is another reason 
for everybody to know about menration 
because the pain and the problems 
associated with perpetuating the species 
have been uniquely born by half the population. 
So how do you explain menstrual pain to 
someone who hasn't had it? So obviously 
it's a difficult experience to 
understand pain that you've never 
experienced. To put it in perspective, 
the amount of, you know, pressure 
generated when someone has, you know, 
menstrual cramps uh can be the same as 
the pressure generated in labor when 
you're pushing. So, just kind of put 
that in perspective. And I'll add that 
uh some people have equated the pain uh 
the pain in labor is equivalent 
to cutting a finger off without an 
anesthetic. So, just to kind of put that 
in perspective, there are people who've 
come up with sort of menstrual cramp 
machines to try to get people to uh 
appreciate how much it it hurts. I'm 
not sure how accurate those things are 
because menstrual pain is a visceral 
deep pain and that you know those those 
devices are creating a pain on the 
surface. But the important point is that 
it can be very very painful for a lot of 
people and that pain is often minimized 
and uh and it shouldn't be. I think it's 
really important that people understand 
that if they have cramps that are 
affecting their activities of daily 
living that that's time to talk with a 
medical provider. And obviously that's 
going to mean different things for 
different people. But if the cramps are 
affecting you in that way or they're 
affecting a loved one or your child or 
your your friend in that way, then 
that's time to talk about seeing a 
medical provider. In addition to the 
suffering from having pain, um there is 
some data that suggests that having 
untreated pain can also have other 
ramifications with your nervous system. 
It may raise your rate of having other 
pain conditions because pain kind of 
primes the nervous system in many ways. 
This is an active area of research. Uh 
but I think it speaks to the fact that 
you know we don't understand the full 
implications of this. But also people 
shouldn't be suffering in the here and 
now. We we don't need fancy science 
about other downstream effects to say 
your pain needs treated needs treating. 
If you have pain, you have pain and 
it should be treated. It should be 
recognized. And also we need to make a 
decision about is this pain that needs 
to be investigated because is it a 
warning sign that there's something else 
going on. So one of the most common 
treatments for menstrual pain are taking 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs u 
that we also call NSAIDs. And what these 
drugs do are they block prostaglandins 
and that's why they're very very 
effective. However, there are some 
people they don't work for. And when 
they don't help, that could be a sign 
there's something else causing your 
pain, like endometriosis. But 
also, for some people, they just 
don't work well. And we don't really 
understand why that is. But that is an 
evidence-based approach to treating 
menstrual pain, taking medications that 
block prostaglandins, non-steroidal, 
anti-inflammatory drugs. I often get 
asked if people should track their 
menstrual cycles. I always say, well, 
what's the reason that you think you 
need to do that? Are you having symptoms 
that you're not sure if they're related 
to your menstrual cycle? Yes. Then what 
we call sort of a menstrual calendar or 
menstrual diary would be very helpful 
because, for example, I can't make the 
diagnosis of PMS unless I know that your 
symptoms always start after when we 
think you've ovulated. That can be very 
helpful to sort out symptoms. If you're 
having pelvic pain and we want to know 
is this really related just to when 
you're having your period or if this is 
more pelvic pain that's not related to 
your cycle or headaches. Some people 
have menstrual migraines. So tracking 
your cycle can be very useful to provide 
your medical provider with two or three 
months worth of data to help. But we're 
also seeing this explosion of what we 
call the quantified self of tracking 
sort of for the purposes of tracking 
that you're going to glean bits of 
information that's going to help you 
optimize your body and we don't have any 
data to support that. So, one of the 
issues, especially with menstrual 
tracking apps, is many of them use 
proprietary data or proprietary 
algorithms that researchers can't 
analyze to see how accurate they are. 
And if you're just tracking based on a 
calendar and an app is using calendar 
input to predict when your next cycle 
is going to come, that can be quite 
inaccurate. And there was a study where 
they looked at women who had tracked 
their cycles. And what happened was when 
their period didn't come when the app 
predicted, the women blamed their bodies 
as opposed to blaming the app for being 
incorrect with the prediction. Meaning 
the app made you less informed about 
your body than more informed. There's 
also a lot of talk on social media about 
athletes using their menstrual cycle to 
optimize performance or you should only 
lift weights at this time of your cycle 
and do cardio here. And none of that is 
really grounded in good science. So we 
do not have data that says that during 
the first week of your cycle you need to 
do this kind of exercise and in days 10 
to 15 you need to do this kind. there is 
no robust data there at all to support 
that. Also, in my mind, evolutionarily 
that doesn't seem to make a lot of sense 
because we wouldn't have choices, you 
know, when you need to gather food and 
water about what you could or couldn't 
do. Um, it's probably not fair to bring 
that into it, but it always makes me 
think of that. Now, it is true that if 
you're trying to optimize your physical 
fitness, there may be times of the month 
where, for example, if your breasts 
hurt, you might not want to do upper 
body working, right? So, you're 
listening to your body. Or if you've got 
menstrual diarrhea, maybe going out for 
a long run isn't going to work for you. 
Now, those are kind of intuitive. You 
don't need an app to tell you that. If 
you are a professional athlete and 
missing two days of arms at a critical 
time could have an impact for you 
because the difference between winning 
maybe the gold and the silver is, you 
know, based on a millimeter of this or a 
millisecond of that. You know, we're 
talking about tiny tiny fractions. Then 
perhaps doing a workout schedule that 
takes into account when you can or can't 
do arms or when you can or can't do a 
long run is going to help you optimize 
your training. But for everybody else, 
we we really just don't have data to say 
except listen to your body. If your 
body's telling you that something's 
hurting at this time, then maybe leave 
that exercise for a time when it's not 
hurting. And certainly, we don't have 
good data to say hormonally you're going 
to do better working on muscles a 
certain way at different times of the 
cycle. That the data just isn't there. 
So, I think it comes down to trusting 
your body and with the caveat that we 
can't be sure that apps will help you 
trust your body. There is a dark side 
to menstrual tracking apps that people 
absolutely need to know about, whether 
they're tracking just to see what's 
going on with their cycle or whether 
they're using an app that's part of a 
fertility awareness method. So that 
data can be subpoenaed by a district 
attorney and could be used to build a 
case against someone if they live in a 
place where abortion is illegal and 
where people are prosecuted for having 
abortions or even prosecuted for the 
belief that they might have had an 
abortion. And so when you're collecting 
this data at the time you're collecting 
it, you don't know that you might want 
to seek an abortion in a month or two 
months or three months. But that data 
that tells someone when your last period 
is being collected and people can have 
cases built against them from data that 
has been harvested from their phones. 
So, I think it's just very important 
when people are living in areas where 
they do not have the legal right to have 
an abortion or where prosecution for 
having abortions is happening that 
people are mindful about how they use 
these apps. I think a lot of people are 
unaware about the amount of data their 
phone is collecting on them. We've all 
had that experience of talking about 
wanting a certain meal or doing 
something and then all of a sudden 
there's an ad that appears for it, you 
know, on your social media, you know, 
within seconds. It seems it's not a 
stretch that all the data that pins 
you to your menstrual cycle could be 
harvested by someone. And we've 
certainly seen even in some states 
pharmacists being refusing dispense 
medication because it could potentially 
cause a miscarriage, you know, for 
somebody who's on it for an immune 
system problem or for something else and 
having to sort of show proof that that 
they couldn't possibly be pregnant. So, 
I don't think it's a stretch that in 
some places this kind of data could lead 
to all kinds of problems down the road. 
So people just need to be very mindful 
about where we're going. That ignorance 
about the menstrual cycle is clearly 
very common even even amongst medical 
providers. That weaponizing this 
ignorance is basically becoming law uh 
in many places and that these are really 
troubling times even now more than ever. 
This is when people need to actually 
know the facts so they can speak up and 
hopefully turn this tide because we are 
definitely seeing in many parts of the 
United States a shift towards viewing 
women solely as breeders and that your 
life outside of pregnancy has less value 
than your role as basically carrying a 
pregnancy. So people who are pregnant 
not being able to get the medical care 
that they need because of a potential 
harm to a fetus. We have seen people 
being denied chemotherapy, being denied 
treatment for cancers because they are 
pregnant and they live in places where 
they can't get an abortion. This is all 
along the line of basically reducing 
half the population to being potential 
breeders. And I don't think we can sound 
enough alarms about that. So I think 
everybody needs to know about menstruation. 
If we can't talk about it, if we can't 
share knowledge about it, then the 
implication is that it's shameful and 
that it doesn't matter. We know that the 
menstrual cycle has a significant impact 
on the half the population that has it. 
A lot of that impact is understudied. 
We don't have enough knowledge about how 
that can affect medications. And I'm not 
talking about medications just for the 
reproductive tract. talking about how 
does that affect taking your blood 
pressure medication? How does that 
affect your cancer care? How does that 
affect all these things? We are really 
behind with our knowledge in that area. 
So if you have a menstrual cycle, if you 
love someone who has a menstrual cycle, 
and I know that you came from someone 
who had a menstrual cycle, you should 
want everybody to be able to access the 
same level of care. In addition, we 
know that people who have the menstrual 
cycle, who have a menstrual cycle, have 
other issues related to that. They can 
have heavy periods. They can have 
painful periods. They can have medic 
medical problems related to having their 
periods. And we want everybody to know 
about that so people aren't suffering 
at home. We want people to know how much 
blood is too much, how much pain is a 
concern, has your period started too 
late. All these things are important 
to know about so you can advocate for 
yourself. Because if we're not talking 
about menstruation, how do people know 
about these things? They don't. and they 
just think maybe their body is uniquely 
broken or maybe they don't think 
anything's wrong and they don't seek 
care when they have a medical problem. 
The only people who are served by not 
talking about ministration is the 
patriarchy. It is the political powers 
that exist. Those are the only things 
that are served by not talking about the 
menstrual cycle. It's not shameful. We 
deserve to be able to have conversations 
about it and we deserve to know what's 
happening to our bodies and to be able 
to have a say in the medicine and the 
research so everybody can have access to 
quality care.
>>  
Chapter 2, the science of menopause. 
Everybody who has a menstrual cycle will 
at some point have that menstrual cycle 
stop. The winding down of the menstrual 
cycle is the menopause transition and 
the stopping is menopause. But even 
though everybody's going to experience 
that, very few people understand what it 
is and are really unaware of the 
biological changes that they're going to 
experience. And to me, that's 
unacceptable that this is a universal 
experience and yet it's really not 
spoken about at all. Depending on how 
long you live, you may spend a third 
or maybe even a half of your life in 
menopause. Understanding about it is 
really important, not just for you 
personally, but medically, we need to 
understand it because we don't know, 
might medications act differently when 
somebody has finished menstruating versus 
when they're still having the menstrual 
cycle. And not just reproductive 
medications, obviously we're talking 
about other medications, cancer care, 
hypertensive care, care for diabetes, 
all of these things. So if you're going 
to live a half or a third of your life 
in a particular phase, we should know 
about that phase. Often I hear menopause 
framed as a disease and it's not. Uh we 
don't consider puberty a disease and we 
don't consider pregnancy a disease and 
menopause is not a disease. That 
thinking uh is based on pharmaceutical 
marketing uh from the 1960s that uh 
suggested that now that women were 
living long enough, they were 
experiencing menopause. You know, that 
life expectancy was now over the age of 
50. So now we're experiencing menopause. 
But that erases everybody's grandmother 
and great-grandandmother. And and we 
know it's simply not true. uh because 
nobody ever has that question about life 
expectancy and men do they? Most animals 
die after they finish reproducing. So 
they keep reproducing, they keep 
reproducing and they go all the way to 
the end. Animals that keep on living 
after reproduction are quite uncommon. 
The humans, so humans are the big one. 
Orcas um are another one and there may 
be a few other species as well, but it's 
not as well studied. So the question is 
if everything about reproduction is 
really evolution getting that next 
generation and the next generation 
how does menopause something where 
reproduction is no longer 
possible how is that beneficial? 
It turns out, we think it's beneficial 
because of something called the 
grandmother or the wise woman hypothesis 
that when you finish menstruating, you 
finish having more offspring. And 
when you don't have to run around 
after a seven or an 8-year-old or a 
10-year-old, you are now able to help 
your children. You are able to offload 
work that they have. And so the idea is 
is that historically for humans having 
a grandmother associated with the family 
unit meant you had an extra pair of 
knowledgeable hands that themselves 
weren't occupied with child rearing. You 
had someone who could go out and help 
gather food. You had someone that could 
help with child care. You had someone 
who could help with building shelter, 
finding water, passing on historical 
knowledge from other generations about 
what you did during a drought, what you 
did when the cold weather came. All of 
this wisdom would also be passed down, 
as well as having the helping hands. And 
so the idea is that menopause represents 
evolution, the long game. you're not 
helping your immediate offspring, you're 
helping your grand offspring live longer 
and or producing more offspring. So, 
it's not your genetics per se passing 
along, but your grand genetics that 
you're helping with. And so, that's the 
the main theory for the existence of 
menopause is that it was very beneficial 
evolutionarily. So, it's the idea that 
we retain our power as we age. So 
we say menopause has occurred when 
you are a year from your last period. If 
you're over the age of 45, between the 
ages of 45 and 55, that is the expected 
range for that to happen. Now, just like 
there are hormonal changes that lead up 
to the first period, there are hormonal 
changes that lead up to the last period. 
And that time of hormonal change is 
known as the menopause transition. But 
you may have also heard it discussed as 
Perimenopause or pre-menopause. Now the 
menopause transition is sort of anywhere 
between four to seven years, maybe even 
a little bit longer. And it is this sort 
of winding down of reproductive 
hormones, but it's not a general 
decline. In fact, it's actually much 
more chaotic. So you may have some 
months where you produce more estradiol, 
the main estrogen, than you normally 
would, and other months where you 
produce less. But what happens is over 
time menstruation starts to space out. 
People might go more and more time in 
between. Eventually they'll start 
skipping periods. And when people are 
skipping periods, we generally believe 
they're, you know, probably about 1 to 3 
years from their final period. 
Medically, we use the men the word 
menopause to describe kind of the day of 
the final period, but you never really 
know it's the day until afterwards. And 
it doesn't really signify anything. You 
know, it's really of no value. And 
medically, we say everything after that 
final period is post-menopause. Although 
I would say colloquially most of us use 
the term menopause to describe kind 
of the day of the final period and 
everything afterwards. You know, for 
simplicity's sake, the typical age for 
menopause for the final period happening 
is between the ages of 45 and 55. If 
your final period happens between ages 
40 and before 45, then we call that 
premature menopause. And if your periods 
stop before age 40, we call that primary 
ovarian insufficiency. Now, people can 
also have surgical menopause. You can 
have your ovaries removed and then that 
puts you into menopause. And we sort of 
categorize it based on the age. So, if 
surgical menopause happens at age 45 and 
older, then that's in the typical time 
range. If it happens under the age of 
45, we would consider it in that sort of 
premature sort of grouping or folding, 
if you will. A lot of people ask about 
hormone testing for menopause. And I 
always say, well, you got through 
puberty without hormone testing and 
everything worked okay. If menopause is 
happening at the time we expect it to 
happen, then we don't need hormone 
tests. Cuz if you're 49, we expect your 
periods to stop. That's not a surprise. 
If you're 39, we don't expect your 
periods to stop and you need hormone 
testing. So, what matters is, is this 
change happening in a time that we would 
predict it to happen? Now, it's also 
important to remember there are other 
medical conditions that can cause 
periods to stop. So sometimes people 
might need testing for other things, but 
hormone testing, meaning the 
reproductive hormones, is actually not a 
reliable way to see where you are sort 
of in that menopause continuum, where 
you are in the menopause transition. And 
it really only reliably tells you that 
you are menopausal until you are well 
and done with your final period. So it 
doesn't help because you know that 
you're well and done. So there's nothing 
that can predict based on hormone tests. 
We don't treat someone who is over the 
age of 45 based on their hormone tests. 
We do recommend hormone testing when 
people are under the age of 45 because 
that is not when menopause is expected. 
So if you're 42 and your periods stop, 
we need to know is that premature 
menopause or is there another medical 
condition causing that? So, it's all 
about understanding if the changes 
are happening at the time when they're 
expected to happen. Menopause is 
associated with a large constellation of 
symptoms. And because this has been 
historically really understudied, I 
don't think we have a full handle on 
how many symptoms are common and in what 
percentage of people would be expected 
to experience all of them. But the ones 
that we know a lot about that are quite 
common that are really often part of the 
general conversation are hot flashes and night 
sweats which are known as vasomotor symptoms.  
Another common one is vaginal 
dryness or vaginal irritation or 
pain with sex. Brain fog is another common symptom 
that's experienced. palpitations. People 
will describe palpitations and joint 
pain, another common experience. And 
so those are some of probably the more 
common ones that we hear about, but of 
course the list is quite long. So the 
menopause transition, the hormonal chaos 
time that leads up to menopause has an 
average duration of about 4 to 7 years. 
However, symptoms don't always correlate 
with that. So, some people have their 
worst symptoms earlier on in the 
menopause transition and some people 
have their worst symptoms towards the 
end of the menopause transition and some 
people have their worst symptoms around 
the time of their final period or 
even afterwards. So, there's a large 
variation and I think that a good way 
to think about that is there's a large 
variation of how people experience 
pregnancy, right? That there's a wide 
constellation of symptoms. Some people 
have severe uh severe morning sickness 
and other people don't have it at all. 
Some people have a lot of swelling, some 
people don't. And so we're kind of 
used to that range of experiences with 
pregnancy. And I think that's a really 
similar way to think about the range of 
experiences with menopause. So a lot 
of experiences that cross many domains. 
There are a lot of symptoms in menopause 
and in medicine. We do have a toolkit to 
help manage many of them. However, one 
of the most important things is having a 
good health foundation going in. And 
that is exercise. And I I don't like 
that answer any more than anybody else. 
But we can't deny the impact of exercise 
on all of the domains that menopause 
touches. When people go through 
menopause, that changes their trajectory 
for risks for type two diabetes, for 
heart disease, uh for dementia, for 
depression. It has all these impacts. It 
changes your trajectory for your risk of 
osteoporosis. And the thing that touches 
all of those domains is exercise. You 
get stronger bones. You get more muscle 
mass. You lower your risk of type two 
diabetes. It's good for your heart. It 
helps with mood. And it protects against 
dementia. So I think that it's really 
important for people to understand that 
while we do have medications for many 
symptoms, medications can only do so 
much. And if you want the one thing, if 
exercise were a drug, that would be the 
thing we'd be giving to everybody. So to 
keep that in mind and it's not just 
aerobic exercise, but strength building 
that is super important, resistance 
training as well. So that would be the 
most important foundation for treating 
menopause. There are many symptoms in 
menopause and one of the treatments 
that people have heard a lot about is 
menopausal hormone therapy or MHT. We 
used to call it hormone replacement 
therapy and we do not use that term 
anymore because we are not replacing 
estrogen that you should have. We expect 
menopause to happen. We expect estrogen 
levels to change but we also don't 
expect people to suffer. And so it's a 
therapy. Menopausal hormone therapy 
is the gold standard treatment for hot 
flashes and night sweats, vasomotor 
symptoms. We do have other treatments as 
well. We have um uh a new drug that's 
specifically for hot flashes. And then 
we also have some drugs that are in the 
category for uh treating epilepsy and 
treating depression that we also use 
for hot flashes. But menopausal hormone 
therapy is the gold standard. It will 
treat night sweats. It will treat hot 
flashes. When people are suffering with 
uh changes in their vagina, then we use 
vaginal estrogen. There are also 
some other products as well. We don't 
generally recommend taking menopausal 
hormone therapy for the only purpose of 
treating the vagina because it's not 
quite as good as putting the products in 
the vagina. So, you want the best 
treatment. A lot of people ask about 
menopausal hormone therapy. And the big 
question is, should I take it? Like any 
medication, do you need it? That's what you should 
be asking yourself because while 
menopausal hormone therapy can help many 
parts of menopause, there's also parts 
that it can't help, right? So, you only 
want to take a medication for what it 
can do. There is no broad agreement that 
every person should be on menopausal 
hormone therapy when they go through 
menopause. Meaning, we do not recommend 
it universally as preventative care. So 
I often think about menopausal hormone 
therapy as things that are really 
evidence-based and those would be the 
green light indications. So that would 
be hot flashes and night sweats or 
prevention of osteoporosis for people 
who are at high risk. Those are things 
that in the United States the packaging 
label states the FDA states that you can 
advertise for those reasons and those 
have been shown in good studies. There 
are also what I would consider yellow 
light reasons for starting menopausal 
hormone therapy. meaning it might help 
some people, it might not. And that 
takes a much more individual discussion 
in the office. So, a good example 
would be depression in the menopause 
transition. There are some studies that 
show that estrogen can help with that. 
Interestingly, it doesn't help after 
menopause. So, if someone were 2 years 
after their final period and said they 
wanted to start estrogen for depression, 
that wouldn't be an evidence-based 
recommendation. But if they were having 
irregular cycles and in their menopause 
transition, then that would be other 
yellow light indications for starting 
hormones might be joint pain. The 
studies aren't great, but it might help 
some people. So, if you're someone who 
has bad joint pain, then it might be 
worth trying to see if you're in the 
percentage it can help. And there is 
some data that shows it may reduce the 
incidence of type 2 diabetes. And so, if 
someone is at very high risk for that, 
that might be part of a discussion with 
your provider. But there isn't a global 
recommendation to give menopausal 
hormone therapy for prevention of type 
two diabetes. We do not recommend 
currently starting menopausal hormone 
therapy for prevention of dementia 
or Alzheimer's disease. And we do not 
currently recommend it for prevention 
of cardiovascular disease. There may be 
some benefits for starting it early for 
cardiovascular disease, but it hasn't 
reached the threshold where it's a 
universal recommendation. We do not 
recommend menopausal hormone therapy for 
brain fog. There are quite a few studies 
that show that it doesn't have any 
short-term impact on brain functioning. 
One caveat to that might be if you're 
someone who's sleeping very poorly 
because of hot flashes. So, if you're 
up eight times at night with hot flashes 
kicking the sheets off your bed, 
it might well be worth a trial of 
menopausal hormone therapy to see if 
sleeping better and getting a good 
night's sleep helps your brain function. 
Right? So, in that context, it may well 
be helpful. But for the symptom of brain 
fog alone, no, it doesn't work for that. 
It also doesn't work for weight gain 
in menopause. And that's something that 
people ask about as well. So whether 
or not you should start it would really 
depend on do you have something that it 
can help or that it could possibly help 
um based on your individual sort of risk 
profile. And if it is a safe therapy for 
you, then it may well be worth trying. 
And like any therapy, if you start it 
and you're not seeing the benefit that 
you want to get, then it should be 
reassessed. One symptom that isn't 
discussed enough in the menopause 
transition are menstrual irregularities. 
So people obviously can have skipped 
periods because that's part of the 
menopause transition, but people can 
also have heavier periods and in 
addition they accumulate medical 
conditions, specifically fibroids that 
can contribute to heavy periods as well 
as another condition called adnomiiosis. 
So for many people, hormones are also an 
important part of controlling bleeding 
problems. And one way we often do that 
is with the estrogen containing birth 
control pill. And the reason we do that 
is it is good at controlling heavy 
bleeding. And people also get the 
benefit of estrogen. And if people need 
contraception, they have the benefit of 
contraception. So that is one option for 
people. And if people are at low risk 
for problems related to the estrogen 
containing birth control pill, they can 
actually take it up to the age of 55. 
But there are other options too. We can 
use a hormonal IUD to treat heavy 
periods. And then if people want to 
start menopausal hormone therapy, they 
certainly can. And that would be at the 
standard doses for menopausal hormone 
therapy. So when we're talking about 
menopausal hormone therapy, we're 
talking about pharmaceutical 
preparations that come from a 
pharmaceutical company. meaning a pill, 
a patch, a transdermal lotion or a gel 
that comes labeled from a pharmaceutical 
company. And it is very important that 
products be pharmaceutical because 
making hormones into something that's 
absorbed reliably either from the gut or 
across the skin is actually quite 
challenging. It takes years of research 
to do this. So when I prescribe a 
pharmaceutical patch or I prescribe a 
pharmaceutical pill, I know exactly how 
much is being absorbed and I know what 
dose protects the bones. I know what 
dose can help with hot flashes. So this 
is very important information. When you 
get a compounded product, you have none 
of that research and development. You do 
not know if the product will be absorbed 
well. You do not know if the vehicle 
it's being compounded with has been 
studied. When you get a pharmaceutical 
product, these things are batch tested. 
So, we know that they contain what 
they claim. That doesn't happen with a 
compounded product. And so, there can 
be issues with absorption. There can be 
issues with dose. Also, compounded 
products don't contain the same warning 
labels that pharmaceutical products do, 
which gives them the illusion of safety. 
Because when people see a warning label, 
they get concerned. And if they don't 
see it, they think, well, they don't 
need to be concerned. But it's just that 
the rules in the United States don't 
require that warning label to be on it. 
And I would include pellets that are 
injected as part of compounded hormones. 
Pellets often deliver very high doses 
um of estrogen or testosterone or both 
depending on the pellet. They're also 
not batch tested and they are associated 
with a lot of adverse events. And the 
big problem with compounded products is 
adverse events often don't get reported. 
It's very important that people use a 
pharmaceutical preparation so they 
can get a safe dose and they can get 
something that has been studied and we 
know works. Now, one question I get, 
well, but I want to take bioidenticals. 
Bioidentical is a marketing term that 
has essentially no medical meaning. The 
belief is that bio identical means that 
it's a hormone that is identical to what 
your ovaries make. But being the same as 
what your ovaries make doesn't make a 
hormone safe. I could extract a bunch of 
estrogen from a bunch of ovaries and 
give it to someone and over time give 
them endometrial cancer and that would 
be from an estrogen from an ovary. So 
what makes something safe is if it has 
been tested and studied and we know that 
it is safe. But here's the kicker is 
that almost every pharmaceutical hormone 
that I would prescribe for you could be 
considered bioidenticals because it's 
all estradiol. It's all made generally 
from soybeans and it all comes from 
generally the same plant. I mean plant 
as in factory, not as in plant that's 
grown. And so if you are purchasing raw 
estradiol from a compounding pharmacy 
and mixing it up, or you're a 
pharmaceutical company and you're 
purchasing raw estradiol, it's coming 
from the same place. They don't have a 
special soy estradile tree that they are 
picking their hormone from. And the only 
exception is conjugated ecoinestrogens 
which are made from horse urine. They're 
not really made. They're extracted. And 
so technically they are the only natural 
estrogen because they are unchanged from 
how they are found in nature. But if I'm 
prescribing estradiol from you, it is 
plant-based um and it is bio identical 
and you can get that from a 
pharmaceutical company. Testosterone is 
not part of menopausal hormone 
therapy. meaning there is no universal 
recommendation to add that in. We don't 
recommend adding it in for fatigue. We 
don't recommend adding it in for brain 
fog. We don't recommend adding it in for 
hot flashes. You should think of 
testosterone as a medication for a 
specific indication. And the only 
indication for it is in people who are 
suffering from libido or desire problems 
who have a relationship that's not the 
cause of those desire issues. and 
for people who have explored other 
therapies. So for example, medical 
mindfulness is highly effective for 
libido and desire disorders. And there's 
a lot of disinformation about out there 
about what desire actually is. So I 
always encourage people to get educated 
about that subject. But that is the 
only evidence-based indication for 
testosterone is for desire related 
issues. So how do you sort this snake 
oil from science online? because there 
is a lot of medical content out there, 
whether it's about the menstrual cycle 
or about menopause. So, I have a few 
good rules of thumb. In general, if 
something sounds too good to be true, it 
probably is. There is no influencer or 
doctor who has discovered a secret that 
no one else knows about. If the 
information's out there, we all know 
about it. So, be really careful about 
people making bold promises. You should 
be able to look that up and if it's 
true, you should be able to find major 
news stories about that thing. Number 
two, does the person sell supplements? 
Okay, supplements are untested, 
unregulated pharmaceuticals. 
If I sold a birth control pill, if I had 
Dr. Jen Gunter's birth control pill, you 
would probably rightly think that my 
information about contraception might be 
suspect. So, when you have somebody who 
makes money advertising supplements or 
even has their own brand of supplements, 
you should really consider all of their 
medical information as contaminated 
because how do you know it's not a 
subtle cell to promote their supplements. 
Number three, be very mindful about what 
you read online because you need to fact 
check immediately. If you keep engaging, 
that might stick in your brain. So, how 
do you fact check? How do you do that? 
What I recommend people do is take the 
subject matter, whatever it is, put it 
into your Google search and add, if it's 
about, for example, reproductive health, 
ACG, American College of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, or SOGC, Society of 
Obstetricians and Gynecologist of 
Canada, or Menopause Society. Put 
your question and then put that in 
afterwards. And what that will do is 
it will force the algorithm to bring 
content from those societies up to the 
top. Because one of the big problems 
with doing your own research online 
is many people actually end up with 
incorrect information because people who 
sell snake oil are really good at search 
engine optimization. So you want to 
trump that by putting in a medical 
professional society. You could also put 
the CDC. You could put the WH. Uh you 
could ask your doctor if it's something 
about your gut or something about brain 
health. What's the medical society that 
they trust? So you can put that in. So 
how should you sort through things when 
you're trying to seek medical care or 
when you're seeking medical care? I 
encourage people to write down the 
things that are bothering them. What 
are the symptoms that you wish would go 
away? And you know what? That can be a 
list of two things. It can be a list of 
12 things. So that can help your doctor 
try to work through that list with you. 
It might take more than one visit if 
there's a lot of issues, but trying to 
help you sort of think about how you're 
going to approach it in a systematic 
way. If you're not getting the care that 
you need, speak up as long as you feel 
safe doing that. So, if you don't think 
that your symptoms have been heard, it's 
very valid to say, well, you know, I 
read at the CDC that um that it's very 
safe for women to get vaccinated for 
COVID 19 and pregnancy. Why are you not 
offering me that? I'm pregnant. Right? 
So, come in with some information from 
some medical professional societies if 
you're worried about not being heard. 
You shouldn't need to do that, but that 
can help you know if you're getting the 
right care. Be mindful about who you're 
seeing. So, is this person truly an 
expert? Are they a physician who is 
board-certified in that area or are they 
someone who has less expertise? For 
example, a naturopath or a chiropractor. 
You may also want to look to see how 
that person is connected with industry. 
So with doctors, you can actually look 
them up online and see if they have made 
money from pharmaceutical companies. But 
you know what? You can't look up if a 
doctor's made money from a supplement 
company. And you can't look up 
naturopaths and chiropractors. So or 
physical therapists or nurses or anybody 
else who's online offering information. 
So you need to just be wary about that. 
I would be very mindful about getting 
health advice or health recommendations 
from celebrities. They are not just 
like us. Often the way they talk about 
different medical conditions or 
physiologic states like menopause uh 
isn't always evidence-based. While 
it's great that people want to 
raise awareness, be mindful about 
specific medical recommendations that 
come from celebrities.
>>  
Chapter 3. Are supplements safe? I 
get asked a lot about supplements and 
it's a really big and sometimes even 
confusing topic. And in addition, there 
are so many ads that come to us all the 
time on social media, either clear ads 
where someone's, you know, pushing a 
vitamin or soft ads where an influencer 
is just talking about it off the cuff 
and you don't actually know if it was 
paid for or not. So, the truth is there 
are very few supplements that are have 
good evidence-based medicine to support 
them. And the term supplement is really 
meant to be a dietary supplement, 
meaning something that is supplementing 
a dietary shortfall, right? The greatest 
example is probably prenatal vitamins. 
There is good evidence-based medicine to 
support using prenatal vitamins because 
the average person doesn't get enough 
folate and other micronutrients in their 
diet to support a real healthy 
pregnancy. So prenatal vitamins are a 
good evidence-based treatment or a good 
evidence-based recommendation. We also 
recommend multivitamins for people 
who've had bariatric surgery because 
they are not absorbing because of the 
surgery all of the nutrients as well. So 
those are examples of nutritional 
shortfalls, right? Either because your 
physical state has changed pregnancy or 
because your gut isn't absorbing enough 
of what you need. And so there are 
obviously a few other indications along 
those lines. So, for example, if 
somebody is, you know, h has an illness 
and they're having trouble eating for 
four or six weeks, might they might of 
multivitamin be recommended for 
that person to make up a nutritional 
shortfall. So, you think about that. 
We also recommend supplements to treat 
specific nutritional shortfalls. So, 
for example, if you have iron deficiency 
anemia, it's really hard to get enough 
iron from your diet to treat that. And 
so, we might recommend an iron 
supplement. There are medications that 
can affect uh levels of different uh 
micronutrients in our body. So for 
example, there are some water pills, 
diuretics that cause us to lose 
potassium. So some people might need to 
take a potassium supplement. So those 
are what we would consider sort of the 
kind of evidence-based examples, and 
that is not an, you know, an inclusive 
list, but that's how to think about it. 
Then there's this other class of 
supplements, meaning a reported medical 
benefit. Although in the United States, 
supplement companies can't actually say 
their product does anything. They all 
have these little FDA disclaimers. But 
that might be some things that are 
grounded in pretty good science or good 
science even. So magnesium to treat 
constipation. But there's also things 
that aren't grounded in good science 
like black cohosh for hot flashes. So 
each one of these needs to be 
investigated and looked at the evidence. 
Another common one that we see all the 
time is biotin for hair growth, but 
there's no data to support that. And 
there's a wide range of things that are 
potentially have good science behind 
them and things that have no science 
behind them and things that might be 
kind of in between. So each one of those 
has to be looked at independently. 
And then there are another category of 
supplements where there's a whole bunch 
of vitamins and minerals and herbals and 
botanicals all lumped together in 
a product for like ovary support or 
adrenal support or thyroid support or 
metabolism booster or fat burner. And 
these are things where there is an 
insinuation that there's some kind of 
benefit for your organ or for your 
health or for weight loss. And none of 
these are studied in any meaningful 
way. And many of them are actually 
adulterated. And that is one big concern 
with supplements is you do not know what 
you are getting. And so especially 
with products that are for libido, for 
metabolism, for sport enhancement, those 
products have a much higher risk of 
contamination. But there's also products 
that can be contaminated with lead or 
toxic molds or fungi. And so this is a 
huge problem. And that's actually why 
pharmaceuticals have a standard so none 
of these things happen. and they get 
tested and that doesn't happen with 
supplements. So, how do you decide? 
Well, you want to ask your doctor if the 
supplement you want to take falls in a 
good recommendation. So, for example, 
prenatal vitamins, beriatric surgery, or 
if ask them about the ovary support 
and hopefully they're going to tell you 
there's no indication for that. So, 
being mindful about whether you should 
even take the product in the first 
place. If it's something that you've 
decided you want to take or something 
that you need to take because your 
doctor says, "Look, you need iron. you 
have iron deficiency and you can't get 
enough in your diet, then the best that 
we can do in the United States are to 
look for third-party verifications. For 
example, a USP-verified label uh means 
that there's been third-party checking. 
That's that's really the best that we 
can do because in the United States, 
we we don't have uh the ability of the 
government to uh to require testing for 
purity. And it's important because one, 
you want to make sure that the product 
you're taking isn't contaminated with 
heavy metals or mold or fungi or things 
like that, but you also want to make 
sure it contains what it claims. Three 
ways to think about supplements. One, is 
this something you really need to take? 
Is there good evidence to support it? 
Places to look would be the CDC, Centers 
for Disease Control. If it's for a 
reproductive health issue, it might be 
the American College of Obstetricians 
and Gynecologists. And also in the US, 
the US government has the office of 
dietary supplements. So there are 
good places to go to find out is this 
something recommended for the reason 
that you want. So number one, do you 
really need it? Number two, who is 
recommending this to you? Is it someone 
who's selling a product or is 
this someone saying these are the 
recommendations of multiple medical 
societies? So look at the source of the 
recommendation. And number three, you 
want to take a product that has been 
tested by a third party. That's the best 
that we can do in the United States, but 
that is better than not having any 
testing. And let me add a fourth. Don't 
take something that's for sport 
enhancement or metabolism boosting. And 
be very wary about Ayurvedic products 
because they are actually very likely to 
be contaminated with lead. About 20% 
of them are. So we know that metabolism 
boosters, things like that are more 
likely to be adulterated and Ayurvedic 
medications have a high risk of 
being contaminated with lead. 
Four times a year, we print a magazine 
worth putting your phone down for. Big 
thinks premium print magazine is built 
with custom artwork and expert insight 
from the world's biggest thinkers. No AI slop,  
no rage bait, just big ideas for
curious people. Support the media  
you want to see in the world. Go to
bigthink.com/membership to join.