Hi. My name is Jesse Eisenberg.
Known as an actor. I also write and,
direct. And,
I forgot the other thing that I was
supposed to say because I was well, sorry.
I'm going to get better by this in the next
answer. What is the thing I was supposed to
be like?
I have, you know, an anxiety —
that's a performance anxiety. I have, you
know, that what you might call stage
fright. I think my therapist calls it
something a little more, medical. But,
I have those feelings
quite
deeply.
Every other year or so, I would
write a play and perform a play that I had
written. And I would perform the show, you
know, 150 times. That's, you
know, when you do a run of a play,
you know, that's
how many performances you do, which might
sound just, you know, crazy to an outsider
that you do that same play 150
times. But as the performer in it, every
one of those 150 times feels
so different.
And so I would notice that as the play
went on — the run of the play went on — when we
would get to performance 100 out of,
let's say, 150, it would just
get worse and worse and worse. Now it's
totally counterintuitive because you would
assume that if
if you've done 100 performances and
they've all gone well, why would the
101st go bad? But the way my
mind works, which is just out of anxiety,
you know, and catastrophization,
is that I assume that because the 100
first performances went well, the 101st
is definitely not going to go well.
That, you know, you can't land on red
100 times without hitting black. And so
that was — that's how I think. So I
would be most anxious
by the 150th performance
that I cannot believe we've done 149
shows and they've all gone
so well. Tonight's the night where I'm not
only going to screw it up, but I'm going to turn
to the audience to say the most
embarrassing thing that I would never
even tell my best friend. Okay. So this is
kind of how I think. I think a lot of
people can relate to that in other industries
because,
you know, we all have this feeling that,
you know, if something's going right, you
know, if you're a person who worries, the
next thing's going to go wrong. And it's so
strange because when I'm having these kind
of, like, anxiety
— kind of panic — attacks before
the performances,
my colleagues
who have been, like, uniformly
amazing colleagues, especially dealing
with somebody who is, like, kind of emotional
like I am,
you know, they're kind of, like, laughing
at me, which is nice because it shows
that, you know, what I'm feeling is not to
be, you know,
fretted over.
And they just know that that's how I am.
And then oftentimes, you know, I'll ask
them the same question that I asked them
the night before. "Do you think it's going to
go well tonight? Do you think it's going to
go well tonight?" I remember my one friend,
Michael Zegen, the actor — is this great
actor — we would be backstage every night, and
he would just be so sweet. He would
just say, "Yeah. It's going to be. I told you
that yesterday." And I said, "But do you
think tonight's going to go well too?" He's like,
"Yeah. Yeah. I told you that two nights ago
too." And so, I'm kind of
surrounded by sweet people. You know, in
my industry, I'm sure like a lot of
industries, but in particular, you know,
kind of the arts, it attracts oftentimes
empathetic people and so, it's good for
my, you know, personality
to be around that, or maybe it enables my
personality to get worse. But,
if somebody were to come to me and said,
you know, "I'm panicking." And I said, "Why?"
And they said, "I did 149 shows
and I know the 150th is
going be the worst one."
You know, of course, I would say, "How
could you possibly think that? You have to
look at those 149
as evidence,
foolproof evidence, that the 150th
is going to be exactly the same. For
something bad to go wrong, it would have
to be such an unbelievable fluke because it
would have gone wrong before. And it
probably would have gone wrong in the
beginning, those first 10 performances."
And so, it's funny. I am able to both see
outside myself
and see that kind of what is worrying or
rankling me is probably
not healthy or totally rational.
But if when it feels that way, it's hard
to not believe it because, you know,
feelings are oftentimes so much
more powerful,
than rational thoughts can be.
I've been on movie sets before where I had
what I would call, like, legitimate panic
attacks, like, where your body kind of you
know, sometimes it races and you, you
know, kind of feeling like your breath is,
you know, racing and your heart's
racing, and you feel like you're
hyperventilating. But I've also had these other
kind of weird panic attacks where your
body just kind of shuts down. And in scenes
where I was supposed to be,
you know, kind
of open,
I felt closed and that was like its own
kind of very scary panic attack. And I was
doing a movie, called _Adventureland_ where
I had a scene. It was kind of a simple
scene, but I was, like, saying goodbye to
my parents because I was moving to New
York City. And my body just shut down. I just
had a panic attack.
And,
I asked if we can stop filming, and I went
over to the director, and I just said,
"I'm so sorry. I don't know what happened.
I just froze." And it was this very sweet,
wonderful director, Greg Mottola, who
every actor who works with him wants to work
with him again. He's just this lovely,
sensitive person. And he took me aside. He
said, "Oh, take a break everybody for 5
minutes." He took me aside and he said,
"I just want to let you know that not only do I
understand what you're experiencing right
now, but I'd be so surprised if you didn't
experience it all the time. You're doing
a job that's kind of emotional, that is
demanding, and yet you're also worrying if
your hair looks, like, not dumb. And so,
like, I couldn't understand how anybody
would do the job you do. I certainly would
never be able to." And I just had this,
like, you know, incredibly cathartic
experience hearing that advice. And I went back
and did the scene, and it was great. The
scene was, you know, great because the
kind of weight off my shoulders,
was removed because
the expectations I had for myself of
being, like, you know, perfect in every
moment were just taken away. I just said,
"Oh, yeah. This job that I do
does have difficult aspects to it, and I
shouldn't try to kind of, let's say, ignore
those things. I should try to just
understand that they're there,
they're probably always going to be there,
and let me just try to embrace them." And,
you know, that applies
to any profession because,
you know, all professions have unusual
quirks, unusual difficulties
that, you know, you probably think are
pretty difficult to explain to somebody not
in that field. But what I found is what I
felt that day on that set
was very normal, very common.
You know, my cousin is a sports
journalist, and he, you know, he panics the day
before a deadline writing about football.
Again, it's something that I think is
totally unrelated to my, you know,
experience as an actor in a movie, and yet we
commiserate about that
same fear. I do find that when I'm around
people who kind of have similar emotional
experiences that I do — which is to say
kind of self-doubt, panic about future
things,
catastrophizing
otherwise
benign experiences —
I love being in the position of giving
advice, of helping somebody, of calming them
down
because it feels wonderful to help
somebody. And then for the selfish reason of you
seeing that actually, their fears are
oftentimes your fear. You know,
giving that advice can also,
you know, help you
be able to receive it the next time. When
I was on the set of my own movie as a
director, I was not acting in my first
movie. Finn Wolfhard,
was the main character and he's just
the loveliest,
most talented young man. You know, he's a
rock star. He's a famous movie
star. And so you think, "Wow, this kid must
be so comfortable. It must be so cool."
And yet, like everybody I meet who's very
good at their thing,
he was panicked the whole time. He was
worried the whole time that he wanted to be
good. And I saw it was like the second day
he had like a monologue the second day of
the shoot.
And I asked him how he was in the morning
and he said, "Actually, I had a really
tough night. I was kind of panicking about
the scene today."
And
I was so happy to be able to impart
this wonderful
advice I got so many years ago as an
actor. I took him aside and I said the thing
I've always wanted to tell another actor,
which is, like, "Listen, I understand what
you do. I understand it can be very
difficult. I understand you're putting yourself
out there emotionally while also trying to
remember, you know, 3 pages of
dialogue while also worrying that the
makeup that you're wearing today,
maybe makes you look, you know, vain or,
you know, more attractive than the
character should look and that you're
worried that the audience is going to think maybe
you're, you know, vain person. You're
trying to be natural and emotional that whole
time and you know what? That's very
difficult and I just want to tell you, Finn, I
just want to tell you what I heard from a
wonderful other director that all of that's
normal. The fact that you don't feel that
every second is probably a miracle
and, when you do feel it, use it. Have it
be part of the scene.
Have that anxiety come through in the
character. Don't deny that anxiety. Have it
come through and you'll never worry
about anything."
Because his character in that scene was
really anxious to talk to this, you know,
young person at this club that they were
at and he was feeling very nervous and I
said, "You know, that feeling, you
shouldn't deny it. Just feel that feeling."
And so once you stop kind of like denying
the kind of feelings that you're having
and try to maybe redirect them to a healthy
outcome,
you know, you don't worry as much. I'll
just say also, I go to an acting coach.
So when I have a new role, I'll go to the
acting coach and we'll do some esoteric,
some practical
work together,
dream exercises, but also kind of
practical stuff about, you know, how to think,
what to think on set in between takes. And, you
know, I had stage fright for a long time,
and she gave me the best advice. She just
said to me, "You know, when you're
experiencing that anxiety on set, that's
the character experiencing anxiety, so use
it." And what it taught me in kind of like
a macro way was to kind of, like, not be
fearful that I'm going to have a bad
feeling. In fact, have that bad feeling,
remind me that I am motivated
to be feeling things on stage. And so, when
I have a bad feeling on stage of panic,
of worry, I now use it as a motivator.
Sometimes I think this is the character
having that panic attack. And you know
what? The character might have a panic. Even
if he's having a confident scene here, you
know, most characters are dealing with
other things. And I think this would also
apply to other industries because
oftentimes,
that panic attack could really just mean
that you really care about what you're
doing. And instead of worrying that I
might have a panic attack during this
presentation or this meeting, you could
think, "You know what? If I have a panic
attack during this meeting, it's because I
really care about it. I'm going to take a
second. I'm going to breathe, and I'm going to
remind myself that this anxiety comes from
a place of really,
you know, investing in what I'm
talking about."