Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today we continue with the content of the previous video
Let’s talk about the essence of Yangming’s philosophy of mind
In the previous video
We have analyzed in detail the Chinese culture during the Tang and Song dynasties.
The deep crisis we face
And how did the philosophers respond to this crisis?
Specifically
It is through the means of seeking knowledge through investigation of things.
Through the aesthetic understanding and perception of natural scenery
In subjective experience, the self and the Way of Heaven become one
Therefore, philosophers
On the surface, I am praising the omnipresence of Heaven's principles.
And the harmonious beauty of the creation of all things by heaven and earth
But the real purpose
Is to forget oneself through this aesthetic experience
Denial of self
Thus forgetting personal suffering and shame
Able to adapt to the actual imperial system in a subtle way
It is precisely because of this
The paralysis of Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism is inevitable
Because on the one hand it emphasizes that the principles of heaven are all-encompassing,
Ubiquitous
But the way it perceives the world
But it is rigid, closed and single
It has not developed any new
Tools for understanding the world
turn out
It can only make people repeat the words of the saints over and over again
Close your eyes and ears
In this state
From Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism to Yangming's School of Mind
It can be said to be inevitable
Compared with the former
Yangming's philosophy of mind seems more radical
More full of fantasy and mysterious colors
But it actually
It is just that Chinese culture is heading towards its end.
A flashback
Then this video
Let’s uncover the process.
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
Why do we say that science is bound to become paralyzed?
This requires the basic method of science
That is to say, the study of things leads to knowledge
In the view of science
Studying Things to Gain Knowledge
It is to consciously integrate oneself into the principles of heaven.
In this omnipresent universe
Infinitely enlarge your heart
but
This actually requires a relatively high level of aesthetic ability.
Physics requires individuals to be in the ordinary natural scenery
We must also feel the operation of the law of nature
This feeling
It is not based on rational deduction and analysis
It is an extremely subtle, sensitive and profound aesthetic experience.
for example
Seeing "a trace of spring water and a piece of smoke"
We must realize the biochemical flow of the universe
The Silent Movement of Heaven
Forgetting the existence of self
Watching the vegetation flourish and wither, the sun and moon move
You have to realize that everything changes.
The secret of the unchanging essence
This is a kind of emotion, perception
A deep aesthetic of complete immersion in the cosmic order
Many poems by Neo-Confucianists of the Song Dynasty
There is a special kind of tranquility, indifference,
Introverted and nihilistic temperament
Their poems
Closer to the spirit of Taoism and Buddhism
That's it.
I just want to say a few more words
I memorized many Song poems when I was a child.
Until now
I think the artistic conception of many Song poems is very beautiful.
And I read these contents since I was a child
It didn't make me more nihilistic or negative.
This actually depends on the environment that each person is in.
There is a direct relationship
Different eras
Different cultural contexts
Will make people the same work
There may be completely different experiences and interpretations
so
No one needs
Because I criticize something in my video
Just deny your own emotions.
As we mentioned repeatedly in this video
What really matters
Can everyone read and interpret
Evoke your own unique experience
If you can learn from a poem,
In an ancient philosophical concept
Linked to some deep feelings about myself
Then even if your feelings and
The author's original intention is far from
It doesn't matter at all.
For example, you can use the perspective of Western philosophy
Redefining the concept of "studying things to gain knowledge"
This personalized interpretation and
Still worthy of respect
Let's get back to our topic.
We say
Although science seems quite beautiful and poetic
But it is more of a way to make people forget themselves
Psychological massage to maintain spiritual identity
This method is actually very costly.
In an environment of frequent party struggles and political decay
It is required that a person can also learn from ordinary natural scenery.
Realize the natural principles of stability, order, and harmony
It's a very difficult thing
More importantly
This theory of physics
There is a huge contradiction in itself
Neo-Confucianism requires a person to eliminate his own human desires
Integrate into the universe
This seems like a huge self-aggrandizement.
It's a kind of self-dissolution
Because this process
To eliminate all individual desires and particularities
Let your heart become a completely transparent mirror
Can only reflect the glory of heaven
However
Human personality
Or selfishness
It is impossible to be truly eliminated no matter what.
Even if individuals subjectively want to eliminate their own selfishness
But this desire to eliminate selfishness
It is still a kind of selfishness
The result is that the more individuals try to eliminate selfishness,
Instead, it will produce more selfishness
So people enter an endless cycle of internal friction.
He found himself always dirty
It's not pure enough
Therefore, we need to always make revolution in the depths of our souls
then
The person will feel constant anxiety,
Shame and self-blame
This is different from the ideology of the Cultural Revolution.
It is completely connected
Due to the inconsistency of the science itself
Therefore, Confucian scholars in front of the way of heaven
Still can't avoid that deep fear
They did not subjectively integrate into the principles of heaven.
It truly transcends all the sufferings of ordinary people.
Instead they fell into deeper self-deprecation.
and self-denial
Sima Guang, a famous official in the Song Dynasty
He was once a role model for many philosophers.
However, he calls himself a "old man"
A pedantic and mediocre person
He regards being pedantic and mediocre as his ideal personality
In his collection of essays, Yu Shu
He once said:
Some people say my words are very mediocre
Nothing new
I admit it
But is there any difference between the heaven and earth in ancient times and today?
Since the heaven and earth, the sun and the moon, have not changed
The nature of all things does not change.
So why do we need to change our mindset?
Filial piety, benevolence, loyalty
These things have been talked about since ancient times.
Until now, I am only afraid that I cannot be mediocre.
What's wrong with mediocrity?
Therefore, scholars should serve God with a submissive attitude.
Be cautious when interacting with others
God is the father of all things
The son cannot disobey the father's orders
The king's orders cannot be disobeyed by the subjects
If God puts you in trouble
You have to change
Or God made you stupid
But you have to become wise
will be punished
Actually
A self-deprecating scholar like Sima Guang
And many more
For example
Zhang Zai, a Neo-Confucianist in the Southern Song Dynasty, once said:
"Expanding to the transformation of heaven and earth, the growth of plants and trees,
It is also the nature of my heart.”
It seems that my heart can expand to everything in the world
However, Zhang Zai named his home "Kun Zhai"
Calling himself a "trapped old man"
He argued that no matter good times or bad times
They are all external things
The law of nature is in my heart
So no matter what the external circumstances are
Don't forget the principles of heaven
A gentleman is always in trouble.
Don't blame others
So the more difficult the situation is
The more you hone your moral character
Scholars in the Song Dynasty frequently used "clumsy", "difficult" and "mediocre" to describe themselves.
Mediocrity, humbleness, clumsiness, and hardship are beautiful
Even think that this is a kind of supreme wisdom
This is not a normal mentality.
It just reflects the scholar-official class
In the ill-fated officialdom
It is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain psychological stability
So I worship difficulties, suffering and mediocrity
From abuse and humiliation
Finding a sense of moral superiority
This temporarily suppressed the inner hesitation and doubt
It is unlikely to lead to breakthroughs, exploration and reflection
In the Ming Dynasty
Due to the vicious expansion of imperial autocracy
Reached a new peak
The situation of Confucian scholars is even more humble and dangerous
thus
Their self-deprecation and personality crisis
It further deepens
Let's look at a poem by Chen Xianzhang, a great scholar in the Ming Dynasty:
A trace of spring water and a wisp of smoke,
The natural world
The seven-foot body is not mine
Two rooms, cold and hot, can be moved
You can see
Even water and air
Something so ordinary and invisible
can make Confucian scholars deny their own personality
Even the existence of one's own seven-foot body
All must be denied
This reflects
A more thorough stripping and dissolution of the self
"Two cold and hot seasons are allowed to move" means
No matter how unpredictable the nature of the world is
I let it change
Complete obedience
Don't try to change
So it is called "Ren Tui Qian"
Chen Xianzhang once praised his disciples
"The greatest achievement is to forget oneself, the ultimate achievement is to have no desires"
This repeated emphasis on self-forgetfulness
Of course, it also reflects the spiritual crisis of Ming Dynasty poets
Stronger than the previous generation
Only by integrating more deeply into nature
To avoid pain
But the more typical one is Li Yu's "Song of Poverty and Pleasure"
Let’s see how Li Yu responded
The humiliation and desolation of life
He said:
There is no secret to the way poor people enjoy themselves
Just take a step back
I thought I was poor
There are people in the world who are poorer than me.
I think my situation is low.
There are people in the world who are lower than me.
I think my wife and children are a burden.
There are still many lonely people in the world who cannot get what they want.
Li Yu also gave an example
There was a man sleeping outside
Lots of mosquito bites
But he looks pretty happy.
Others don't understand
He said he was framed.
Imprisonment
Locked hands and feet every day
Cannot move
There were more mosquitoes biting me then than now.
Compared with that time
Life is so happy now.
so
If a person learns to look at things this way
Then the "sea of ​​suffering" will become "a land of happiness"
Li Yu's way of thinking
actually
It is a common method of spiritual victory in Chinese society.
By constantly comparing and downgrading,
Changing objective standards
So as to firmly maintain a
The "I won" attitude
This kind of self-comforting thinking
It is countless times more illusory than Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism.
When Logic Dissolves the Self
At least a grand external order is needed
That is to say, the principles of heaven, the universe, and nature
As a Field of Dissolution of the Self
They are still trying to put individual life
Integrate into a seemingly constant and universal law
Li Yu gave up even this point
Instead, they turned directly to self-hypnosis,
The state of self-soothing
And this point
It is similar to Wang Yangming's philosophy of mind.
Although Yangming's philosophy of mind seems more refined and ingenious
We say that Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism emphasizes the pursuit of knowledge through the investigation of things.
Through the care and understanding of the external natural order
Only in this way can we achieve harmony between the individual mind and the principles of nature.
After all, this is still a rough external standard
Heavenly principles are in all things
People need to reflect and introspect in all things
When it comes to Wang Yangming
He directly put all external natural order
The basis of the objective world
Take it back into people’s hearts
This looks like
Greatly promotes people's initiative in thinking
and autonomy
Let’s look at two famous quotes from Wang Yangming.
He said:
“Man is the heart of heaven, earth, and all things;
The heart is the master of heaven, earth and all things.
The heart is heaven, and when we talk about the heart, all things in heaven and earth are contained in it."
Wang Yangming directly put people's hearts
Ascend to the center of the universe
He didn't say that the human heart is a product of heaven.
But think
Everything in the world is just the unfolding of my heart
This is a very exaggerated self-aggrandizement.
For example, Wang Yangming said:
"A scholar can cure all diseases with just one word: tranquility."
The state of stillness,
As big as Liuhe
It's empty and quiet inside.
No one thing
When I asked him, he had everything he needed.
That is to say, as long as you calm down
Your heart is as vast as the universe.
All truth, all truth
It's all in your heart
No need to seek outside
Compared with the tranquility and tranquility of Song Dynasty Neo-Confucianism,
Compared with the quiet and indifferent temperament
Yangming's philosophy of mind is full of fantasy, intense
Even a combative statement
The following passage is even more magical:
In the quotations
Wang Yangming said: My spiritual
He is the ruler of heaven, earth, ghosts and gods
The sky is not as bright as mine.
Who will look up to him?
The earth has no wisdom from me,
Who will look down upon his depths?
Ghosts and gods do not have my wisdom and intelligence.
Who can tell whether it is good or bad luck?
The gods, ghosts, and everything in the world have left my spiritual wisdom
There would be no heaven, earth, ghosts, gods, and all things.
My spiritual enlightenment is away from the heaven, earth, ghosts, gods, and all things
There is no my wisdom
The meaning of this passage is very straightforward.
It means the depth of heaven and earth
It's all up to my mind to understand and give meaning,
No “My Spiritual Wisdom”
The gods and ghosts of heaven and earth have lost their meaning
It doesn't even exist anymore.
In Chinese culture, which is dominated by self-control, humility and tranquility,
Wang Yangming's passionate, excited and fervent expression
Looks so unusual
This is also why Yangming's philosophy of mind can be used in the contemporary world.
The important reason for the rediscovery
Because on the surface
Wang Yangming said that all truths are contained in your heart
This easily reminds us of Plato's theory of recollection.
When he repeatedly emphasized that human intelligence is omnipresent
This also reminds us of "I think, therefore I am"
Or Western ideas like "man-made laws for nature"
Therefore, many people naturally think that
Yangming's philosophy of mind represents a kind of self-awakening
The wave of personal independence
Even think
This reflects the Ming Dynasty
There are some seeds of a capitalist society.
But this is actually a huge misunderstanding
In fact, many theories
On the surface
They all use some very free and awakening concepts
But when we delve into its conceptual system
You will find that this is actually a false freedom.
So let's not be fooled by superficial words.
The key is how it proves this freedom.
So how did Wang Yangming prove it?
Is all truth in the human heart?
In the "Chuan Xi Lu"
There is a conversation between him and his disciples that goes like this:
The disciples asked him:
If you pursue the best
Just ask your heart
Then I am afraid that it is impossible to exhaust the truth of the world.
Wang Yangming disagreed
He said: The mind is the reason.
There are things in the world that are beyond our hearts
Is it the principle outside of the mind?
that is
Heart and reason are completely unified
There is no thing or principle in the world that is independent of the mind.
The disciple asked again: "Being filial to your father and loyal to your ruler,
Be faithful to friends and be kind to the people
During this period
There are still many truths that need to be constantly understood.
Wang Yangming said: This statement is too misleading.
If a person cannot be loyal, filial, benevolent and righteous
Do I have to seek this truth from others?
In fact, all truths are in your heart.
This heart is not blinded by selfish desires.
You can reach the heavenly principle.
No need to add any knowledge and experience from outside
When a person
With such a heart that is completely in line with the principles of heaven and the way of heaven
Serving parents is filial piety
Serving the king is loyalty
It can be seen
Wang Yangming's core thinking
In fact, it is related to Song Dynasty Neo-Confucianism.
"Preserve the principles of heaven and eliminate human desires"
There is no essential difference
On the surface, Wang Yangming emphasized
You just need to go back to your original intention and do things
You will succeed
This heart naturally has all the truth.
No need to verify externally, seek
However
The content of this heart, the content of conscience
and the criteria for success
It is not something that one discovers on his own.
It was already determined by saints and kings.
That is loyalty, filial piety, benevolence and righteousness.
You can only exert your initiative and subjectivity
The freedom to implement these values
But there is absolutely no freedom to refute, doubt, or deconstruct them.
However
This kind of freedom can only implement established values
Can it still be considered freedom?
Wang Yangming repeatedly emphasized
Loyalty, filial piety, benevolence and righteousness are in people's hearts.
No need to seek outside
This just shows
He is too afraid of these values
Withstand the test of real logic
Therefore, we can only base everything on
They all rely on their own subjective feelings
But this makes this set of values ​​even more illusory.
Rigidity and pedantry
Facing the crisis of loyalty and filial piety
They don't think
The problem with this value itself
But the defense line is retreating more and more
Finally retreat into your own subjective experience
As long as you feel it, it's real
Complete rejection of reality testing
Maintaining faith through self-talk and self-hypnosis
This is exactly the opposite of the history of Christianity.
We know
Early Christian philosophy emphasized faith.
Devaluing rationality
The Church Fathers believed that the Son of God was dead
Later resurrected
Because it's ridiculous
You should believe it anyway.
This view was later summarized as
“Because it’s ridiculous, I believe it”
Scholasticism
Anselm objected.
Using faith to exclude rationality
He advocated the importance of rational argument for religious belief
So he proposed an ontological proof of God's existence
This proof can be summarized as this sentence:
God is the most perfect being
It is impossible to imagine a being more perfect than God.
And because of this
God exists not only in the mind
And in fact there is
Otherwise he would not be perfect.
So God exists
This proof
Although if you think about it carefully, it is quite problematic.
Lack of logic
But he broke through the philosophy of the Godfather
A tradition that rejects empirical and rational testing
Started the trend of rational proof
After the twelfth century
Aristotle's philosophy is revived in Europe
Christian philosophy began to develop
Integrating Greek philosophy into religious beliefs
For example, Thomas Aquinas's five proofs of God
Starting from facts that everyone knows
Proving the existence of God through rational reasoning
For example, the first proof is
Since the movement of all things is always driven by another
Then it must be traced back to an immovable being
As the first mover
This is God
The second proof is
Since everything in the world
There is a reason why I am like this.
Not for that reason
Each reason has its own reason
Then at the end of this chain of cause and effect
There must be an ultimate reason
That is, self-causation
This self-cause is God
This argument of Thomas Aquinas
It looks more convincing
Higher theoretical level
More importantly
He further confirmed
Proving the possibility of faith from a rational perspective
Reason and faith are no longer mutually exclusive
But reconciliation
For example
We mentioned in the previous video
Deism in 17th Century Europe
That is, God created the universe.
But after creation
God will no longer intervene
But let everything
Operate according to the natural laws created by God
Humans can learn, reason, deduce and experiment
Gradually discovered
The laws and rules hidden in nature
Religious beliefs after rational spiritual integration
The beginning of modern Europe
A revolution in all important areas
The development trajectory of Chinese culture
This is the exact opposite of the above process.
for example
Early Confucianism
Although full of that kind of secular utilitarianism
But starting from the actual effect
To prove the legitimacy
Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism
The Three Bonds and Five Constant Virtues were elevated to
The principle of nature that permeates all things
No need for real-world results to prove or verify
In Yangming's philosophy of mind
The principles of heaven are further contracted into the human heart.
You don't even need to comprehend the universe.
Just grasp the inner experience
Completely reject external scrutiny and challenges
This reminds us of a poem from the Cultural Revolution period.
Songs that are popular all over the country
It's called "The Cultural Revolution is Good"
Lyrics from beginning to end
Just keep repeating
The empty slogan "It's good, it's good"
The logic of this repeated self-hypnosis
It is also a closed-off attitude towards Chinese culture.
A clever metaphor
Let’s look at another example
Wang Yangming's discussion on the ultimate conscience
He said:
Knowing is the essence of the mind, the mind will know naturally
that is
Conscience is inherent in the heart itself
No need to seek outside
The heart will know naturally
This seems to be a philosophy of subjectivity.
But then, Wang Yangming said:
Seeing your father, you will know filial piety.
When you see your brother, you know your younger brother.
Seeing a child fall into a well, one naturally feels compassion.
This is conscience, which requires no external help.
If conscience arises,
No more selfish barriers
turn out to be
This conscience is not open and empty.
It does not allow the subject to explore on his own.
But a set
Moral commands and ethical norms that have long been preset
Then Wang Yangming said:
However, ordinary people cannot be free from selfish obstacles.
Therefore, we must use the merits of seeking knowledge and investigating things to overcome selfishness and restore order.
That is, the conscience of the heart is more unobstructed,
To fill the popular
To know
Knowledge leads to sincerity
This means that
Ordinary people always have various selfish obstacles.
Therefore, we must overcome selfishness by studying things to gain knowledge.
Restoring the Law
Then you can keep your heart clean and pure
Let the principles of heaven fill your heart
So no matter how a person does things
It will be ethical
But here comes the problem
Such a person who completely eliminates selfish desires
Wouldn't that make me a completely fake person?
Have you become a puppet and a puppet?
Although Wang Yangming claimed that this kind of conscience and heavenly principles
Everyone has
Natural
But if this conscience is really so natural
Why do we have to continue to use force?
To repeatedly eliminate selfish desires?
This illustrates what Wang Yangming said about original heart and conscience.
It's neither pure nor natural.
Instead, it relies on continuous self-suppression and discipline.
To maintain
His celebration of subjectivity
In the end, it's still in a huge cage.
Pretend to dance freely
Yangming's philosophy of mind
It's like having a surveillance camera implanted in your heart
All external ethical standards
Forcibly saying that it is your conscience
This will eliminate your chances of resistance.
So you can only stare at yourself every day
Keep clearing your mind
Constant self-judgment
I believe everyone still remembers
In our video about "The Courage to Be Disliked"
Ichiro Kishimi
Putting courage at the core of his theory
He believes that the reason you are not free
It is not because of the environment, history, social structure, psychological trauma
It's because you lack the courage to change.
Therefore happiness does not depend on external
It all depends on your choice at this moment
There is no one in the world who really suppresses you
The only thing that really limits you is yourself
Because you have courage in your heart
The biggest problem of human beings is
Always find excuses for your weakness and cowardice
Find external reasons
This is exactly what Wang Yangming said.
A replica of "It is easy to defeat a thief in the mountains, but difficult to defeat a thief in the heart"
This is actually a more thorough and hidden form of discipline.
but
What we discussed above is mainly the part of self-cultivation
In dealing with others and society
Yangming's philosophy of mind
There are some more dangerous elements
We will discuss this further in the next video
That's all for today's video
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "History and Society"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!