In the previous video, we introduced Marx's theory of communism.
After Marx's death
His theories spread throughout the world.
Various different factions developed
What exactly are the differences between these factions?
How much of this aligns with Marx's original statements?
In today's video episode, we'll introduce...
The Great History of Marxism
Europe at the end of the 19th century
People generally believe
Marxism is the most convincing solution to transcend capitalism.
In Germany in the 1890s
This led to the emergence of the Social Democratic Party (SPD).
The party program was drafted by two Marxists, Bernstein and Kautsky.
They both believe
Marx's theory of crisis is wrong.
There is no evidence that capitalism is collapsing or that the middle class is disappearing.
Germany at the end of the 19th century
Instead, it witnessed the growth of the middle class.
The proportion of white-collar workers has increased significantly.
This means we can correct capitalism
To enable more workers to become middle class
No revolution is needed
No need for the dictatorship of the proletariat
Instead
To make wealth distribution more equitable
Therefore, social democracy no longer emphasizes class struggle.
Instead, it emphasizes that workers can ally with the middle class and the bourgeoisie.
Entering Congress
This way, there is no need to resort to violent revolution.
Socialism can also be achieved
Bernstein even said
"Socialism is essentially organized liberalism."
This leads many Marxists to believe
Social democracy is a betrayal of Marx
Because these people are no longer anti-capitalist.
There was no intention to start a revolution.
The goal is simply to propose some improvement policies from Parliament.
To make life a little easier for ordinary people
For example, Lenin criticized Bernstein and Kautsky at that time.
They said they had succumbed to the bourgeoisie.
But the two of them turned around and criticized Lenin.
It is believed that after Lenin came to power
Dissolve the Constituent Assembly and suppress dissent
It is tantamount to a dictatorship
Instead of the democratic path advocated by Marx
They believe that socialism must include democracy.
Otherwise, it could lead to dictatorship.
Kautsky said
"Socialism without democracy is unthinkable." - The Dictatorship of the Proletariat (1918)
Germany's Social Democratic Party has achieved remarkable progress in just 25 years.
The percentage of votes rose from 11% to 34%.
It became the largest party in the German Reichstag at the time.
There are 110 members of parliament
It was the largest Marxist party in all of Europe at the time.
If we look at the Nordic model today
It is actually also about pursuing social democracy.
And Bernie Sanders, a recent American politician.
With recently appointed New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani
They all claim to be social democrats.
The so-called democratic socialism is about saying that...
It is immoral and wrong that the wealthiest 0.1% of people in this country possess almost as much wealth as the bottom 90%.
This is unethical and wrong; owning almost as much wealth as the bottom 90% is also wrong.
Why I call myself a democratic socialist.
It originates from the definition of Dr. King, Decades ago.
He said, "It doesn't matter whether you call it democracy or democratic socialism."
This country must better distribute wealth so that all of God's children can benefit.
My focus is on dignity and addressing income inequality.
Therefore, many people mistakenly believed that Mamdani was elected.
This means New York will be ruled by communists.
This is actually a lack of understanding.
The difference between social democracy and communism
Social democracy follows the path of parliamentary democracy.
Instead of the revolutionary path
Let's take a look next.
Leninism that follows the revolutionary line
After the October Revolution of 1917
The Bolshevik Party, led by Lenin, came to power.
Lenin actually made many progressive and innovative contributions after taking office.
For example, making the Soviet Union the first country with an 8-hour workday.
In addition to freedom of speech and freedom of the press
Because there was no freedom of speech during the Tsarist era.
Now I suddenly enjoy this freedom
Many newspapers and magazines are selling well.
On every street corner, you can see ordinary people engaging in public discussions.
Russian land becomes public property
The quantity produced is also determined by the needs of the social collective.
It also introduced modern medical care and unemployment insurance.
Many of these measures do indeed align with Marx's proposals.
Therefore, when the Soviet Union was first established
Many leftists around the world believe
Is communism really going to be realized?
Like Helen Keller in the United States
And Picasso from France.
They all publicly supported Soviet socialism.
However, Lenin had two original ideas that Marx did not have.
The first is the party's centralized power.
Centralize power as much as possible
Moreover, it should be centered on political parties.
Why is the Party's role so important?
Because Lenin believed
The working class is not as Marx described.
Because of being oppressed by capitalism
Class consciousness arises spontaneously
The masses need a top-down political party to educate them.
Tell the workers that they are an oppressed class.
Only then will people have self-awareness.
Therefore, to change society, one must first seize political power.
If you don't seize power first
The capitalist class may seize the opportunity to retaliate.
Can laborers spontaneously develop class consciousness?
This is a question that Marxism has long debated.
If you believe that workers need an external voice to guide them...
Only then will they realize that they are being oppressed.
So you're more inclined towards Leninism.
If you believe that workers don't need partisan guidance
They can organize themselves spontaneously.
That is, it leans more towards anarchism.
The second concept Lenin coined was "revolutionary vanguard".
Lenin believed that for a revolution to succeed
We cannot wait until we have broad public support before taking action.
That's too slow.
A small group of people must rush out first.
Only then will the crowd follow.
In this vanguard team
We need the most talented and revolutionary-savvy people to lead us.
Therefore, Lenin's vision of social transformation
It is not a team composed of diverse voices.
Because there was no party guidance
The masses are a disorganized mess
I don't know how to organize
It must be led by a group of professionals who understand revolution.
Lenin believed that only the Bolshevik Party was capable of this task.
But in January 1918
The Bolshevik Party in the Constituent Assembly of Russia
They failed to secure a majority of seats.
Lenin was very surprised
Originally thought that after the revolution succeeded
His party would naturally receive majority support.
But in reality, the majority of Russia's population at that time were farmers.
Farmers are more supportive of another left-wing political party, the Socialist Revolutionary Party (SR).
Therefore, Lenin used counter-revolution as a pretext.
The Constituent Assembly was dissolved by force.
He said, "The Soviet Republic is a higher form of democracy than the bourgeois republic of a constitutional parliament."
To put it bluntly, it's about establishing one-party rule and personal dictatorship.
From democracy to autocracy, suppression of opposition parties
But Lenin's reason was...
The success of the revolution is the highest principle
It doesn't matter if the methods are undemocratic.
This sparked discontent among many intellectuals at the time.
This is considered to violate Marx's ideas.
Because what Marx wanted was the dictatorship of the proletariat.
It is the self-liberation of laborers
Like the Paris Commune without party affiliation
Zasulich, a revolutionary who had corresponded with Marx, criticized him.
This is an anti-proletarian dictatorship.
Beginning in 1918, Lenin established the secret police organization, the "Committee for the Extremist Campaign" (Cheka).
Arrest all those who might oppose the revolution
Mass arrests and shootings
At the Ninth Congress of the Russian Communist Party in 1920
Lenin eradicated trade union autonomy and workers' rights
At this point, we can see a clear pattern.
Lenin first regarded his party as representing the people.
Representing the interests of the proletariat
Therefore, anyone who opposes him is an enemy.
They must all be eradicated
More than 30,000 people were executed within a year.
The Party also encourages children to report their own family members.
1920s
The Soviet government implemented a strict censorship system for publications.
Many books deemed to contain harmful ideas were banned.
Many philosophical books by Kant, Schopenhauer, Descartes, Nietzsche
Even Marx's works were banned.
Because Marx himself opposed state censorship.
So we see a very strange result.
A country that claims to be Marxist
Books by Marx opposing state censorship were banned.
During the same period
Lenin began to militarize labor and promote large-scale industrialization.
His most famous slogan is
"Communism is Soviet power plus the electrification of the whole country." -Our Foreign and Domestic Position and Party Tasks (1920)
In order to complete this plan
The state began to force labor
Lenin said
Russian habits
Without external coercion
They will slack off and not complete their work.
The result was a system that oppressed workers even more than capitalism.
What a coincidence!
1921
The Soviet Union was experiencing a drought
Caused a great famine
Many farmers have nothing to eat.
In the end, they had no choice but to resort to cannibalism.
According to statistics, more than 5 million people have died.
However, the key event that led many Marxists to break with the Soviet Union
It was actually the Kronstadt Rebellion that broke out in March 1921.
Sailors and workers in Petrograd went on strike
Demand to stop the reign of terror
They said
"Russian workers have gone from being slaves to capitalists to slaves to state-owned enterprises."
15 requirements were put forward
Like restoring freedom of speech
Freedom of the press
Release political prisoners
Overthrow one-party dictatorship
Return to Soviet democracy
The uprising lasted 16 days.
The Soviet authorities characterized the incident as a counter-revolutionary rebellion.
They are people who betrayed the revolution.
The rebellion was suppressed by the Red Army.
Thousands of people died
This repression became a key turning point in the Soviet Union's shift from communism to totalitarianism.
Lenin even said directly at the party congress
"It's better to discuss things with rifles than to argue with the opposition."
This disheartened many leftists who had previously supported the Soviet Union.
For example, the well-known anarchist Emma Goldman wrote a book
It's called "My Disillusionment in Russia".
She said frankly inside
"I saw before me the Bolshevik State, formidable, crushing every constructive revolutionary effort." - My Disillusionment in Russia (1923)
British philosopher Bertrand Russell
He was also a supporter of socialism at the time.
He made a triumphant visit to the Soviet Union in 1920.
He also had a one-hour conversation with Lenin himself.
This trip greatly disappointed him.
After returning to China, he wrote a book.
It's called "The Practice and Theory of the Bolsheviks".
Bertrand Russell compared the Soviet Union to a religion.
He said the Bolshevik Party had become indifferent to scientific empiricism.
Moreover, it is a form of intelligent suicide.
The revolution reached 1924
It is estimated that 20% of the entire Russian population has already been sacrificed.
Compared to the Tsar's centuries of rule
The Soviet regime killed even more people in just 20 years.
This series of disasters
This forced Lenin to finally implement a new economic policy.
Return to market mechanism
Allow farmers to freely buy and sell grain
Instead of being levied by the state
To put it bluntly, it means we're about to embark on a capitalist market economy.
This allowed Soviet production to gradually return to pre-World War I levels.
As a result, we went in a big circle.
Socialism is becoming like capitalism
Becoming rich by exploiting laborers and farmers
Therefore, many Marxists believe
The Soviet Union was essentially a "party-state capitalist" system.
Instead of socialism
The Soviet government also began hiring bourgeois individuals as "red managers."
Officials are becoming increasingly corrupt.
Lenin himself noticed this.
The person he cared about most was Stalin.
Lenin wrote in his will
If Stalin held power
Unable to exercise power prudently and effectively
His last words before his death
He said the machine was out of control.
After Lenin's death
Two opposing factions emerged in the Soviet Union.
Trotsky and Stalin
At that time, Stalin displayed a strong ambition for personal dictatorship.
Trotsky criticized the party for heading towards dictatorship.
As a result, they were surrounded and attacked from Stalin's flank.
What are Trotsky and Stalin arguing about?
Trotsky proposed a theory of "permanent revolution".
The socialist revolution is believed to begin on the basis of one country.
But it cannot be completed on this basis.
Because any revolution is merely one link in an international chain.
Capitalism should be viewed as a world system
Rather than a country's economic system
Therefore, for the Soviet Union to successfully achieve communism...
We must unite with other countries
Marx repeatedly emphasized
Socialism must be an international movement
This is the only way to ensure the free flow of technological productivity in the global market.
If a communist revolution only occurs in one country
If all other countries in the world were still capitalist
That would be tantamount to a communist country being surrounded by hundreds of capitalist countries.
As long as they collectively resist or unite to intervene
This could cause the revolution to fail.
Therefore, it is not feasible to practice socialism only within one country.
But Stalin criticized Trotsky.
It is believed that even if revolutions do not occur in other countries
The Soviet Union was able to successfully develop socialism on its own.
Especially since Soviet productivity was still very low at the time.
Ordinary people can't even take care of themselves.
Where would they find the time and energy to help other countries start revolutions?
The Soviet Union should have pursued self-sufficiency first.
By 1927
Stalin then expelled Trotsky and other opposition figures from the party.
Many people were sentenced to three to five years in prison.
Trotsky, on the other hand, was forced into exile.
He fled to Mexico
Self-organized Fourth International
Trying to tell the world Stalin's true colors
There are no crimes in history more terrible in terms of their motives and methods of execution.
It was more horrifying than the Moscow Trials of Zinoviev-Kamenev and Pyatakov-Radek.
These trials did not originate from communism, nor from socialism, but from Stalinism.
In other words, it is the irresponsible despotism of the bureaucracy over the people.
This is now my principal task: to reveal the truth.
To show and demonstrate that the real criminals are hiding under the cloak of the accusers.
As a result in 1940
Trotsky at home in Mexico
He was assassinated by an assassin sent by Stalin (Ramón Mercader).
His funeral in Mexico was attended by 300,000 people.
Trotskyism also became an important school of Marxism.
The recently emerging Taiwanese revolutionary communist organization, "Spark," claims to be a Trotskyist organization.
Trotskyism is characterized by
It is neither Stalinism nor social nationalism.
Instead, they believed that a bottom-up "workers' council" should be established to manage the economy.
Many leftists in the 20th century who were disillusioned with the Soviet Union
They all turned to Trotskyism
Like the French surrealist writer André Breton.
Or perhaps it was the American philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre.
They all once admired Trotskyism
Another person we know well also once joined the Trotskyists.
This person is Chiang Ching-kuo
At that time, the Kuomintang revered the Three Principles of the People proposed by Sun Yat-sen.
Nationalism, democracy, and people's livelihood
The people's livelihood here is actually socialism.
Sun Yat-sen said: We can “learn from Marx’s ideas”, but we cannot “use Marx’s methods”.
This means facing up to the problem of economic inequality.
But do not engage in class struggle.
1925 to 1937
Chiang Ching-kuo was sent to study in the Soviet Union.
This period coincided with the struggle between Trotsky and Stalin.
Chiang Ching-kuo read a quote from Trotsky: "Burn the old world with the torch of revolution."
Deeply moved
However, because his stance was close to Trotskyism
After Stalin came to power, he sent Chiang Ching-kuo to work as a miner in a coal mine.
Later, Chiang Ching-kuo wrote in "My Days in the Soviet Union"
"During this period, although I suffered physical and mental trauma, I also saw clearly the true nature of the Comintern and the true face of the Soviet Communist Party and the Chinese Communist Party." - Chiang Ching-kuo, *My Days in the Soviet Union*
After World War II
The Soviet Union also achieved a few accomplishments that other countries could hardly match.
Like the success of the space program
This demonstrates that centrally mobilized resources can indeed accelerate technological development.
1950 to 1965
The Soviet Union's economic growth rate was 3.4%.
The US only has 2.3%.
But it was also because of the frantic economic expansion and the arms race with the United States.
This led to widespread poverty and national bankruptcy in the Soviet Union.
It finally disintegrated in 1991.
Many people would say that the collapse of the Soviet Union proved that communism had failed.
This is the end of history.
Capitalism triumphed.
The response from many leftists today is
Yes, the Soviet Union failed.
Because the Soviet Union was not, in the sense, a communist country as Marx described it.
Marx did not advocate for a one-party state to centralize power.
His preferred models were the Paris Commune and the British cooperative movement.
Both are democratic controls from the bottom up by the people.
This is the association of free individuals mentioned in Capital.
on the other hand
The Soviet Union was essentially very similar to capitalism.
They all exploit the working class in order to boost the economy.
However, the Soviet Union was dominated by an authoritarian government.
Those who disobey will be sent to labor camps.
Marx had actually criticized this authoritarian communist system.
Call them
Barracks communism
This is not the communism that Marx envisioned.
Finally, the Soviet Union had various forms of state censorship and suppression of freedom.
Soviet films could only tell stories that conformed to the national ideology.
Many of Stalin's political enemies were eliminated.
Later it will disappear from the photos.
For example, this photo
Trotsky, who was originally next to Lenin
It was removed in later versions.
However, Marx experienced a lack of freedom of speech during his early years as a journalist.
Therefore, he highly values ​​people's freedom of expression.
Able to showcase one's creativity
These problems have all become apparent
The Soviet Union was actually very far from the communism that Marx described.
The Soviet Union's communist experiment produced different reactions in Europe.
One of the most influential branches is called the Frankfurt School.
In 1923, a group of Jewish intellectuals
A social research institute was established in Frankfurt, Germany.
This school of thought has produced many philosophers.
Among them are the renowned Adorno, Horkheimer, Benjamin, and Markus.
At that time, these intellectuals saw the Soviet Union heading towards totalitarianism.
This prompted them to rethink the way out for socialism.
In 1927, Benjamin personally visited Moscow.
Seeing the Soviet Union completely shattered my illusions.
He wrote in his Moscow Diary:
"To be a Communist in a state where the proletariat rules means completely giving up your private independence." - Walter Benjamin, Moscow Diary (1927)
Fascism rose during World War II
Adorno fled Germany to the United States because he was Jewish.
In his book *The Dialectics of Enlightenment*
Questioning Marx's Enlightenment and progressive views
Marx believed that historical development could be achieved through class struggle.
A happy ending that leads to a communist society.
But history has proven the effectiveness of the Enlightenment movement in the West over the past 200 years.
Not emphasizing rationality and technological development
It did not lead humanity towards a more civilized direction.
Instead, it has regressed to a barbaric society.
Because Nazi concentration camps were the epitome of rationality.
Nazi officers placed great emphasis on scientific management and maximizing efficiency.
This is inherently very bizarre.
Therefore, we must ask further questions.
Why were German laborers at that time...?
They are clearly victims of capitalist economic crises.
However, they did not choose to turn to the left.
Instead, they turned to the far right and embraced fascism.
Why didn't laborers live up to Marx's predictions?
It will develop class consciousness and resistance to capitalism
This is a very important question.
Because every time capitalism experiences an economic crisis...
A large group of workers will embrace the far right.
Isn't that exactly the opposite of what Marx predicted?
The economic crisis did not become an opportunity for a communist revolution.
Instead, it has led the world further toward fascism.
The Frankfurt School sought to answer this question.
This also highlights the masses in a capitalist society
In fact, they are just as blind as the masses under communist regimes.
People often think of capitalism as the opposite of totalitarianism.
And without noticing
It is precisely the inequality of capitalism
It created fascist totalitarianism
I thought only communist regimes would become totalitarian.
After World War II
Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union
A nuclear weapons crisis has emerged.
Many people believe
Neither the United States nor the Soviet Union were ideal choices.
Young people in the 1960s
Tired of the US waging war around the world
The anti-Vietnam War movement, the anti-culture movement, the Paris 1968 student movement, and the Prague Spring emerged.
At this time
Markus Seymour of the Frankfurt School became a leader of the social movements of the time.
He pointed out
Western capitalist countries
With the totalitarian Soviet Union
They're all doing the same thing.
They are all manipulating the masses.
To prevent workers from questioning the legitimacy of the system.
The Soviet Union's methods were rather clumsy.
It is clearly state coercion.
However, Western capitalism employs more sophisticated methods.
It makes people internalize false needs.
This makes it seem less like coercion.
For example, people no longer feel enslaved by their work or their bosses.
Because capitalism creates false demand.
Make workers feel they must work hard to earn money
Only then can these needs be met.
Like going on a shopping spree after get off work
Traveling abroad
binge-watching TV series
So-called leisure and entertainment
In fact, it's forced entertainment instilled by capitalism.
We don't know if this is what we really want.
Because we are immersed in all kinds of capitalist advertising and propaganda from birth.
These advertising and marketing
Some false demand was created.
People unconsciously internalize these values.
I believe this is my real need.
turn out
Genuine demand was suppressed by false demand.
that's why
Even if we buy the goods we want
Even after buying it, we still felt unsatisfied.
Because that's not what we really want at all.
Markus called this
One-dimensional Men
Therefore, Markus said
True liberation is the liberation of human desires.
However, this leaves behind a question that has been the subject of much debate.
Who can determine what humanity's true needs are?
Does it mean that Marxists have the final say?
Even if I've been brainwashed by capitalism
So what if you like buying designer brands?
As long as I'm happy.
What makes you think this is a false demand?
These issues are still topics of debate within Marxism.
Because the Frankfurt School influenced Marxist thought throughout the 20th century.
So in today's universities
Department of Social Sciences, Department of Humanities
They will still treat these people's works as required reading.
The Chinese Civil War in 1949
Mao Zedong defeated Chiang Kai-shek
The Kuomintang fled to Taiwan
China became a country ruled by the Communist Party.
This year saw a significant shift in the global power landscape.
Because at that time, China had 540 million people.
It's like suddenly 540 million more people living under communism.
However, China's situation was very similar to that of the Soviet Union.
China's industrialization level was low at that time
Most of them are farmers
2.5% (landlords) of the population owned 40% of the country's land.
Therefore Mao Zedong believed
The Communist Party's primary task is to fight landlords and overthrow local tyrants.
Until 1971
95% of the arable land was allocated to 70,000 rural communes.
1950s
The CCP's Suppression of Counter-Revolutionaries
At least 710,000 people were executed and 2 million were imprisoned.
Beginning in 1958
In order to surpass Britain and catch up with the United States
Mao Zedong launched the Great Leap Forward
National large-scale steel chain
Increase the output value of heavy industry
The problem is that the Communist Party lacks experience in industrial planning.
This triggered a series of disasters.
60 million people must be transferred from their original jobs to steelmaking.
Every household melted down all the useful steel products.
Until the mid-1960s
China's material life has only just begun to improve.
Large-scale public health and infrastructure construction
This increased the national average life expectancy from 40 to 64 years within 20 years.
In 1966, Mao Zedong began a large-scale purge within the Party.
Launching the Cultural Revolution
Many young people were sent to rural areas for re-education.
They should be taught to spend more time with farmers and nature.
Mao Zedong said: Read less theory and practice more.
Reading too many books is harmful.
Broad knowledge is not as good as "Redology" (the study of the Dream of the Red Chamber).
Just read Xiaohongshu
During this period
Mao Zedong's personality cult reached a new level.
Even Stalin couldn't compare.
Even abroad
Mao Zedong also became the most influential communist revolutionary in the world.
From Western left-wing student movements
to Indonesia and Nepal
You'll see Mao Zedong's fanatical followers everywhere.
Why is this happening?
Because after World War II
Many colonized countries gained independence.
Approximately 90 new countries were established.
These Asian and African countries gained independence
Facing a problem
They are in the economic market
Companies that are still highly dependent on their colonial mother countries
So although it is independent in form
But in reality
These large corporations still wield considerable power in the region.
This led to these countries developing a particular aversion to capitalism after gaining independence.
I have a particular aversion to capitalism
This is considered to be the lingering poison of Western imperialism.
1955
The Bandung Conference was held in Indonesia by 29 Asian and African countries.
Resisting American and Soviet colonialism
Liao Wen-yi, a pro-independence activist who was in exile overseas at the time, also represented Taiwan at the event.
This is the first time in history.
Without the participation of colonial powers
Asian and African countries discuss international affairs on their own
The CCP saw this opportunity at the time.
Zhou Enlai was dispatched
Reshaping the diplomatic image of the new China
Emphasizing the need for the Third World to unite
At that time, Mao Zedong was on the international stage
It criticizes Soviet totalitarianism on the left and American imperialism on the right.
Many third-world countries believe
China has shown all of humanity a third way.
1959
Du Bois, an intellectual from the American Black movement, personally visited Mao Zedong in China.
During the 1968 Paris student movement in France
Many students even held up posters of Mao Zedong.
French philosopher Badiou still identifies as a Maoist to this day.
I believe that the Cultural Revolution was the most important political event of the second half of the 20th century.
This incident is not a continuation of Stalin's legacy.
This presents a clear contradiction with the Stalinist approach to building a socialist state.
Because a question that originally belonged to the party was immediately put into public discussion.
And it was elevated to the level of the masses.
The older generation of French leftists
They still hold some fond feelings towards China.
Therefore, rather than saying that the CCP is communism...
Rather, it's more accurate to say that the CCP used communism for self-marketing.
Under the guise of upholding justice for weaker nations
This is to gain the favor of Third World countries.
Finally in 1971
Successfully supported by many third-world countries
China has regained its seat in the United Nations.
Deng Xiaoping at the United Nations General Assembly in 1974
Even tell the whole world
If China becomes an imperialist power in the future
We should overthrow it together.
Deng Xiaoping's speech at the United Nations in 1974
Deng Xiaoping's reform and opening up after the 1980s
The claim is that some people should get rich first.
Gradually achieve common prosperity
This is essentially taking the route through the capital market.
However, the Chinese model cannot be understood using Western capitalism.
For example, land ownership in China
It is in the hands of the Communist Party.
China wants to engage in real estate and land speculation.
It is easier than in Western capitalist countries
This kind of party-state controlled capitalism
This is unimaginable in the West.
Now let's answer.
Does China conform to Marx's vision of communism?
First, the CCP's one-party dictatorship model
Closer to Leninism than Marxism
The main body of the Chinese revolution was the peasantry, not the proletariat.
But Marx believed that revolution should be a proletarian democracy.
So at the starting point
The situation in China is already different from what Marx had predicted.
Next is the transformation strategy.
Mao Zedong particularly emphasized the role of poor peasants
He said, "Peasants have a greater revolutionary spirit than the proletariat."
Marx's original vision of communism
It is necessary to first accumulate capitalist technological productivity.
Only then can the whole society achieve equitable wealth.
However, China has not experienced capitalism.
In addition to China's large population
Many things can be solved simply by having more people involved.
It doesn't matter if there is no technological innovation.
This exceeded Marx's original expectations.
Furthermore, according to Marx's theory
Once communism is achieved, the state apparatus will no longer be needed.
Therefore, Mao Zedong mentioned in "On the Ten Major Relationships":
The Communist Party will one day perish.
They also said our mission was to hasten its demise.
This is what Mao Zedong himself said.
The Communist Party must perish one day.
This aligns with Marx's statement.
Because in a truly free society
There is no need for a political party to govern.
The people can govern themselves democratically.
Marxism also emphasizes anti-colonialism and anti-imperialist aggression.
Therefore, Mao Zedong repeatedly supported anti-imperialist struggles around the world.
When the February 28 Incident broke out in Taiwan in 1947
Mao Zedong published the following statement in the Liberation Daily:
I support the struggle of the Taiwanese people against Chiang Kai-shek and the Kuomintang.
We support Taiwan independence.
Support Taiwan establishing its own country as it demands.
It turns out that Mao Zedong was one of the earliest pro-Taiwan independence figures in China, supporting Taiwanese independence.
Therefore, in summary
Mao Zedong Thought does indeed align with some of Marx's ideas.
Such as the necessity for the demise of the Communist Party and the resistance against imperialist aggression.
However, the current CCP has taken the exact opposite path.
Therefore, it is not true Marxism.
This episode introduces various schools of Marxism.
From the beginning of social democracy that followed a parliamentary approach
Then to Leninism with the Party at its core
Then there's the totalitarian Stalin and Mao Zedong.
We will find
The development of the entire 20th century actually strayed further and further from Marx's original intentions.
The common perception is that "communism equals totalitarianism".
It actually originated from the model pioneered by Lenin.
Instead of Marx's ideas
So if you are a true Marxist
You should oppose those totalitarian regimes that call themselves communist even more.
However, a minority of left-wing individuals still defend the Soviet Union.
For example, the well-known British left-wing historian Hobsbawm
In a 1994 interview, he said
If the Soviet Union could establish a true communist state
Then the millions of people who suffered under the Stalin regime might have died for a reason.
Do people now say, "We shouldn't have had World War II"?
Because more people died in World War II than during Stalin's reign of terror?
That's equivalent to saying, "So what comes down to is saying that..."
If we can create a bright future, then the radiant tomorrow has actually been created.
That would justify the loss of 15 to 20 million lives.
Yes.
This is exactly what people said about World War I and World War II.
Such people are called "tank leftists" (or "tank leftists").
These are the leftists who would support authoritarian governments using tanks to suppress the people.
After the 2008 financial crisis
Suddenly, interest in Marx has been rekindled worldwide.
People began to debate whether capitalism was failing.
It has led to a huge gap between the rich and the poor.
Making it unaffordable for people to buy houses
This leaves the new generation without hope for the future.
The development of AI and automation in recent years
This has also prompted many leftists to rethink their views.
Perhaps communism might actually be realized this time.
Because future technologies will allow AI and machines to handle a large number of jobs.
Humans will then have more leisure time to develop their abilities.
This is the communism that Marx originally envisioned.
To achieve this vision
Future societies may have to implement unconditional basic income.
Otherwise, it would lead to mass unemployment and an economic crisis.
This would actually fulfill Marx's prediction.
There will be fewer and fewer jobs that a robot cannot do, or cannot do better than a human.
I believe that ultimately we will have to implement some form of universal basic income.
I don't think we're going to have a choice.
To understand Marx in the 21st century
The best approach is to return to Marx's own ideas.
Only then can we find a way to transcend capitalism.