沒有問題,我現在就過書單了對於書單有興趣的人,我現在一個一個的過這裡的排名其實是隨便排的但是稍微還是有點意義的第一本書人樂神話 The Medical Amendment這個書應該是所有人都聽過了我這個沒聽過的,看這個視頻好不好 看看在哪里,潮圣,Mythical Memem.第一第二本都已经发视频介绍了Just for fun,这是Lindes的制作第一部是The mythical MememSoftware engineering的bible这两个应该不需要太多的废话了Amazon找的很好找Amazon直接的Mythical Memem 23元拿到手11元不要钱了现在好便宜了11元到手第三本是Code这本书我很喜欢它全称是Code The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software最近刚刚出了新版我都没有买到新版手上的是旧版的看到吧 Where is the head of this two? Here. OK. The hidden language of computer hardware and software, CODE. Writer Charles Patzler is a genius who writes books. So if you have the ability to read the original English version, please read the original English version. Because his expression is quite good. As a book about technology, it is told to you in the way of telling a story. So if you have a certain ability to read English, I recommend you read this book. This book does not talk about a very specific point of technology. It allows you to feel the whole evolution of the computer from scratch. At first, it was a small thing like a bulb. The bulb, the bulb, and then some simple lines. Then the bulb, and then the most original "and" and "or". Then slowly, slowly, it starts to get a little more complicated. how to handle the H bits, and then it gradually gets complicated. The process is gradually coming to an end. He doesn't say anything particularly complicated at the end. Because he just makes history visual. 第四版《圖靈的秘密》這本書就很有意思為什麼呢?它是同一個作的當初我是怎麼結束要這本書的?這本書嗎?我是在學校圖書館有一種看到的《圖靈的秘密》它的英文名字更好聽一點因為這個作者就是個聰明人嘛叫The Anotext TouringAnotext為什麼呢?是因為它這本書裡面其實講的就是圖靈的那篇論文 It is the beginning of computer science, and it is the source of the 1937 paper "A Guided Tour" by Allen Turing. "A Guided Tour Through Allen Turing's Historical Papers on Computability and Turing Machines" The paper in the 30th century of the 20th century defined the concept of the calculator and the calculable. That is, all the theory of the calculator is based on this paper. But he didn't just talk about this paper in a boring way. He put the life of the calculator and this paper 掺杂的一起讲,一边讲图灵的故事,一边在讲这篇论文的内容图灵人生很精彩,大家应该都知道所有的这些加归色底的都是原文那篇论文里面的每一句话,它都给你慢慢地解释下来这就是为什么叫做annotate这边它等于说是annotate,在整一个论文上面加上annotation He was very impressive. I was old when I read this book. I don't know how many times I have read it. I have read it hundreds of times. I printed this paper and printed it out. It was very interesting to look at it in the form of a pair. I feel that it will be very interesting to take this book to capture the life of a leader. 但是图灵的故事已经被拍了不少电影了魔法游戏对对对The End of the TuringOK08年的22块钱不贵好吧我买的是多少也差不多是这个价 I bought it in a bookstore. Ok, the fifth book. I don't need to say more about this. UNIX. The Art of UNIX Programming. If you are watching my videos seriously, you should be able to see the many UNIX topics I have mentioned. 虽然都是在批判他们了,但是也不算真的批判。UNIX的一些观念,它只是当时的观念,有历史局限性。但是UNIX也有很多观念是有很多理念,因为你想想它叫做艺术,为什么?这个ARTS,因为它提到了很多就是一种理念上的东西,它是通用到如今的。 Although we don't use Unix anymore, we use Linus. Linus is also based on the art of Unix. Just like Linus said in this book, in this book, Linus said, 整一个Linux的系统开发,它就是整个设计风格基本上就是由Unix的风格它的艺术,它的哲学理念形成出来的你看了这个的话,你很多东西你就不用看我的视频了我的视频有好多视频其实也类似这种说东西我看看Unix哲学第一版Unix哲学 "unis哲学""unis哲学"我到处提到"unis哲学"好不好"unis哲学"这东西非常值得但是我提到的只是很少的一部分这本书很厚的也不算很厚吧相对来说比较厚里面提到的东西我没提到的更多这本"软件设计的哲学"这本东西就有点意思了这本东西是我看看我忘记书放在哪里了只有书皮还在书皮还在 The philosophy of software design. I know this book is actually a book by a professor, Johann Osterholt. He and the author of Clean Code had a one-on-one PK. I think the idea of "scratching" someone's software is a better and more reasonable idea. Anyway, I read the whole process of "scratching" him. I totally agree with John Oster's point of view. I have rarely seen anyone who can make my point of view so agreeable. So I decided to read his book. I was going to buy the original version, but the editor of the People's Post office found me and said he wanted to send me some books. I said, "Okay, this book is from the People's Post office. Send me this book." He sent it to me. A Philosophy of Software Design, version 2, 2021. I think this book is good. He didn't talk about the very red-lighted things. He would directly talk about the very specific design ideas. He also pointed out some problems with current design. I think his cover is quite good to convey the feeling of his book. Now we have a lot of software design messes. We have to make these messes smooth. How can we make software design smoother? It's not just this, it's a very thin and interesting design. It discusses many of the reasons why software is problematic. I've talked about this in my video. The dark mode is very similar to the concept I mentioned earlier. The complexity of the structure, the complexity of the software structure, the complexity of the hidden complexity, in theory, a dark mode and a light mode are not just to turn the word from black to white, but to turn the background from white to black. Why is it so difficult to do? Why can't so many software do it? And there are still many places that are wrong. This is because of the complexity of the design. When you develop it, you don't notice the complexity. It will bite you in the back. OK, next one. The cross-border red hook. I've mentioned this thing many times in recent videos. I feel that I have already lost the theory of red hooks. If you don't want to write code in your life, you want to know a little bit about what you do, or how to make something successful, how to get it successful, and have a more systematic understanding, you must learn the Red Hook theory.這個怎麼說 If the myth of man is the Bible of software engineering, the Bible of project management is the myth of man, and the Bible of product management is the theory of red cross, I personally feel that these two books are two Bibles. The more you interact with things, the more you will think that this theory is really awesome. Just like the more projects you participate in, the more you will think that the myth of man is really amazing. This is a god-like myth. No wonder this person can win the Tulin Award. Think about it. What does it mean for a project manager to win the Tulin Award? To a certain extent, he is a god. He really hasn't missed it. He's always been right. He's always been right about the Hong Kong theory. The eighth book, Platform Revolution, is a bit of a private matter. There are many platforms like this. Platform evolution. It doesn't really have a deep meaning. It's like a systematic summary of a platform-based service, a platform-based system. For example, we say that e-commerce systems are platform-based. Anyway, you are performing on stage, it's a platform. Even YouTube is a platform. We creators create, you watch. 它只是一个platform,它只是一个舞台platform revolution这本书平台叫什么?平台革命,ok?平台革命这本书它就是它是我见过的,解释的非常具体的不是三言模式,它解释了这个平台运作的各种细节这本书platform revolution对焦有问题,算了,我读给你们看,听吧 For example, the first chapter is Network Effect. It explains the basic network effects. How do you get the network effect? The network effect is a common stage that allows a vast number of consumers and other producers to be integrated to form a network effect. The next chapter is Architecture. 怎么样设计一个成功的平台有什么原则你要考虑到什么scanability你要考虑到一些什么监管的问题反正很多细节他这里讲的很细的基本上你可以把这个当做是一个教科书在这里等于说是如果你想要做一个平台类的软件或者是服务或者系统或者是什么产品 You should know all these. The next chapter is disruption. How does a platform replace traditional service methods? We develop a platform, we need to kill our competitors. What are the weaknesses of our competitors? What are the advantages of the platform that can kill them? Anyway, it's very detailed. Including the 8th chapter, governance. how to manage the platform. When the platform is scaled up, you can't control many things by hand. You need to be systematic. You need to have certain rules and rules. There must be a certain process that can automatically handle some common problems. How to measure what is important, this is also very important. Because in many cases, you may not know what is important, you may not think that the number of users is more important. Sometimes you think that the memory is the most important thing. What is important, how do you study it, etc. 反正说的很详细,这整本书就基本上是一个手把手的教你如果你要做这种软件的开发,你要开发这种产品你基本上可以买它来查漏补缺OK,09,这个就厉害了这个就是唯一的一个跟计算机一毛钱关系都没有了我还提到过,我在哪个视频里面提到过在切片里面提到了看什么书,这里面有一本关于供应链的书 采购以供应链管理这本是OK红宝说它其实是有好几个颜色它有宝红这个人他是出了好几本的一本红色的一本绿色的一本黄色的这三本这三本但是其实它这三本互相之间有点重复的地方感觉它就是可能是为了 刷稿费,他会重复的提到什么东西如果只看一本的话,就看这本红色的红宝书我为什么喜欢这本书?这本书跟机上机真的是一毛钱关系都没有但是它很神奇的是,你读这本书里面你真的会感觉他讲的这些东西太通用了 Although he is only talking about the public domain, the author is mixed in the high-end manufacturing industry, which seems to be related to the semiconductor. When he was talking about these concepts, he was using some of the manufacturing industries he had participated in. You see the sub-title, from the perspective of an intern, there are many examples in the whole book. What he said is not boring at all. All of them are examples, all real examples. From the real examples, you will feel that you will have a very magical feeling. Although what he said, all of the examples he gave are all manufacturing, are other industries, but you can put it into the computer industry, In the software industry, many things are exactly the same. You feel like it's telling you something. And I've done notes. I made notes. I used the software, I used the app to read it. Because I made a lot of notes. I think I made more than 200 notes. Every word is very touching. I'll write it down. Look at my book, Read Note. I wrote a bunch of books and notebooks. These are all my works. They are so long. This is the first one. I have written so many notebooks in this book. Even though I still have no knowledge at all about the engineering chain and manufacturing industry, I have learned a lot from it. I remember I wrote a recommendation. OK, let me read it. This series is about supply chains, and most of the examples are in high-end manufacturers. But the reason for this series is that the range of use from agriculture to the Internet, from CEO to programmer, is not too bad. 高端制造业作为20世纪第三次工业革命爆发后人才最集中的地方一群顶级天才围绕着最新的技术工具和世界格局经过几十年的尝试和改进提炼出来了一系列理论工具和实践手法着实是人类智慧的精华,不学习太可惜刘宝宏是一个很优秀的讲师,除了啰嗦一点不过他的重点知识重复三遍也是可以理解的 他能够用很通俗很轻松很接地气的语言和亲身经历的案例将大量的专业知识讲到普通人都能听懂的程度不学习太可惜OK第10本就算了吧第10本没必要看第10本挑过11其实11我已经不记得这本书了挑过1212就是龙书编译原理这个其实怎么说其实不太 I don't recommend everyone to read it. Dragon Book is not too deep, but it is a very specific scene. If this thing doesn't affect you, if you don't need to go to the compiler level or the compiler result, it doesn't affect you much, you don't have to read it. I think this is when your work is very close to the compiler. Not directly in contact with the compiler, but very close. For example, after this thing is compiled, you need to consider its optimization. Let's take a more general example. If you just do some simple select, update, insert in the database, you don't need to have a very deep understanding of the principle of the database. But if you want to do some complex queries and updates on the database, the core principles of the database will have a great impact on the efficiency of your actions. In this case, you should be able to understand the principle of the database, how the data is stored, how it is divided into small pieces, and how to index it. When your query is sent, how does the query planner make decisions? The way the storage of data structures causes the cache to be refreshed. In this case, you need to understand these things. Compiler is the same. When your binary, your software compiles, 如果你不需要關心更多細節的話,你沒必要看了。但是如果你需要關心的話,我覺得你有必要去了解一下Compiler的這個原理,你對你的這個東西就會更了如指掌,就更有掌控能力。大概這種感覺。13,三葉摩托新生代。這本書我純粹是覺得它設計的很好看。這本書真的很好看好吧。 This is smaller generations. I also made a bunch of labels. This is a bookmark. I forgot when these bookmarks were pasted on. Why didn't I take them off later? Yes, yes, yes, because I made the notes myself. I pasted them myself. 难怪我还要出现在这里,十几年前写的好夸张,我这里又贴了一个,这个虽然说的是business model,但实际上就跟跨越鸿沟一样。 What he said was that if you want to do something, you have to... 说得清楚你做这个东西,它的一些基础的细节,比如说这里面最重要的一个,我找到它最重要的一个,我感觉最重要的一个图就是这个图,结构图。你有没有办法把你要做的东西,等这些部分能够给它说清楚,你能够解释的清楚不? You can fill it yourself. If you want to do something, can you fill all these squares yourself? For example, the customer segment on the far right of the customer segment. The user group, who is your audience group? Customer Relationship Channels What kind of channels do you use to contact your users? Customer relationship, what kind of relationship do you want to establish with your user? Long-term, short-term, one-time, repetitive. Value proposition, what kind of presentation is this value? Key activities, key resource, what are the most important things you do to present this value? What are the most important resources in this? The last one is the most important one. Which partners will you have? Because you can't do this on your own. Next is cost structure. What is the structure of your cost from start to finish? Verily Stream. This is the last one. What is the source of your stable income? Is this source an endless source? You can fill these things up It means that you have a clearer understanding of what you want to do Otherwise, your idea is a half-bottled idea The gap between the air and the building is not realistic 这不是创业的问题,不管是创业还是什么,你做任何的软件或者做任何的产品,刚才说到的这些东西你都应该有。你想想,如果你做的某一个东西,它的cost是很高的,为什么有人愿意给你做?如果你做这个东西,它是没有revenue的,那谁愿意让你一直烧钱烧下去? If you don't have a reasonable channel, how do you convey these things to your users? This has nothing to do with entrepreneurship. This has nothing to do with software. It is any product. You should be able to explain these points. If you already know this, it doesn't matter. If you think you don't understand or are confused, you must have a better reference material. Business Model Generation 15年篇的书了,不错不错,到现在依然很靠谱。然后下一本是Lim Startup,这个就很有名了。这本书应该很有名的吧。因为当年Move Fast and Break Things这个东西好像是Facebook提的吧。但是毕竟人是大产的吧,他这么说你也学不了。 The Limb Startup is a system that systematically explains how to quickly delay and quickly push forward. Basically, it took the phrase "move fast and break things" and put it into a book. I don't think I've finished reading it completely. 因为有很多东西对我来说已经是常识了但是可能对你来说不是那你就有价值去看一下不过确实是比较偏向于创业的因为你看他就是说的是startup它主要针对是一个startup的场景比起刚才这本刚才这本的话就是比较通用的我更推崇这本这本而且是比较扎实的这本有点像走捷径其实它里面举了一些例子 After all, it's been many years. When was this book published? Why didn't this book be published at the beginning of the year? When was this book published? Why is it not displayed? It's been many years, let me think. I think I can just put this thing on. 我自己有书,我还在找。这本书是2011年的,11年的时候的。所以它有些理念现在其实已经听起来有点可笑了。不过在当初,应该算是互联网时期,对互联网这个工具怎么样?就是第二个互联网时代,对吧?这是第二个互联网时代,因为我们互联网死过一次。 我们会死过一次,死亡之后的第二个互联网就是怎么样抓住第二个互联网的价值让它快速的做好一个做好一个新产品,快速迭代,快速获得市场认同这是一个也算是当年的一个比较好的一个方案 后面人间这个东西,其实你看人间神话就行了,我感觉人间这个东西没有很大必要。设计心理学,design of everyday things,各位做前端的人,我好像逐渐很多做前端的人是吧。 the design of everyday things,好书,好书。不过呢,它不是完全针对计算机的设计的,就是它这个设计就是你看,everyday things嘛,对吧,设计心理学,这个中文的翻译是超级烂,我都不知道为什么他要翻译成什么设计心理学,在这里一点心理学的地方都没有。 他就是讲一下日常设计的概念但是他这里的东西很多知识点很多理念他其实就是很通用的他的设计灵感或者是一个设计的偏重什么 比如说他这里有我记得有举例过这个control setting对吧这个东西对吧不管是软件的还是硬件的只要做前端的我们肯定天天都要接触这种东西的这东西的设计怎么让设计更合理不是因为你这个东西是给人操作的你给用户去操作的 应该怎么样操作,也讲到很多一些比较日常的造台要怎么摆,对吧?炉子跟点火的控制器应该怎么排布比较好?如果你是纯粹像我是一个UI,我是做Frontend,我是做前装设计的,我想我只关心这个UI怎么设计的好,对吧? you may think that there are many examples in this book that have nothing to do with you, but it is impossible that everything has nothing to do with you. Because the big reason is the same. How do you reverse-push this from the user's perspective? Is this reasonable? 而不是说你从一个设计者的角度去做,我先做完了,然后他会不会用,我再说,他不会用,我再在附近再加上什么说明,加上什么备注,对吧,加上一个弹窗,加上一个问号,那个探号,什么,那个可以让他点一下的,或者是mouse over之后,这样的会显示一个提示什么的,或者是那个guiding,那个什么starting guide,对吧,你这些就是补救措施啊。 This book is more about how to design from the user's perspective at the beginning, rather than going to fix it later. I think it has a good point here, because there are many non-software-like designs, you really don't have a chance to fix it. You can just get this thing out, unlike our software that can still make a fix. 硬件的东西,你到完了之后出产了,卖到人家那里了,你就碰不了了。所以我个人推荐看一看,原文的名字叫做Design of Everyday Things。2013年,2013年的是更新版。 原版是2002年的,照回产品,谁想照回产品啊?照回一次死人的好吧。有读过Introduction to Algorithm,有什么看法,发了几页感觉难度颇高。Introduction to Algorithm是我大学的时候学算法入门的时候的教科书,非常不推荐。我们所有同学都一致认为这本书不适合作为教科书,它对你的负面影响比起正面影响要大。 如果你是纯粹想要通过它来入门算法的话就算了,真的不适合做教科书。最后一本《programming peer编程助机perl》。这个其实怎么说,你没事可以看一下。其实这里面绝对部分都是做题。 虽然说这个些题现在如果你是想要跳槽的话,你有空还是多做了code,而不是看这个,看这个是你如果没有跳槽的想法,你不想要刷了code,但是你想要去了解一些有意思的编程的题目,编程的那种问题。 You want to study it? Think about it, actually, the code was not made for interviews when it was just released. Because doing some difficult pure computer concepts is actually a very interesting thing for some people. 只不过后面就是那些大企业把这个东西变成了一种工具导致到整个东西整一个整一个行业都扭曲了就变成了一个纯粹为了面试为了考试而存在的工具但是在以前的年代像programming peerper 编程助机它纯粹的就是一种很纯粹的就是锻炼你的脑力所以如果你还保存着这一点点的兴趣 如果你没有刷题考面试的需求不需要刷的code但是你又对这种有点兴趣就有点像脑机几转弯那样是成炫的自立题主要是它很经典你想想这多少年了原版是86年了我的天原版到现在已经快40年了40年前了可以的OK讲完了17本书