Netflix series 'Adolescence'
The entire film is shot in one continuous take
Each episode reveals the truth of a juvenile homicide case
Surprisingly involving Red Pill, Incel culture
Netflix has nearly 100 million views in three weeks
Causing social concern
The British Prime Minister even requested it to be screened in schools nationwide
Currently, there are no complete introductions to the Red Pill theme in the Chinese YouTube circle
There are no books on this topic in the Taiwan book market either
In today's video, let's start with the series 'Chaos Teen'
Let's talk about what exactly is the Red Pill
What is Incel
How is online misogynistic culture eroding young people today?
The story begins
We see the police setting off early in the morning to arrest a 13-year-old teenager, Jamie
The crime he committed is murder
The parents believe there must be a mistake
How could a 13-year-old young man commit murder?
Until the interrogation at the police station
Surveillance footage reveals Jamie stabbing his female classmate Katie
At this point, the father's question is no longer 'who' killed the person, but 'why' did he kill?
Seeing this
The audience may think this is another tragedy caused by family education problems
Is it that the parents did not fulfill their responsibility of raising their children
But the plot develops in the opposite direction
This is a perfectly normal family
The protagonist also has no childhood trauma
So the main theme of the second episode is the police entering the school to investigate the case
Looking for Jamie's motive for murder
The police first see the chaos, disorder, and bullying on campus
Even the school teachers don't know the students' situation
Until the police's child tells him the clues on IG
The case begins to make progress
It turns out that the whole case started with school bullying
Jamie was ridiculed by his classmates as an Incel
The word 'incel' is an abbreviation for involuntary celibate
This word originated in 1997
A Canadian female college student, Alana, launched the 'Involuntary Celibate Project' online
To give those who want a partner but are always single
A place to comfort each other
This is actually a very positive thing
Incel is similar to the Chinese term 'mother-fetal single'
Originally this term was for both men and women
As long as you are a loser in love, you can be called Incel
But with the development of online public opinion
Incel has slowly become an exclusive term for heterosexual men
In 2003, a group of Incel men began to debate on the forum
Which is more important to girls: a man's 'appearance' or 'personality'?
Next, the online forum Reddit started an incel version
There are more and more extreme remarks
Blaming women for men's singleness
By 2017, there were over 40,000 users
Due to a surge in misogynistic comments
Reddit decided to take down this forum
These people then moved their base
To places where they wouldn't be taken down
Like online game chat rooms
20 years passed like this
The incel community on the internet became more and more prosperous
Coupled with the promotion of misogynistic internet celebrity Andrew Tate in recent years
A unique incel ideology has developed
This ideology tells men
You are like Neo in The Matrix
You can choose to swallow the blue pill or the red pill
If you swallow the red pill, you will see the truth of the world
What is this truth?
Society superficially says we live in a patriarchal society
But in essence, it is a stratified appearance-based hierarchy
The best-looking boys are at the top of the hierarchy
Called Alpha males, or Chads
Boys with average looks belong to the middle class
Called Beta males, or "normies"
Ugly boys belong to the bottom class
That is, unwanted incels
A man's natural genes determine his popularity
How did this appearance-based hierarchy come about?
The red pill will tell you
It is women's nature that created this appearance hierarchy
Because women are essentially "hypergamous"
When looking for a partner, they tend to look for men of a higher level than themselves
This is a biological instinct engraved in women's DNA
Only want to find popular handsome guys, Alpha males
Because women control the power to choose a spouse in modern society
So it is women's hypergamy that causes bottom-tier men to be single for life
These single men are "victims", and women are the ones in power
This leads to the 80-20 rule that the red pill likes to say the most
80% of women are only attracted to 20% of men
This theory is widely spread in incel circles
But what is the basis for this statement?
The evidence they like to cite the most
Is the statistics of dating apps
Only a few boys can get matched with girls
When girls all go to find 20% of alpha males
The result will be 80% of "leftover men"
A girl can't match with any of them on dating apps
These numbers on dating apps may be true
Many people on the internet have indeed experimented with it
Boys with average looks suffer a lot on dating apps
But this does not mean that the 80-20 rule is correct
Because dating apps don't reflect reality
For example, on Tinder
Only 25% of users are women
Which means more women prefer to meet people in real life
Instead of using dating apps
If the 20-80 rule is correct
Then in real life, we should only see handsome guys with partners
This is clearly not consistent with reality
In fact
Dating apps not only fail to reflect reality
They also distort reality
Because dating apps are designed for users to match based on photos
Only after a successful match can further conversation occur
This is equivalent to encouraging users to look for partners with superficial eyes
You can't know the other person's personality or how it feels to get along
The Red Pill uses the real feelings of frustration that men experience on dating apps
To peddle their extremist ideas
Because incels are inherently bad at socializing
They lack experience interacting with women
They're always at home swiping on dating apps
So they can only infer based on their own fantasies: the Red Pill theory must be correct
Women are superficial, that's why no one wants me
But if you think about it carefully, you'll find
These claims don't stand up to scrutiny
Because the so-called "appearance hierarchy"
Is itself a male-perspective, single aesthetic
The standard is entirely based on the masculine qualities that men admire
Rather than from a female perspective
In fact
Anthropological research has long pointed out
That men and women often have different mate selection criteria
Men tend to look for young and beautiful female partners
But women consider more aspects
Such as the man's socioeconomic status, education level, ambition, and drive
Then there's the claim of "hypergamy"
Ignoring that in traditional patriarchal societies
Women were unable to receive higher education and were not economically independent
They had to rely on men to survive, which is the reason for hypergamy
Rather than some kind of female nature
In fact, over the past 20 years
Women's education levels and incomes have increased
Many women no longer need to practice hypergamy
Because they are strong enough themselves
If they still want to practice hypergamy
They may have to be single for the rest of their lives
So demographers have pointed out that "the end of hypergamy is a global trend"
Now many families have wives with higher degrees and more salary
Japanese sociologist Chizuko Ueno believes
Some men like to assume that women only look at appearance and wealth
Because this allows them to blame their failures in love on women
Instead of improving their sense of humor, personality, social skills, and respect for women
More crucially,
boys who believe in the 80/20 rule
actually only see the top 20% of beautiful women,
treating the other 80% of girls as if they don't exist.
For these people,
ugly women aren't even "women," they're "dinosaurs."
Just switch the genders around,
and say that 80% of men are attracted to 20% of women,
and you'll find that society also ignores unattractive women.
Women are only seen when they become objects of men's desire.
But you don't see girls hating men and saying,
"It's all men's fault, we need to attack men."
So we need to ask further,
why do some men resort to violence to attack women?
How does inceldom turn from online anger into real-world violence?
This is a hot topic being studied by sociologists and psychologists.
It's also the main theme of the third episode of "Chaotic Adolescence."
Here, we see Jamie expressing male anger.
Where does this anger come from?
Under the close questioning of a forensic psychologist,
we find that Jamie initially felt peer pressure
to force himself to find a girl to date.
He felt he was too ugly and couldn't get a girl,
and would be laughed at by his classmates as an incel.
According to the 80/20 rule,
as an "ugly man," Jamie is at the bottom of the power structure.
So he deliberately looked for a weaker woman than him
to increase his chances of a successful date.
But unexpectedly, Jamie was rejected by the girl.
The feeling of being rejected fueled his anger.
He calls girls bitches just for not going out with him.
One problem highlighted by this conversation is
that Jamie is just a 13-year-old youth.
It's normal not to have a sexual partner.
But in today's youth culture,
you can be bullied for not getting a girl.
This reflects the red pill theory,
which is not only circulating in a small number of online communities,
but has already permeated European and American adolescent groups.
More and more people believe in this radical ideology.
The first red pill violent incident occurred in 2014.
An American man, Elliot Rodger, publicly declared himself an incel online.
He issued a manifesto before committing the crime.
After the manifesto was released,
Roger randomly shot and killed three men and three women in the area.
Injuring more than a dozen people.
After the shooting, Roger returned to his car and committed suicide.
This random murder caused an uproar in American society.
Why do incels go out and kill people?
After carefully studying his pre-crime manifesto,
We saw this passage.
Roger believed that white people are the highest race.
And only they deserve white women.
But he himself is mixed white and Asian.
He believes that having Asian genes is the reason he can't get a girlfriend.
This inferiority complex may be why the three men he killed were all Asian.
Seeing this,
you might think this person is crazy.
No, this person is not only not considered crazy,
but is also revered as a saint by the incel community.
His 133-page manifesto of crimes went viral online.
The incel community even invented a new term for him.
Going ER.
Meaning to imitate his way of killing.
This is not just talk.
In 2018,
a 25-year-old man, Alek Minassian, rented a van in Toronto.
He drove into people randomly in the city center.
11 people died on the spot.
Before the killing, he left a message on Facebook.
Saying "The Incel Rebellion has already begun, we will overthrow all the Chads and Stacys,
Hail the Supreme Gentleman Elliot Rodger."
This kind of incel random killing case does not only happen in the West.
The Akihabara massacre in Japan in 2008,
caused 7 deaths and 10 injuries.
The 25-year-old perpetrator, Tomohiro Kato, after the killing,
revealed that the motive was being too lonely.
Because no woman liked him.
Before the crime, he posted online saying,
"Ugly people have no human rights."
And in 2021,
the well-known "Kofu Murder Arson Case" in Japan.
The 19-year-old perpetrator, Hiroki Endo,
was also rejected after proposing to a high school female classmate.
In a fit of rage,
he broke into the woman's house in the middle of the night.
And killed her entire family.
So far,
there have been more than 60 incel random killings around the world.
This has attracted the intervention of Western countries to investigate.
A Harvard sociologist analyzed 3,600 comments that treated these murderers as saints.
And found the three most common reasons for justifying violence.
The first is that killing can gain social attention.
So that everyone in society can see the anger of incels.
Then we will succeed.
The second reason for rationalization is,
being retaliated against is the girls' own fault.
Who told women not to date and have sex with incels.
The third reason is,
violence is showing a man's masculinity.
Because not having a girlfriend is equivalent to having your masculinity denied.
So they use random killings to restore their masculinity.
Creating a gender expression of "I can be manly too."
In other words,
they treat random killings as a way of "making gender."
This is also why Jamie attacks female classmates in the show.
Not just because he wants to have a girlfriend,
but to prove that his masculinity won't be denied just because he's rejected by girls.
Seeking attention, revenge mentality, restoring masculinity,
these three characteristics happen to match the characteristics of terrorist attacks.
So scholars suggest
that these Red Pill people should be classified as potential terrorists.
Because every time we talk about terrorist attacks,
everyone thinks of Middle Easterners.
But in fact, many incel random killings each year are committed by white people.
According to a 2020 survey,
80% of incel forum users
are white males from North America and Europe.
The strange thing is,
these people keep saying that girls are taken away by the top 20% of handsome guys.
Then shouldn't their target of revenge
be those handsome guys?
Why randomly attack women?
Incels don't hate handsome guys.
On the contrary, they admire them.
They think they are amazing and can "score with hundreds of girls."
Like Leonardo DiCaprio, who changes girlfriends frequently.
You won't see incels complaining that
Leonardo DiCaprio stole their women.
On the contrary,
people like Leonardo DiCaprio are worshiped as gods.
But when girls date handsome guys,
they are scolded as sluts.
This double standard
reflects a deeper misogynistic root in the Red Pill ideology.
Philosopher Kate Manne pointed out
that incels cannot be regarded as just a few individual cases, a group of mentally ill people.
Because when they talk about being single as "distributive injustice" and blame women,
they are actually presupposing that men have the right to enjoy women's bodies.
Treating women as resources, as objects,
instead of as autonomous people.
As if women exist to satisfy men's sexual needs and help men have children.
This misogynistic "entitlement"
itself stems from patriarchal values.
Even if girls don't like ugly men and only love handsome guys, so what?
No one has an obligation to have sex with others.
Then why do incels think society has an obligation to help them?
Because these people regard the traditional society before the 1960s
as a beautiful golden age.
In the past, as long as men worked hard to earn money,
Then you can marry and have children.
Looks aren't that important.
In traditional families, there's always a woman to take care of and resolve men's loneliness.
But the gender equality movement after the 1960s changed all of this.
So, the red pill claims: feminism is a power-grabbing conspiracy.
The freedom that feminism pursues
is just to give them sexual autonomy to pursue top-tier handsome guys.
This kind of freedom, on the contrary, "oppresses" ugly men.
Coupled with the fueling effect of dating apps in the 21st century,
girls can easily find top-tier alpha males.
This leads incels to a conclusion:
Western civilization has been corrupted by feminism.
It's become morally degenerate.
Unwilling to abide by traditional family values.
If we want to save Western civilization,
society should promote "enforced monogamy."
Each woman can only have one sexual partner.
To protect men's sexual rights.
Some even more extreme people will advocate
returning to the Western "Golden Age," ancient Greece.
Like Aristotle said,
women are naturally more suited to being enslaved by men.
Women were in a state of enslavement at that time.
Men wouldn't have courtship anxiety problems.
So, ancient Greece was the real red pill world.
The red pill sees the family structure before the 60s as a golden age.
And sees feminism as the culprit for men not being able to find girlfriends.
This is actually a misplaced cause-and-effect relationship.
The marriage rate was higher before the 60s
because the previous generation of women had little freedom in love.
Because women at that time couldn't be financially independent.
It wasn't until the gender equality movement in the 60s and 70s
that women had equal job opportunities.
They could open their own bank accounts.
They no longer needed to rely on men economically.
This brought the possibility of free love to women.
This is actually a sign of social progress.
But the red pill says it's women seizing power.
Because what they want is the power to bind women at home.
So, they think "women having autonomy and not needing to rely on men" is taking away men's power.
For these men,
only women who are willing to cook and have children at home are good women.
Economically independent women who refuse to enter marriage and family are bad women.
Of course, not all incels are so extreme.
Many people just crave someone to care about them.
So, we can't just look at this group from a gender perspective.
We must further understand these people's psychological state.
Why have incels become more and more numerous in the past few years?
One key reason is
that men's loneliness problem is often ignored by society.
These people often mention: no one cares about my feelings.
Like the famous Japanese Hikikomori.
Three-quarters of them are male.
These people stay at home every day, completely cut off from the outside world.
This is indeed a serious social problem.
But the Red Pill uses this real phenomenon.
To guide men to believe in false ideologies.
Saying that all of this is women's fault, the fault of feminism.
In fact, the problem of male loneliness today can be traced back to several reasons.
First of all, everyone in society has become more lonely than before.
Over the past half-century.
The proportion of Americans living alone has tripled.
In the past decade.
The proportion of young Americans who have not had sex in a year.
Has increased for both men and women.
But if this is a problem for the whole society.
Why do boys feel more lonely?
Because patriarchal culture does not encourage men to express their emotions.
Nor does it encourage boys to build deep friendships with the same sex.
Boys who are too close to the same sex will be laughed at as 'gay'.
If you talk about your vulnerable side, you will be laughed at for not being a man.
According to statistics.
40% of men are unwilling to discuss their emotions and psychological problems.
They can only struggle and persevere in pain.
This leads to excessive psychological pressure on many men.
The suicide rate of young men has always been higher than that of women.
In addition, there are economic problems.
Jacob Johansson, a scholar who studies the Red Pill, pointed out.
Since the 1980s.
Society has increasingly promoted the meritocracy of neoliberalism.
Blaming the failure of today's economic system on individual lack of effort.
Because socioeconomic status is one of the important criteria for choosing a spouse.
Many men who are frustrated in the workplace feel a loss of self-esteem as a result.
Feeling like they are unwanted.
Many people can't find a job outside.
Choose to hide in the world of online games.
These are real problems.
That require systematic handling.
But the emergence of the Red Pill.
Gives these frustrated men an outlet.
Telling them.
The reason you are lonely is simple.
It's all women's fault.
After men join the Red Pill.
They find that many people have the same mate-seeking frustration experience.
Feeling listened to and gaining a sense of community.
Male internet celebrities who peddle the Red Pill claim to awaken men.
But in reality, they are letting men fall into a bigger misogynistic illusion to make a fortune.
Selling false hope to lonely men and carrying out secondary exploitation.
So that their videos can get millions of views.
but it plunges many men into an even bigger patriarchal lie
believing that just having a woman
makes them a winner in life
and their lives will no longer be lonely
This patriarchal value system obscures the real reality
The reality is that even if you have a girlfriend
it won't solve your life problems
Many guys with partners still feel lonely
because they don't know how to manage intimate relationships
and don't know how to love
If a guy with misogynistic ideology gets a girlfriend
then the girl is really in trouble
In the future, there may be emotional abuse, domestic violence, or even love killings
In the United States
an average of two to three women are killed by current or former partners every day
Seeing this
you might think
these are things that only a few extremists do
I don't need to care
But how do you know that the male friends around you, the male relatives in your family
are not secretly exposed to these things?
Just like before the Creative Private Room website was revealed
no one in Taiwan knew
that there were more than 5,000 members secretly watching child sexual exploitation videos
Currently, TikTok's algorithm
promotes Red Pill content to children
We don't actually know what information today's teenagers are exposed to
So what can parents do to prevent their children from falling into the Red Pill circle?
How should society face this crisis today?
To combat the toxic ideology of the Red Pill
the first way is to treat the symptoms
Psychologists have found
that many incels have anxiety, depression, and suicidal tendencies
These negative thoughts actually stem from "cognitive dissonance"
Most people who believe in the Red Pill lack self-confidence
and overestimate the importance of appearance when dating
underestimating the importance of humor, kindness, and loyalty
In other words, incels are actually a group of patients with cognitive dissonance
are a group of patients without insight
They don't know they are sick
mistakenly thinking that their lives are ruined because they are not good-looking
To change this cognitive dissonance
psychological counseling is needed
Society needs to provide a larger mental health safety net
so that young people have an outlet to vent
Let's not forget
the word incel was originally invented by a woman
The original intention was to create a space where single people could support and comfort each other
Another source of Red Pill's cognitive dissonance
is dating apps
Dating app designs initially encourage users to focus on appearance.
Leading many men to blame their frustrations on women being too superficial.
Therefore, many psychological studies have pointed out.
Dating apps can severely erode a person's mental health.
Causing depression and frustration.
It's best not to use dating apps to meet people.
But to build relationships in real life.
Actually, throughout history.
Whenever there are a large number of lonely, dissatisfied men.
It can cause social unrest.
Today's society must also have coping measures.
To deal with a large number of lonely men.
Providing mental health counseling resources.
The Taiwanese government actually provides three free counseling sessions per person.
But why are many men still unwilling to seek help?
Because under patriarchal values.
To talk about one's mental suffering.
Is seen as weak and unmanly.
American educator bell hooks pointed out.
Modern society's men don't know how to love or vent emotions.
This is not the fault of men.
Because patriarchal society has never taught boys how to release emotions.
The only emotion that patriarchy allows men to express is anger.
Taking it out on women.
Blaming women for the harm caused by patriarchy.
But identifying with patriarchy ultimately hurts men themselves.
When men suppress their emotions, they are actually denying their own truth.
Patriarchal culture also does not teach men how to build interpersonal relationships.
Instead, it wants men to use sexual relationships to prove that they are men.
Treating girls as mere sex objects to maintain their own value.
Instead of treating the other person as an equal, autonomous person.
So when girls exercise their freedom to refuse.
Red pill men will fly into a rage.
In different cultures.
There have always been different ways to deal with male frustration.
In white culture.
The church has historically played the role of an institution that gives men emotional release.
Frustrated men can be healed through the power of collective belief.
In the African American community.
There is a tradition originating from the Zulu people of Africa called Healing Circles.
Everyone forms a circle.
To let others listen to the frustrations they have encountered.
You can even use rap.
Sing your suffering story into a song.
Because the Zulu people believe.
I am not truly fully present until I am seen by others.
My heart is in pain and frustration.
If there is no one to listen, it will not be witnessed.
This tradition allows the Black community to use collective power.
To heal the trauma of individual discrimination.
We in Taiwan can also create our own culture.
So that people kidnapped by patriarchy have a chance to heal.
Creating spaces in daily life where men can express emotions.
This action itself is dismantling patriarchy.
Like starting with family education.
Parents can be more proactive in paying attention to the gender concepts that children receive.
Men can learn how to build meaningful connections with other men.
Instead of placing the responsibility of relieving male loneliness solely on women.
When we learn to liberate ourselves from patriarchal values.
That is, to find the shattered self back.
Heal your wounds.
Become a complete self.