Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today I still want to continue to talk to you about Yangming's philosophy of mind
After three weeks of delay
I think we should end this topic.
From May 24 to June 7
We used four videos in total.
This paper discusses the Chinese culture during the Tang and Song dynasties.
The crisis encountered
As well as Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism and Yangming's School of Mind
How to innovate through theory
Trying to restore and establish the Three Bonds and Five Constant Virtues,
The sacredness of the heaven-man system
Of course we know
These efforts
Because the defects of traditional thinking have not been overcome
On the contrary, they are regressing in their rational thinking ability.
Therefore, it did not really save traditional Chinese culture.
So today's show
Let's talk about Yangming's philosophy of mind
Revealed what kind of
On the universal laws of the human spirit
And its profound connection with the thinking mode of the Cultural Revolution
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
first
Let’s review first
Content of the June 7 video
At that time we said
Yangming's philosophy of mind
Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism
A more radical version
Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism emphasizes the pursuit of knowledge through the investigation of things.
Through the care and understanding of the external natural order
Only in this way can we achieve harmony between the individual mind and the principles of nature.
But this is still a reluctant "external standard":
The principles of heaven are in all things.
People need to reflect and introspect in all things
When it comes to Wang Yangming
He directly put all external laws, order,
The basis of the objective world
Take it back into people’s hearts
Based on people's subjective feelings and self-perception
He emphasized that the universe is nothing but the unfolding of the mind.
All the truth
All the truth is in your heart
No need to seek outside
Compared with the tranquility and tranquility of Song Dynasty Neo-Confucianism,
Compared with the quiet and indifferent temperament
Yangming's philosophy of mind is full of fantasy, intense
Even a combative statement
In Chinese culture, where self-denial and humility are the mainstream
Wang Yangming's passionate, excited and fervent expression
Looks so unusual
However
Once we focus on Wang Yangming's specific way of argumentation
You will find
His Way of Thinking and Neo-Confucianism in Song Dynasty
There is no essential difference between "preserving the principles of heaven and eliminating human desires"
On the surface, Wang Yangming emphasized
You just need to go back to your original intention and do things
You will succeed
This heart naturally has all the truth.
No need to seek external verification
However, the content of this original mind, the content of conscience
and the criteria for success
But it is not blank
It does not allow individuals to explore on their own.
It was already determined by saints and kings.
That is loyalty, filial piety, benevolence and righteousness.
You can only exert your initiative and subjectivity
The freedom to implement these values
But there is absolutely no freedom to refute, doubt, or deconstruct them.
This reflects
The core of Yangming's philosophy of mind
In fact, it is quite conservative, rigid and illusory.
And to some extent
Towards witchcraft thinking, primitive thinking
and mysticism.
Let’s look at a conversation between Wang Yangming and his disciples.
Disciple said
There are too many and too diverse books written by Confucian scholars in later generations
May interfere with the learning of the saints
Wang Yangming said: There is a natural law in the human heart.
The Book of Saints
It is just a rough description of the principles of heaven.
Just to make it easier for people to understand
Later generations went to write books
It is also a book of saints
A rougher depiction
This is self-analysis
We are getting further and further away from the true principles.
Wang Yangming's words
It seems to emphasize that the works of saints cannot exhaust the truth.
Need self-realization
But he was just trying to avoid using public reason
To test the legitimacy of those laws
He put all the text logic and argument
are considered limited
Will Tianli
It all comes down to the inexpressible spirit.
But this way of thinking
It is very mystical.
We say
Once the public nature of language and knowledge is denied
Then this knowledge power
Then quietly transferred to those "psychics"
Or the "Revelator"
For example, Wang Yangming himself
Because this knowledge
Only in tune with the inner experiences of these psychics themselves
It is unspeakable
Only through mysterious induction and enlightenment
This creates a
Authority structures that cannot be questioned or confirmed
In the dialogue between Wang Yangming and his disciples
We also often see
That kind of didactic and authoritarian tone
For example, there is a dialogue in the "Chuan Xi Lu"
It is said that Wang Yangming had a disciple named Meng Yuan
This person likes a good reputation.
Maybe I just like to show off myself.
Wang Yangming often criticized him for this
One day I just finished criticizing
Another friend
I came to report to Wang Yangming my recent experience in self-cultivation
After listening to this, Meng Yuan said
This is also my experience before
Wang Yangming, your illness has recurred
Meng Yuan is a little anxious
I want to make a few excuses
Wang Yangming said, your problem has come back again
Then Wang Yangming said
This is your big disease.
Like in a small piece of land
Planted a big tree
All the rain and nutrients
All of them were absorbed by this big tree
As a result, you can't grow other crops
This tree must be cut down by the roots
To grow good crops
Otherwise, no matter how you farm,
In the end, it nourishes this big tree
We saw this disciple named Meng Yuan
There is an urge to show myself
Maybe with a hint of showing off.
He is eager to share his experience with others
In modern educational concepts,
It's the most normal thing.
But in Wang Yangming's view
This is selfish behavior
As long as you like a good reputation
Trying to win praise from others
This is a sign that selfish desires have not been completely eliminated.
The teacher criticized you
You're trying to defend yourself.
You still want to maintain your image
This shows that you are seriously ill.
This conversation easily reminds us of
In many Chinese families, companies, or Chinese studies classes and schools,
Leaders, teachers and parents
I like to criticize a person for being self-righteous.
Always making excuses for yourself
If a person tries to defend himself
This further proves that I am such a person.
But there's a very strange thing here.
That is the meaning of "self-righteousness" in Chinese culture.
Why has it become a derogatory term?
I think it comes from Mencius
It means a person thinks he is right.
Unable to accept other people's opinions with an open mind
However
People can only understand the world from their own perspective.
Even if you start accepting other people's opinions now
Think you made a mistake
That's you now.
Criticizing your past self
You are essentially self-righteous.
so
opinionated
It's not a correctable mistake at all.
It is the basis of all human psychological activities.
Since "self-righteousness" is absolutely inevitable
Then Chinese culture
Why should it be suppressed as a disease?
In fact, this reflects the Chinese cultural assumption that
The self itself is the source of error and sin
As long as you try to defend
It means that your heart is not calm enough and sincere enough.
He doesn't mean to correct
Specific mistakes made by oneself
It is to correct one's own self.
But because of the self
It is impossible to truly eliminate it.
So it cultivated
It can only be a self that always disagrees with itself.
A kind of surrendering everything to external authority
Immature state
Same reason
Making excuses for yourself shouldn't be a mistake.
If the person's reasons for defending himself are not correct
You can point out the error in this reasoning.
But many people criticized
In fact, the motivation itself is to defend oneself
As long as you try to defend yourself
You're making a mistake yourself.
This is of course a very profound and secret discipline.
in addition
We can also find
Wang Yangming likes to use a person's selfish desires
Metaphorically a disease or weed
It must be completely eliminated
This metaphor itself is worth pondering.
for example
There is also such a passage in the "Chuan Xi Lu"
A conversation between Wang Yangming and Xiao Hui
One day Xiao Hui said, Teacher
I think my selfishness is too strong.
What should I do if I often can’t control myself?
Wang Yangming said, you think you are good to yourself
Just to make the eyes see more beautiful things
Let your mouth eat more delicious food
Make your body comfortable
This is totally wrong
Really for yourself
Not the pursuit of sensual enjoyment
But let your five senses obey the guidance of heaven
That is, do not look at what is indecent, do not listen to what is indecent
Your heart is your true self
You are the master of your body
But you need to always protect this heart
Be careful and vigilant
Don't let the colorful things distract your vision.
Otherwise you will lose money
As long as there is the slightest indecent thought
It's like being cut by a knife
The pain is like being pricked by a needle
Until you clear that thought completely
The metaphors used by Wang Yangming are very distinctive.
For example, cutting the grass and eradicating the roots, cutting with a knife and pricking with a needle
These are easy to associate with
Physical pain experience
If it is said that it is the method of cultivation of Zhu Lixue
It is to study things in nature to gain knowledge
Then the method of Yangming's philosophy of mind
It promotes a pathological form of self-censorship.
and mental self-abuse
A person should not only be aware of what he has done
Be more afraid of the thoughts and impulses you may have.
We must “nip problems in the bud”
Once the idea comes
The body will lose
It's like being cut by a knife or stabbed by a needle.
Must be removed
Of course, the human body does not feel severe pain after all.
Wang Yangming meant to say
You have to examine yourself
Any unethical thoughts
Then feel intense shame, fear, guilt, and self-blame
This kind of mental self-abuse
Should reach the intensity of physical pain
You have to keep proving that you are a good person.
Always feel guilty, nervous and cautious
But such people are indeed more easily manipulated by authority.
because
He completely lost his mental boundaries.
Became a
An existence that can be checked at will by authority and adults
In "University Question"
Wang Yangming expounded
His understanding of adults and children
He said: The adults,
The one who regards heaven, earth and all things as one
Such an adult
Able to see the whole world as one family
China as a Person
Everyone is equal
It's just part of this person.
If someone tries to differentiate himself from others
Trying to maintain your boundaries
Then this is the little man.
Wang Yangming believed
If a person cannot eliminate selfish desires
Then even if he has an adult heart
It will also look like a little person
Even if a person has a mean heart
But if he could not be blinded by his own desires
Then he is a grown-up.
On the surface
Wang Yangming is elevating the individual
It seems to emphasize that everyone can be Yao and Shun.
Everyone's heart
There is a person who understands the universe.
It seems to be a kind of universalism with humanistic care
But in fact
This hides a highly authoritarian logic.
That is the key difference between people.
It is whether you can eliminate selfish desires.
Then let another person change your mind
Help you get rid of selfish desires
It's not just not harmful to you.
It's for your own good.
It is to punish past mistakes, prevent future ones, and cure diseases and save lives.
Is helping you
Restore your original conscience
If you fight against it
That just shows that your selfish desire is too deep.
I need treatment more
Therefore, Yangming's philosophy of mind
Seems to have an optimistic attitude towards human nature
But in fact, it is just to make people
Become a
Objects that can be transformed and destroyed by external means
Provides a theoretical basis for intervening and disciplining others
Wang Yangming's words "China is still one person"
More than just a rhetoric and metaphor
It just conveyed
A very dangerous political idea
His vision for society
Not a community of difference and diversity
It is a need for unity of thought,
A “body” that acts in unison
Every individual
Just like a cell in this body
And regard the whole country as one person
This means
Someone needs to represent this person's mind.
Other body organs
All must obey the arrangement and planning of this brain
This way of thinking
Of course, it has also profoundly influenced contemporary China.
for example
Hunan is regarded as the center of Neo-Confucianism in Song and Ming dynasties.
As early as the Southern Song Dynasty
Hunan formed the largest school of Neo-Confucianism
Therefore, it can be said that it is the most orthodox and
One of the most conservative regions
This of course profoundly influenced and shaped Mao Zedong's way of thinking.
We know
Yang Changji was familiar with Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism and Yangming's School of Mind.
He was not only Mao Zedong's teacher
Also Mao Zedong's father-in-law
In the previous video
We have mentioned many times
The letter from Mao Zedong to Li Jinxi in his youth
In the letter, he expressed his desire to change China.
Such as parliament, constitution, president,
Cabinet, military, industry, education, etc.
It's all details
What really matters is the origin.
That is, a person's inner morality and ideological awareness
This great source
It is within everyone's heart
This is almost the same as the saying in Lu Wang's School of Mind: "My mind is the universe."
It is completely connected
Once this universal truth is seen as common to everyone
It's just that some people are temporarily blocked.
Then "I will help you restore the truth"
It becomes to others
Reasons for ideological correction and cleansing
Mao Zedong then believed
You can use the great source as your call
To stir up the hearts of all people
Once the hearts of the people of the world are mobilized
Then everything will be accomplished.
Then conversely
The reason why the masses do not act
It is not because of objective environment or structural constraints.
It's because their awareness is too low and their selfish desires are too strong.
So they need a "preacher" or "prophet" to wake them up.
The Yan'an Rectification Movement
This was the first large-scale practice of this kind of thought reform
How the Red Sun Rises
The details of this transformation are recorded
First, intellectuals should check the documents
Write a reflective note
Keep checking your history
Digging into your own private thoughts
As we gradually dig deeper into our true self
Learners generally develop a sense of guilt
I think that in addition to reading a few more books
It is of no value to the Party and the people.
And my own selfish thoughts will harm the revolution.
It's a sinful thing.
The second is the pressure from the group
Everyone criticizes himself
We also need to expose and criticize others
You also need to accept criticism from others
These
They all appear in the name of caring for each other.
for example
Leading cadres will visit in person
Guiding the parties with great care
Reflect on your own thoughts and historical issues
This often makes the parties very moved
So I confessed my bad thoughts.
If the person refuses to reflect deeply
So based on the purpose of curing diseases and saving lives
The leaders will immediately hold a struggle session
Mobilize all the friends and acquaintances of the person involved
To conduct face-to-face disclosure
Under this high pressure
The vast majority surrendered.
They often use mental self-abuse
Reveal all your thoughts and history
For example, Zhu Ming, a female student at the Central Party School
I wrote down this reflection note.
She put her past aesthetics, conversation, ambitions, and work interests
Even childhood experiences
All of them are included in the framework of "class struggle"
Self-flagellation
Because I grew up in an exploiting class family.
So now the words and actions feel
Even a subconscious reaction
They may all be the legacy of the old social culture.
for example
She reflected on how she had envied Zhou Enlai and others.
I have thought about taking a car and staying in a big hotel.
This is the pursuit of vanity
She reflects on herself
Motivation for joining the Russian Department of Yan'an University
It's actually impure.
On the surface, I said it was for better learning.
I just want to be a diplomat.
Never realized
I should honestly obey the organization's arrangements.
Experience in childhood
She recalled the stories she had heard
They are all fairy tales like princes and princesses
I haven't heard any stories about workers and farmers.
In terms of aesthetics
She said she liked Turgenev better.
Tolstoy's works
I like Western classical art
On socialist literature
For example, How the Steel Was Tempered
Not very interested
Zhu Ming's self-reflection is full of such self-insults
Finally admitted
Even my blood carries the elements of the exploiting class
It's dirty
For this kind of ideological transformation
Xie Juezai, then member of the Northwest Bureau
I quoted Wang Yangming's words
Asking Party members to follow Mao Zedong's teachings
Eradicate all distractions from your mind
He said that transforming oneself is like turning raw meat into cooked meat.
Both boiling and steaming
Overcooked is not considered cooked
It will take a long time to train
Always be vigilant
Once we have some understanding of Song and Ming Neo-Confucianism
You will understand
This kind of thought reform method
It didn’t come out of thin air
It was just that Mao Zedong institutionalized this way of thinking.
It is concrete
From a broader perspective
Whether it is Yangming's philosophy of mind or the Cultural Revolution
In fact, it reflects such a
Universal laws of the human spirit
That is when a person
Or when the spirit of a nation falls into despair and powerlessness
His conventional rationality can no longer understand and respond
Reality
Increasingly stretched
Then the mental state of the person concerned will be contrary to his normal state.
From nothingness and loss
Sudden change to intense excitement, euphoria, and frenzy
He will suddenly become very confident about everything
It seems like I have gained infinite energy
But this confidence does not seem to be based on reason.
It is a mysterious subjective experience
Or some kind of fantasy and self-hypnosis
On the surface, it looks full of vitality and upbeat.
It's actually a deep despair.
As
In this video on December 10, 2023
Mentioned
May Fourth Movement
Intellectuals generally advocate the kind of moralism
and top-down enlightenment
Hopefully by changing people's hearts,
Changing Thoughts, the Way of Mass Movement
To quickly transform China
They celebrate the power of ideas
Precisely because
Chinese culture at that time
Faced with unprecedented challenges from external culture
For example
China before the Cultural Revolution
It is also in a serious social crisis
and institutional failure
But the ideology of the Cultural Revolution
But the hope for change is growing
Relying on the enthusiasm of subjective will and firm belief
Like a revolution in the depths of the soul
Fight against selfishness and criticize revisionism.
certainly
This is a phenomenon common to all human beings.
for example
Russia before 1917
It was an empire with political decay and sharp social contradictions.
In this desperate state
The Bolshevik Revolutionary Narrative
It provided the Russians with a historical theology
Although
They call themselves internationalists and Marxists.
But in the kernel
Russian Messianism
Believe
The Russian spirit has a special historical mission
It is to bring Europe and the world
Freed from the evil and corruption of capitalism
For example
Weimar Republic
Also born in a social turmoil,
The Age of Order Collapse
The freedom and rule of law promised by modern enlightenment rationality have become weak
The public is beginning to dislike the diversity and compromise of democracy
But I want a strong decision
Putting hope in a noble and sacred national will
Let's change all this quickly
German National Spirit
Depicted as a polluted sacred being
A strong cleansing by the leaders is needed
To restore purity
As Carl Schmidt believed
All important concepts in modern state theory
These are all secularized theological concepts.
When a society cannot find a modern rational order
He often resorts to more fanatical and radical concepts
To break the conventional mechanism
And give it justice and necessity
These concepts are not necessarily religious
It may appear secular
Such as people, leaders, class struggle, etc.
But their commonality is unquestionable.
Not for discussion
That’s all for today’s video.
The topic of Yangming's philosophy of mind is now over.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "History and Society"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!