I've explained elsewhere why I think actual 
continual learning is needed. I don't think  
you can have AIs that perform whole jobs as 
competently as humans if they are forced to just  
write markdown files from session to session.
Just to give an illustrative example,  
imagine if this is the way that students learn 
to play the saxophone. You have one student,  
he's never played the saxophone 
before. He goes into the music hall,  
he tries to play it. Of course, this is his first 
time, so he fails, and he writes down a bunch of  
notes about what went wrong. And there's a next 
student who's waiting outside the music hall.  
He comes in, he reads all these notes. He's 
also never played, so of course he messes up,  
and he continues to add on to these notes. And 
you have an infinity of students outside the music  
hall who keep writing notes to the next person.
I don't think there's any sequence of text they  
could write to each other that would allow 
the subsequent student to just nail the  
saxophone from the first try. At some point, 
you actually have to accumulate the relevant  
experience into your brain. I think the same 
thing will be true for a lot of skills that  
we want AIs to actually accumulate from all the 
different workplaces in which they're deployed. 
Okay, so what changes once we 
have actual continual learning? 
One, I think that a lot of proposals that have 
been put forward about regulating AI assume that  
you train a model and then you deploy it. And 
therefore, if you run a bunch of checks on the  
model before it is deployed, we can make 
sure that it's not going to aid in cyber  
attacks or do something crazy. I don't think this 
assumption necessarily makes sense in the future,  
and this is one of the many reasons I'm worried 
about locking in some kind of safety regulatory  
regime right now — because we don't know what kind 
of technology we're going to be dealing with even  
within a year, let alone within five or ten years.
What if the model is improving every single day  
based on the millions of sessions of work 
it does in that day? If that happens,  
we could potentially be locking in an archaic and 
potentially counterproductive approach to dealing  
with the threats from AI. To the extent the 
government wants some way to do safety evaluation  
on model providers, I think it would make more 
sense to do monthly or quarterly risk inspections  
rather than trying to single out some special 
moment that occurs after training is done but  
before deployment begins, because that will not 
be a meaningfully distinct category in the future. 
Two, how the labs do technical alignment would 
probably totally need to change. Right now,  
a lot of research is focused on the question of 
how we make sure that a frozen set of weights  
behaves well during deployment. But I'm not aware 
of much research on the question of how we make it  
so that even with constant weight updates, the AI 
system never falls prey to jailbreaks or changes  
into a deceptive or evil persona. And if AIs are 
consolidating learnings between users as well,  
how do we prevent users from injecting 
backdoors or some kind of malicious  
inclination into the base model?
In some sense, this is what the human  
alignment problem is, right? Humans improve in a 
self-directed way. If you have kids — I don't have  
kids, but I imagine this is what happens — they 
go out, they learn new things. Sometimes they go  
crazy. They get one-shotted by crazy ideologies, 
they take the wrong drug, they become super weird.  
But you hope that you've given them enough common 
sense and basic values that they improve as people  
in a self-directed way without ending up with 
some super weird beliefs or misanthropic ideas. 
Three, the diversity of AI minds will increase. 
Right now, there are less than five prominent  
AI minds, by which I mean the base models which 
are served to millions or hundreds of millions  
or billions of users at once. And they're all 
quite similar to each other, by the way, because  
they've all been trained on roughly the same 
data. But if AIs are learning from experience,  
and that experience is different between not only 
different AI companies but also between different  
instances of the same AI model, we could see a lot 
of diversity come out the other end in this world. 
And this would be, I think, a net good outcome. 
One of the things to worry about in the future  
is having this monolithic singleton 
that's quite boring. A world where we  
have continual learning would hopefully be 
more interesting than the mode collapse of  
different models we see in the world right now.
Four, when deployment becomes part of training,  
the returns to being ahead in the AI 
race accelerate. If you have the best  
model and more people are using your AI 
for more complicated and useful work,  
and as a result they're giving it lots of feedback 
that it can integrate beyond the session window,  
then your model will become even smarter.
Five, if the model learns mainly from deployment,  
then labs will feel a lot of pressure 
to deploy their smartest models earlier.  
Anthropic has reportedly been using Mythos 
internally since February, but it only  
shipped the model to the public in June. In 
the regime with actual continual learning,  
this kind of thing would just not be possible. 
You could not keep a four-month gap between  
internal and external deployment and still be 
competitive, because a competitor who ships a  
worse model on release date will have a smarter 
model based on actual real-world experience. 
Six, continual learning will create a clear moat 
for the leading AI labs that they currently lack.  
Many people have been asking, "How will 
the AI labs actually make money?" I have  
been asking this. When I had Dario on 
the podcast, I asked him this question,  
and he made the analogy to cloud providers. 
He made the point: look, the cloud providers  
are offering many undifferentiated services, but 
they're earning high profit margins nonetheless.  
You will have noticed this if you look at Amazon 
or Google's quarterly earnings — they're doing  
just fine. But the reason that the cloud margins 
are so high is that it's really time-consuming and  
expensive to switch from one cloud to another.
Currently, there's nothing stopping me from  
starting a software repository with Codex, 
then doing more work on it with Cursor, and  
then finishing it up with Claude Code. But once 
we have actual continual learning, and the model  
you're working with is actually getting better 
as it interacts with you from session to session,  
then there are pretty significant switching costs. 
If you want to change the AI that you're using,  
you basically have to fire an employee 
that has accumulated months of context  
on your organization, and replace them with 
a very fresh, very unexperienced new intern  
that you've got to retrain from scratch. 
And once you have this kind of lock-in,  
model providers can demand pretty hefty margins.
Sorry. Really emphasis on the fresh intern. 
Seven, of course, enterprises will be wise to this 
kind of dynamic. They will try to avoid this kind  
of lock-in. But what if the choice is that you 
either get locked into a model provider or you  
lose out on this super valuable feature where your 
model improves for you from session to session? 
If real usage ends up being the main way the 
models improve, then the AI labs may subsidize  
users and enterprises which allow the model to 
train on their sessions. This is already happening  
if you look at the kinds of deals that are 
offered to new users of coding products. This is  
very similar to why Google gives away search. And 
conversely, the labs may say that any enterprise  
that refuses to let them train on the sessions 
can't have access to the very best models. With  
both carrots and sticks, the labs can do a lot to 
get users to allow AIs to learn from experience. 
Now, of course, I'm glossing over the fact that 
there's a difference between updating one user's  
set of weights and pooling all these different 
weight forks back into the main model, and the  
latter may be more technically challenging. 
But in due time, this too will be solved. 
Eight, AI training already has large economies 
of scale. You get to amortize all this expensive  
training across more users, and you see the 
evidence for this in the fact that the lab  
revenues are increasing far faster than their 
compute. But continual learning may also lead to  
economies of scale in inference for end users, 
namely from batching. You might have seen my  
episode with Reiner Pope where we discussed this 
in detail. But if per-company information require  
full weight updates rather than living in low-rank 
adapters, there are huge advantages from batching. 
Back-of-the-envelope math suggests that the 
optimal inference batch size for a sparse  
model like, say, DeepSeek v3 is more than 2400 
concurrent sequences being generated at once.  
If you don't do this, then you're underutilizing 
your compute. And if you want to understand why,  
again, I highly recommend that episode 
with Reiner on inference economics. 
But anyways, the point here is that a given set of 
weights is only served efficiently when thousands  
of sequences are being decoded against it all at 
once. A large company with lots of employees and  
agents who are doing lots of different kinds 
of things can very efficiently serve their  
weight fork, whereas an individual user who's only 
running a batch size of one may suffer more than  
two orders of magnitude worse efficiency on their 
compute. So the economics of serving personalized  
weights strongly favor big organizations.
Obviously, plenty more will have changed by the  
time that continual learning actually works, and 
the most important changes are probably the ones  
that are hardest to anticipate in advance. 
But the ones above seem clear even now. 
This was a narration of a blog that I 
also published on my website. Go check  
it out at dwarkesh.com. Otherwise, 
I will see you on the next podcast.