Triumphs differed hugely in scale and spectacle. 
Gradually, it seems they got more and more lavish  
as Roman conquest reached into places that were 
really rich and in Roman terms really exotic. I  
think the main function of the triumph is for 
Romans to think about what it is to be Roman.  
But it has another side to it which is it puts 
fear into the enemy. It certainly provided the  
model in Europe for uh celebrations of royal 
or military power ever after. I'm Mary Beard  
and I've worked on the ancient Romans for 50 years 
and I've written quite a lot of books about them.  
I've just started a new podcast called Instant 
Classics, which is about Greece and Rome.
The Roman triumph, the greatest celebration of all 
time. A Roman triumph or a triumphal procession  
was awarded to a super successful Roman general. 
It's not clear whether there were any exact rules  
for this. Some ancient writers said, "Ah, you had 
to have killed 5,000 of the enemy to be awarded  
a triumph." We don't know if that's entirely 
true. What it was was a vast procession through  
the streets of Rome leading up to the temple of 
Jupiter best and greatest on the capital line hill  
with the general, the successful general standing 
in a very elaborate ceremonial chariot dressed up  
in an extraordinary purple outfit with a purple 
cloak and silver stars which apparently mimicked  
the statue of Jupiter, the god himself on the 
capital line hill. He processed through the city  
up to the temple to make a sacrifice to Jupiter 
in honor really of his victory. But it wasn't  
just that. In front of the general's chariot, 
you find the captives that he'd taken in the  
course of the war and the spoils of victory. Those 
captives, we have some descriptions of them. Uh,  
and they are seen to be most impressive 
when they're of the highest rank and the  
most exotically dressed. I mean, what a general 
really wants is to have a king walking before  
his chariot. A king in his regal outfit, but 
shackled and captured by the power of Rome.  
Some of them we can see from the sculptures 
that we have depicting this procession. Some  
of them seem to have been actually carried in this 
procession. Not walking. Some certainly did walk,  
but some were kind of put on on onto platforms and 
bound hand and foot were carried along for people  
to look at. And we know that that the audience 
of the triumph were drawn to see what the people  
were like. The Romans had now conquered. Now it it 
could sometimes rebound. They sometimes felt very  
sorry for them actually. But the general is really 
parading his power over the the dynasts and the  
ordinary soldiers uh that he had conquered. There 
was the booty, some of the best bits of loot that  
he'd taken in the course of his campaign. We often 
think of the spoils of victory in a rather limited  
way. Actually, we think of sculptures, precious 
works of art, um coin coming in to Rome and being  
on display to the people in the procession. And 
there were certainly plenty of those. But it goes  
much further than that. Um what they were wanting 
to do was to as it were kind of exemplify what  
the conquered territory was. Triumphs differed 
hugely in scale and spectacle. Gradually it seems  
they got more and more lavish as Roman conquest 
reached into places that were really rich and  
in Roman terms really exotic. And I think that 
what you have to see the triumph as in part is  
literally something that brings the Roman audience 
who might have never been outside a radius of 30  
miles of the city of Rome or certainly not Italy. 
It brings them face to face with the kind of stuff  
and creatures that they had never ever seen. I 
mean, they've not got picture books of what it  
looks like when you go abroad. There are some 
representations of of the foreign places you  
find in painting and mosaic. That's true. But 
this is a literally bringing the Roman people  
face to face with the world and I think slightly 
uneasily from our point of view the world that  
they believe they've conquered. So you could find 
animals on display. You could find plants, trees  
on display. In one triumph of 71 CE by the emperor 
Vespasian and his son Titus, they had balsam trees  
brought from Judea. So you're what you're seeing 
is not just the elaborate brick and sometimes it  
is very elaborate. this extraordinary stories of, 
you know, seeing the king's throne encrusted with  
jewels carried along in procession, but it's also 
the flora and fauna of of the captured place. And  
that combined sometimes in a strange way with 
boasts on the part of the general. So that  
you get placards carried along with that which 
list the places that the general conquered the  
individual town. Placards which depict the uh the 
victories happening, the destroyed forts of the  
enemy. And behind the general came at least some 
of his victorious troops. They interestingly were  
were said to um have sang lewd songs slightly 
at the expense of the general so he didn't get  
above himself and just in case he should get in 
above himself. Um there he is dressed as Jupiter  
Optimus Maximus you don't want him to think that 
he really is a god. It said that there was a slave  
in the chariot with him saying remember you're 
a man. remember you're a man. Remember you're a  
man the whole time. But they go through the city 
like that. It it's now I think very hard to get  
a a sense of the the size and the excitement of 
it. We know they put up special stands so people  
could get a good view. I suppose I tend to think 
of this as a Brit as something like what you might  
see in the um the coronation of a British monarch. 
But I think the coronation of a British monarch  
is is is a rather feeble comparison. You know, I 
think people were coming to see what the general  
had done. They were coming into the center of Rome 
to see what Roman conquest meant. So it's hugely  
impressive, but it's also very very ideologically 
rooted. I think the main function of the triumph  
is for the local Roman audience. It's for Romans 
to think about what it is to be Roman. But it has  
another side to it, which is it puts fear into the 
enemy. It's a a ceremony news of which I suspect  
travels that that enacts the humiliation of the 
defeated. And we know that there are several uh  
defeated monarchs and generals who kill themselves 
rather than be displayed in the triumph. The most  
famous of those, I think, is Queen Cleopatra, who 
probably heard all about triumphs from her lovers  
Julius Caesar and Mark Anthony. when Octavian the 
future emperor Augustus wants to take her back to  
parade as you know the key bit of booty in his 
triumphal procession. She is said to have said  
I will not be triumphed over and that accounts 
for her suicide. And I think that you can see  
that the eyes of the Roman people and your the 
sheer humiliation of becoming a piece of spoil  
is something that you might think and we know some 
did. I am not going to do that. I am simply not.  
You know Cleopatra is a refusnic. Mithridates is 
another refusnic. It's a ceremony of celebration.  
It's also a ceremony of humiliation. The triumph 
must have been at its biggest, it must have been  
quite extraordinary. It's hard to imagine that 
there was any Roman celebration that was more,  
you know, confident in some ways of um of its own 
spectacle. And the root of a triumphal procession,  
we don't exactly know where it goes, but it must 
have been able to accommodate thousands, hundreds  
of thousands. It is really, really big news. 
Whether it's the biggest kind of procession of  
its type in human history, it's impossible to say, 
but it certainly provided the model in Europe for  
uh celebrations of royal or military power ever 
after. Um successful generals in the Renaissance  
imitating um the Roman triumph to celebrate their 
own kinds of victory. So I think in many ways it  
provides a model for what it is like to celebrate 
conquest. Uh it's a template for how the city puts  
its might on display. We have a very good idea 
of the number of triumphs that took place because  
um Romans recorded it as accurately as possible. 
to be fair, not entirely accurately because they  
attribute one triumph to Romulus, the founder 
of Rome, and he probably didn't exist. So,  
there's some fuzzy edges, but basically, they've 
got a list of triumphs, and they add up to more  
than 200. What is interesting, there is a real big 
break in the kind of triumphal procession that you  
get in the reign of the first emperor Augustus in 
19 B.CE. Because after 19 no one who is not either  
the emperor himself or a prince of the royal 
house, no ordinary general receives a triumph.  
So up to 19 BC through the republic of Rome, it is 
for ordinary or rather the extraordinary generals  
to claim their triumph. Under Augustus, it becomes 
a royal ritual. The logic is that all wars after  
that point are fought as it were as if they were 
the emperor's wars. So when a triumph comes,  
it is the emperor who gets the honor of the 
triumph. So they become very very monarchical  
which they hadn't been up to that point. It's very 
hard to say um which is which is the grandest or  
the most extravagant over-the-top lavish or bad 
taste of these ceremonies. But the the ceremony  
that people pick out and that Romans picked out 
was the two-day ceremony that Pompy the Great held  
in 61 B.CE E for his conquest of the pirates and 
also his conquest of the eastern king Mithrates.  
Now this starts out by being extraordinary because 
triumphs by and large are one-day affairs. You  
know you load everything up, you process through 
the city of Rome, you get to the temple of Jupiter  
optim maximus, you do a sacrifice and you have a 
great dinner and that's it. Now what Pompy does,  
he says that he cannot squash all his stuff 
into a procession that lasts just one day. So  
it's a two-day procession. It is full of really 
really extravagant spoils particularly from the  
court of Mithrates. Actually, one of these we 
have one bronze pot which almost certainly goes  
back to Pompy's triumph and still survives. It's 
in the capital museums at Rome and it's clearly  
came from Mithrates's kingdom and it's very very 
likely was one of the things that was actually  
carried in the procession. It is not by any means 
the grandest. It's a rather elegant plain bronze  
picture about 70 cm high. But we read of most 
fantastic ornamented sund dials. We read of  
kind of barrels load of coin. We read even of an 
image of Pompy himself presumably made out of the  
spoils where his head carried in this procession 
as as were as part of the fruits of conqueror. His  
head is made entirely out of pearl. It must have 
been a colossal head made of pearl. Um it has to  
be said that this is one of the cases where in 
a sense Pompy got it a bit wrong. I mean people  
are always looking at the triumph both wanting 
to admire it be impressed but also wanting to  
say I think this is a bit over the top. I think 
this is a bit vulgar actually. I think I think  
this is too luxurious. So there's always that 
counterpoint and the head of Pompium Pearl was  
uh one of the objects that really captured that 
critical tendency because people said two things  
about it. They said um this is a very epheminizing 
thing to do. Pearls in the Roman imagination were  
very very much associated with women. So the 
critics of Pompy said, "How could he have his  
head represented in that female material?" But 
there were also, I'm afraid, rather nastier  
insinuations made later because Pompy in the end, 
he's the the major adversary of Julius Caesar.  
Julius Caesar and Pompy fight it out in the 40s BC 
basically for who's going to run the Roman world.  
Caesar wins. Pompy flees to Egypt. Uh when he gets 
to Egypt, he thinks he's getting out of the boat  
to safety actually. But the Egyptians on the shore 
uh cut his head off and people looked back at this  
head. is just the head of Pompy carried in the 
procession and they wagged their fingers and said  
that was an omen of what was going to happen to 
him in the end. So there is always this sense that  
huge luxury and Romans are very moralizing about 
this huge luxury is always a bit dangerous. the  
moment of the general's the acme of his career. 
You know, the triumph is kind of thing. You'd say,  
"What what do little Roman boys dream of?" uh as 
being the biggest success they could ever achieve,  
a triumphal procession. And yet, it's very 
often slightly tainted with potential disaster,  
potential overreach. any number of stories of 
for example triumphing generals who very soon  
after found that their sons died. You know that 
it kind of the success of the triumph comes back  
to haunt you. There was always a question of how 
how far you really were as the triumphing general,  
the star of the show. And it was obviously 
extremely desirable if you're a general to  
have a great king in front of you marching along 
in front of you to show that you had conquered a  
king. There was uncomfortably often a sense that 
the crowd were actually more interested in the  
king and the princesses and the sad captains than 
they were in the general himself. So it's not all  
win if you have a trial. There is a a wonderful 
quote from the Roman philosopher Senica who was  
also the tutor of the emperor Nero um thinking in 
part about triumphs and it says petty sacrilege  
gets punished sacrilege on a grand scale that is 
what gets you a triumph it's a quote which Senica  
is partly drawing and adapting from a famous 
story about Alexander the eight who captures  
a pirate and asks a pirate. This is in the 4th 
century BC. He says to the pirate, "Why did you  
take other people's property?" Right? Why did you 
why did you steal things? And the pirate replies,  
um, if you steal things and you've only got one 
ship, you're called a pirate. If you steal things  
and you've got a whole army and a navy, you're 
called a king, right? Sunny in a way is adapting  
that and having one eye on the triumph. And I I 
think it's it's a quote I very much like because  
it it shows the Romans really reflecting on reward 
morality um on who makes it big, who doesn't,  
who gets blamed. I mean we do have or much of the 
modern world I think has a tendency to think of  
Romans as if they had you know no problem about 
any of this. They went off and they conquered  
things and they came back with their booty and 
their loot and they didn't bat an eyelid. They  
thought it was holy to their good. They had no 
moral scruple. What Zenica is saying is that you  
know if you rip things off, you go to temple and 
you take all the sacred objects from the temple  
and you're just a single guy, you'll find yourself 
punished. If you do that on a grand scale,  
Rome honors you. And the question of course 
is that he's raising about Roman imperialism  
and the Roman Empire is is actually different you 
know is is it just theft on a very big scale now  
it's those kind of worries I think that the Romans 
are are negotiating when they talk about triumph.
Want to support the channel? Join the Big Think  
members community where you get 
access to videos early and free.