Hello 大家好啊,今天想聊一下Aaron在第1个视频说过觉得Aaron潜力很大之外之后就是一个季度之后想看一下Aaron他自己这个AI数据中心建设的怎么样了,转型AI转型的怎么样了 We can know from all the information that all the services are doing well. The power capacity is also very large. There are also many pipelines. In addition, there are large customer orders. There is also a credit guarantee for the transformation to a data center. And also, because big clients' insurance for the financing cost will also reduce the financing cost of Aaron in the process of building the data center. So I think everything is going in the direction that is very suitable for the expected. I've been watching two interviews with Microsoft. One is from a CEO of Microsoft, Nedra. The most important thing is that they don't care about GPUs and software capabilities. They just don't know where to put the GPUs. And then I watched this interview and thought, "uh, isn't this that..." If you want to make a contract with Airen, you need a lot of power and infrastructure. If you want to make a contract with Airen, you need to be very careful. Because for Microsoft, it can help Aaron develop some software. Because Microsoft is the strongest software. So I think Aaron's position is pretty good now. And if this order goes smoothly, I think Microsoft is still... to continue to cooperate with Airen. This order only occupies 10% of the 3GW that has been built. There is still 90% of the space. And I think that Microsoft is always more practical in this AI. It won't over-invest and won't... and they can also pay for it. If you don't believe that OpenAI can pay so much, you can trust Microsoft's statement, Microsoft's actions, and Microsoft's partners. So I think... I don't think Aaron is worried about this. The stock price is not going up that fast because more money is needed to fund the data center. It is also destined to have a part of the debt that will be re-invested. the stock price will be under pressure. But in the long run, Microsoft's interview also said that We don't need to worry about the over-construction of data centers. At least they don't need to worry about it before 2029. And we know that the bottleneck of data centers is the power supply. The power supply is not so good in the United States. and get the power supply back to the power supply. And it's also difficult to get a better power generation system when you're so close to the land. And the US wants to build an AI data center in the country. Is there a national security problem? So... If you are in the US and get a ticket in advance, your advantage is huge. Iron is a ticket in advance. And now we can see that his own income this quarter is about $2.4 billion.然后 It is expected to reach $340 million by the end of 2026. This is still quite high. Now, by the end of 2025, it is expected to reach $500 million. And then by the end of next year, it will reach more than $300 million. It will increase by 7 or 8 times. So... It's a very spacious circuit. Even if the GPU is to increase to 14-14,000 GPUs by 2026, it only reaches the power supply. 16% of the data center's capacity. So it can still hold a lot of GPUs. And then the cooperation with Microsoft is five years of cooperation. Microsoft will pay 20% of the money in advance to build a data center. So it also solved some of the financial pressure for Aaron. Many people are discussing the benefit of the order with Microsoft. But I think Microsoft has some room for improvement in the first place. Because you need to prepare for a big client, which can reduce your capital cost and the risk of expanding the data center. Overall, I don't think there is any problem. In the long run, the profit of this order is not that important. Because in the future, with this backup, it should be possible to sign a contract with more data centers. and that was the time to talk. It's better than when there were no customers before, and everyone was hoping that Aaron would announce that there were customers. And now, the data center he showed is mainly built in Canada, BC, and Texas. two places The biggest advantage of this system is that it has a power supply protocol, land, data center and GPU. This means that the cost of electricity is lower and the power consumption is higher. Aaron is a very important AI player in the AI world. Microsoft doesn't say that. Together AI is a developer platform that uses GPU-based training. Fluidstack is a data center of Google. Fireworks AI is also very capable of AI. The people in it are all from MetaAI, the Lama model. Aaron's clients are very professional. When Aaron's CEO was interviewing, he said that clients want more infrastructure. Because for them, expanding infrastructure is difficult to complete in a short time. But whoever goes to the store first, then their smart operations can run longer. Whoever has more smarts in advance, So customers can use the basic settings of Aaron and build their own software. To build this GPU cluster. These customers have very strong software skills. So Aaron doesn't have to worry about the fact that he doesn't have a software engineer. 因为它跟Navius走的还是算是差异化的道路而且在现在这个时期吧就是AI它主要的一大应用我觉得就是写代码嘛就是code然后code pilot和这个反正就是 AI application is a big change in code. After having AI, I think the importance of future software and the burden of that software should not be so high. Just like before, When OpenAI and AMD were working together, I thought that OpenAI could help AMD to optimize its software system and improve AMD's competitiveness. It's not as bad as the previous software. In short, the biggest application of AI is actually software. it can help these software companies or hardware companies that are not so good at these software. So in this respect, I think the cost of software in infrastructure should not be so high. 反而就是说能不能通上电马上通上电这可是争分夺秒的事情因为有了更多的基础设施就马上可以接上电就可以做很多事情可能你跑出来的模型结果都比别人快嘛对吧 I found out that Aaron's team is very smart when I was researching Bitcoin mining. When he was doing Bitcoin mining, he did it for two or three years. and the profit was higher because the overall design was clear and the reason why it can do more is because it has been designed to be more compact and the electricity cost will be lower but at that time, many people did not go to the market to expand quickly and they did not go to the market to buy and they did not go to the market to buy to appreciate a company with heavy assets. Because heavy asset companies have a risk of depreciation. At that time, when Bitcoin was growing, many people were buying it for a quick expansion, like Covif, and then renting it. Then the property can expand very quickly. But in the end, the cost is not as good as the iron. But in the end, if you want to do these infrastructures again, You will not catch up with iron, it will take longer. Because building this infrastructure in the United States I think it's a very long thing. Not as easy as you think. 然后Iron他其实他的比特币挖矿还是继续在挖的他比特币挖矿也是每一枚大概能够以10万美元的比特币价格还是能够赚好像能够赚一个4万多美元一个一颗还是挺赚钱的因为他的主要是电费成本比较低然后他的毛利在挖比特币上是比Mara高很多的当时是看好Mara看好Iron是因为 对比了这两家公司在同一个行业做同一个事情就知道就Aaron的执行能力还有战略能力都是很强的而且他们很早就有眼光去建设AI数据中心这个策略或者是这个远见都是很多公司不可以比拟的 所以我长期对别人的这个眼光还是有还是赞同的或者是说还是会继续看好这样的公司领导层就是还是别人看到的东西肯定比我多然后只要就是跟着这样就是比较有眼光的人进行一个投资就会比较容易一些其实并不需要自己去多过多的思考 You can't find the opportunity to transform like him. And you can't find the turning point in the process. I think most ordinary people can't do this. So I choose to follow the stock like Aaron. He explained the order of Microsoft. He explained the financing structure of Microsoft. It costs about $580 million. 然后他非常清晰的说了就是说大概有19亿美元是来自于客户的预付款25亿美元是通过GPU和合同的一个融资那是用微软的信用作为背书然后还有就是14亿美元是他的一个 What? It's his own cash flow and his own transfer and company debt and then how much is it if you add it up? 对大概就是58亿美元然后现在市场比较担心就是说他这14亿美元他刚发了10亿嘛然后10月刚发了10亿美元的可转债吧然后之后的话可能还要再融资再稀释因为之前那个10亿可能已经用掉一点了未来还要再有10多亿的空缺可能就会再增发一轮 So this is the main pressure after the financial report came out. But overall, I'm not very worried because it's inevitable that the equity will be lost during the construction process. It's not that the price is lower than nebius, but it's still a good deal. I don't know how to calculate the exact cost, but we can compare it with the previous one. The cost of the hammer is very low, and the cost of the GPV is also charged. So the cost of the repair is not that high. But he also bought some GPUs. But at the same time, many GPUs are bought through the cash flow of Bitcoin mining. So he has a free GPU and a free data center. Maybe the margin of the vertical integration will be higher. 现在的话市场主要还是担心Iron他自己就是还要再进行很多轮的融资因为他这之前他说了他这一单只占他的容量的已建成容量的10%那还有90%还要建设的数据中心如果有新的客户的话那是不是还要再融资好多轮了 那他自己解释了这个14亿美元他的缺口的话他还会再发一个10亿美元的零利息的可转债然后还有就是剩下再多融资通过GPU的一个融资再融2亿美元 The company is still trying to be more cautious in dealing with its own debt. Because when we do mining, we know that many miners need to suck up a lot of shares every year. 那Iron也是最早不进行股份稀释的一个公司因为他不再追求最高的一个哈希率所以他就是不会再稀释去融资买最好的设备但是他依然能够保证他的毛利率很高所以其实在Iron的身上你是可以看到他的审慎还有执行力是很强的 The other thing is that Aaron's current 10% of the user base is still working. There is still 90% of the user base in the future.而且它还有在建的一些新的好像有 It also has a capacity of at least 3GW. So, Aaron's execution is still very strong. I think it's good to continue to develop for a long time. If you believe in Microsoft's judgment of the week, At least he won't be ahead of 2029. It's up to everyone to decide whether to take it or not. Because for me, I don't know if there are any other better opportunities for investing. So I think I will keep holding the stock of AI data center. Okay, that's it for today. Thank you.