Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
In two days it will be New Year's Eve
I also wish you all a happy Chinese New Year in advance
May all your wishes come true in the new year.
Today's video
I want to talk about a common psychological topic
It's perfectionism
A few days ago, a netizen who has been following my channel for a long time
Asked me a question
It's about his study.
Severe perfectionism
With his consent
After blurring his story
I'll take his problem as an example.
Show it for discussion
Our channel
Although psychology topics are often discussed
But most opinions are not consistent with the mainstream
So is this video
If you are interested in today's video
or
Do you have any topic you want to discuss with me?
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to our topic today.
First, this netizen said
He has been used to it since he was a child
Set high learning goals for yourself
For example, in primary school
The teacher arranges students to review a text every day
But he set himself a goal of 6 articles a day.
High goals
As a result, I feel extremely stressed every day
Falling into severe anxiety
I barely completed 60% before the deadline.
This almost became a normal thing during his student days.
It is to set a very high goal
Then the difficulty of execution increases
Produce anxiety
Finally, because of procrastination
This leads to greater self-blame and a sense of powerlessness
Although his grades have always been good
But he always lived in acute uncertainty.
He felt
I can't concentrate in class all the time.
Frequent daydreaming and distraction
In college
He hopes he can get out of this situation.
But I can't control myself from watching short videos
This went on for several years.
By the time of my senior year
He decided to take postgraduate study
But it failed in the end.
He told the people around him
This is malfunctioning
But I know this is a normal result.
So how do you view this
What about perfectionism which is very common in China?
I believe everyone still remembers
We are in May
I once made a video about procrastination.
Perfectionism and procrastination often go hand in hand
The difference between them is
The Heart of a Perfectionist
Usually sets a pretty strict standard
Feeling guilty, anxious, or ashamed if you don’t achieve it
In order to avoid this result
Individuals often choose to procrastinate
But procrastination doesn’t have to be driven by a desire for perfection.
for example
Maybe it's just because the task itself is boring.
or pressure
For perfectionism
General psychology books
will attribute it to
The goal that individuals pursue is too high
It's so outstanding
for example
I saw a book on cognitive behavioral therapy
It is written like this:
“Perfectionism
It not only means
Constantly pursue the high standards you set for yourself
For example, I have to keep my house spotless.
I must get full marks
Even though this makes me feel nervous and anxious
It also means that when the expected standards are not met
Often self-critical
Since perfectionism is a problem
The goal is too high
Too perfect, too idealistic
So the solution to the problem is
Be aware that your pursuits are often unrealistic.
Therefore, individuals need to learn to lower their standards
Or investigate the choices of most people.
To formulate more reasonable standards
for example
You think you have to be first every time
If there is a time when it is not
It will be very painful
But if you look at most people's resumes
You will find that almost no one
Be the first every time
so
You realize that this goal is unrealistic.
It's about accepting your imperfections
Accept the reality
Lower your expectations
That's a common strategy.
I certainly think these methods make sense.
But there is still a problem
I just can't accept my own imperfections.
Is this itself an imperfection?
So
Should we accept this imperfection?
Obviously if we are to accept our imperfections
Then you have to accept your own inability to accept
That leads to a self-contradiction.
This is not a word game
It's a very meaningful question.
As we mentioned in our video on November 16th
Many instrumental and emotional concepts
We need to find a realistic balance
For example, sugar is essential to human life.
But eating too much sugar can be harmful to your health
Exercise is meaningful
But excessive exercise is not good either.
However, when it comes to love,
On profound concepts such as freedom and goodness
That's not the case anymore
The reason why true love, freedom, and goodness should pursue absoluteness
Because these concepts are inherently self-consistent
Love if it is restricted or conditional
The essence of love is lost
same
If freedom is limited
It is no longer completely free
It is a restricted state
Goodness is not pursued as absolute goodness.
There is no moral purity.
This means that
We should pursue the consistency of ideas
The definition of perfection should be expanded and enriched
To solve the problem
Rather than taking a moderate, relativistic attitude
Give up pursuit directly
The Strategy of Relativism
Resolving conflicts through compromise
For example, seeing the chaos caused by freedom
I think freedom should be restricted directly.
This way the contradiction disappears
And I think when concepts collide with reality
We should deepen the level and definition of concepts
Enable concepts to encompass and explain the complexity of reality
This is deeper than direct compromise and compromise
Those who like to say "Don't be too absolute about everything"
They actually think that
At least their words themselves are absolute
If we always follow different scenes
To compromise your own ideas
One moment I say I want freedom
One moment I say freedom cannot be too absolute
This will result in
We often take conflicting positions
The result is that it is easy to cause cognitive dissonance.
Self-awareness coherence and belief systems
It will also become fragmented
Therefore, people pursue perfection and ideals.
It is absolutely correct
The real problem with perfectionism is that
They pursue perfection
Not really perfect and rational
Even quite irrational
As Weber pointed out
Rationality can be divided into instrumental rationality and value rationality
Instrumental rationality focuses solely on the effectiveness of means
That is
How can an agent achieve a goal most efficiently?
Regardless of whether the purpose itself is valuable
That is, it excludes value judgments.
Taking a value-free stance
But value rationality means that individuals should
First of all, from the perspective of values
To examine whether the goal itself is worth pursuing
Does it meet people’s wishes?
Rather than just thinking about how to do it more efficiently
certainly
Any practical action contains both instrumental rationality and
It also contains the value rationality component
This is just for our convenience to think about
An ideal framework
The commonality between value rationality and instrumental rationality is that
They are all pursuing a clear purpose
Insofar as the subject has this clear sense of purpose
They are all rational
However, due to the goal pursued by instrumental rationality
It is utilitarian
Therefore, instrumental rationality dominates
It is inevitable to ignore people's emotional and spiritual values
Tendency to develop routine and rigid behavior
From the perspective of value rationality
This is precisely irrational.
Therefore, we say
The perfection pursued by perfectionism
It is often only perfection at the level of instrumental rationality.
In terms of value rationality, it is completely opposite.
Instrumental rationality
Based on a way of thinking that separates the subjective from the objective
There is an objective standard in the world
The subject should follow this standard
Who is closer to this standard?
Who is more perfect?
This method
Of course it is possible in the field of science and technology
but
When it is applied to individual psychology and self-perception
It becomes extremely one-sided and even distorted
Because it is separated from the so-called objective goal of the subject's perspective
Does not exist
For example
Many people think that who has a higher income?
Whose life is better?
Income Level
It should be an objective standard of universal significance.
But if a person is just following the crowd
Or the pressure of life
I chose a high-paying job.
And another person
After careful selection and reflection,
Choose a career you like more
So
Their living standards
It is difficult to quantify it through a certain indicator
To directly compare
Another example is the same video channel
My videos are all about my true thoughts
Recognition
certainly
It is more likely due to my identification with my personal thoughts.
But many bloggers largely
Is to cater to and please the audience
What they say is not what they really mean.
So
The subscription indicator
These two channels have completely different meanings.
Can't be directly compared
Same reason
The so-called objective goal pursued by perfectionism
It is often out of the subject's perspective.
An external and imposed standard
For example, a woman has been criticized by her parents since she was a child.
Always judge her for not being as quiet as other girls
Don't like doing housework
So
The woman may unconsciously agree with this judgment.
and internalize it
When she grew up, she developed this idea
It is perfect to keep the house spotless
This caused her to often fall into anxiety.
She will argue
Keep your home clean and tidy
It is of universal significance
However, regardless of whether this proposition is correct
The same goal is to clean up
The different motivations behind them
This can also lead to huge differences in the goals themselves.
for example
Some people do it out of genuine enjoyment.
I just went to do housework
In the process
He felt relaxed
Feel that I love my life more
So this is related to the anxiety and compulsion
Just doing housework
Obviously not equivalent
that is
There is no universal standard for cleanliness and tidiness
On the other hand
If this lady
Actively break and violate
That compulsive voice inside
Let yourself try according to your mood
To place furniture
Then this might look even more untidy
But it is closer to perfection
The same is true for the netizen we mentioned at the beginning
He said that he had been
Living in a very demanding and stressful environment
Parents believe in corporal punishment
Everything can be attributed to his lack of seriousness.
For example, you think your test scores are getting worse
Just a beating and scolding will make you better
No matter what he achieved
My father always finds some irony,
The angle of disdain and derogation
Sometimes this derogation is
Completely unreasonable
He recalled
He took notes in his books with a red pen in primary school
The father saw it and thought it was a mistake made by the teacher.
Then blurt out
How could you be so wrong?
His growth process
Full of such unreasonable nitpicking
It also made him develop a compulsive state.
I feel that no matter what
Can't achieve perfection
But this perfect nature
Actually
Individuals' rationalization and internalization of their father's authoritarian authority
That is to say, although at the beginning
Individuals are picked on by external patriarchy
Judgment and suppression
But children should avoid greater suffering
Choose to make this external threat
To rationalize as some kind of objective universal standard
Even when I grow up
His father can no longer control him at all times.
He still lives under an internalized patriarchal order.
This kind of order
Often in the name of ideal self, morality, superego
Issue orders to individuals
It is a cruel judge
It doesn't reward you for completing tasks.
Instead, it will ask you to do better.
Its goal is not to make you happy
It makes you always anxious,
Shame and guilt
Because only this
It can maintain its dominance
so
The inner heart of the parties
The so-called perfect and strict voice
Not only is it not perfect
And it is quite authoritarian and tyrannical.
The parties themselves
Procrastination and resistance in learning
And the failure of the postgraduate entrance examination caused by the inability to concentrate
Although it seems like a self-destruction
But in fact, it is better to say
It is the individual's attempt to break the alienated self
Break the image of an obedient person in the eyes of parents
The image of a hard-working and good student
Because only by breaking these things
Only individuals can rewrite the underlying logic of their own lives
Get real liberation
for example
It was because of the failure of the postgraduate entrance examination
He felt that he could not
Continue to act like you're studying hard
We have to face this fierce contradiction
If he succeeds in the postgraduate entrance examination
Just like the high school entrance exam
So it is conceivable that
He is in graduate school
Will repeat again
The internal friction and resistance during undergraduate studies
And it will be more intense
The various pressures in graduate school
For example, the tutor's evaluation, the college's assessment mechanism, etc.
May once again aggravate the inner
The power of the patriarchal order
If the person continues to follow his parents' expectations
Successfully entered a company or unit recognized by parents
And get married, have children
So
The entanglement between his alienated self and his true self
It will also be closer
Will cause
He may never be able to live his ideal life.
This is a bigger failure.
So once we recognize
The real goal
To get rid of false masks and alienated self
We can realize
Many things are considered failures in Chinese society
This is the beginning of true success.
That's it for today's video
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will put this video on
In this list: Psychology and Education
I also recommend you to watch
My other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!