I'm Zena Hitz. I'm a philosopher and a college 
professor. I teach at St. John's College of  
Annapolis, and the title of my book is Lost in 
Thought, the Hidden Pleasure of an Intellectual  
Life. Chapter 1. The Journey of a Disillusioned 
Academic I grew up in a very bookwormish family,  
amateur intellectual family. We read books, we 
talked about ideas, we got in arguments about  
petty facts. I went to a liberal arts college, I 
went to the college where I teach now, St. John's.  
I studied totally useless stuff, ancient botany, 
French poetry, and all kinds of things that don't  
get you anywhere in the world supposedly. I went 
to graduate school in philosophy and classics,  
and I ended up in very high-powered elite 
programs, and I was gradually disillusioned  
with academic life, both with the research and 
with the teaching. I had a kind of early mid-life  
crisis, so I was in my 30s. I guess that's still 
a mid-life crisis. I left. I joined to quit the  
profession entirely and lived in a monastery, 
a Catholic religious community for three years.  
When I was there, I really tried to encounter 
myself as a human being, not just a professor,  
not someone with a certain social status. And 
I wanted to think about, I didn't send it out  
this way in advance, this was just me working out 
my life. I wanted to figure out what intellectual  
life really was. What is this practice of 
reading and studying and thinking? Is it just  
a profession, something that we professors do, 
or is it something that really belongs to every  
human being as sort of our natural heritage? 
And it was my instinct that was the latter,  
and I started to see the ways in which that 
might really work in practice by living in this  
community full of ordinary people, where 
I didn't have access to the profession.  
One of the things I've tried to do in this book is 
to think about bad reputation that intellectuals  
sometimes have, and ways in which that bad 
reputation is deserved. So one of the things  
people say about people like me, professional 
intellectuals, is that we're lost in the stars,  
we're so withdrawn from ordinary features of life 
that we can't connect with other human beings,  
we can't connect with even our own bodies 
necessarily. And I think there's something in  
that. And it generalizes a bit past intellectual 
life into anyone who works with their mind and not  
with materials. There's something about working 
with materials, which is deeply wholesome. Washing  
dishes is one example, building things is another. 
And I think what's so wholesome about it is this,  
if you're doing something with your hands, 
something as simple as washing dishes or laundry,  
you're going to find things that will not work. 
You're going to find that reality resists your  
will. It's a bit easier to see with laundry than 
with dishwashing because they're those stains and  
no matter what you do, the stains are not going 
to come out. But it's true for dishwashing too,  
you're like, how am I going to get the grease off 
this pot? It's endless. It just keeps coming off  
the pot. Like, what do I need to do to get the 
grease off of it? There may be a point where you  
have to say, you know what, we're putting it away 
with some grease on it because I can't get the  
grease off. That's a pretty ordinary feature of 
our encounters with the world. It's the encounter  
of limitations, things that won't do what we 
want them to do, things that resist our wishes.  
What happens in the world of the mind that I 
think is really dangerous and one of the reasons  
why intellectuals have such a bad reputation and 
why that bad reputation sometimes justify is that  
you work in the realm of language and language 
doesn't fight back the way that reality does.  
You can tell yourself something is true and it can 
be totally false and it can sit there stubbornly  
for years without responding. In fact, wholesome 
functioning intellectual activity always involves  
something like that manual labor feeling of like 
coming up against reality. You're writing a term  
paper for your college class and the hours getting 
later and later. You had started with these grand  
dreams, you were the best paper that's ever 
been written and then finally it's two in the  
morning and you're dead and you realize it's just 
going to be a cruddy paper. That's a moment where  
like hard reality just cracks your ideas about 
yourself and what you want it to be. And likewise,  
I think a scholar who's really trying to find out 
the truth about something is they can have a pet  
theory and then they can find a piece of evidence 
and they just can't, the theory's got to go. That  
could be very painful. So I think for me, having 
always been good with words, good with language,  
I could kind of talk myself out of anything. 
And for me to spend time doing things like  
wash dishes or sweeping floors or working with my 
hands, it forced me to become more accustomed to  
that resistance of reality. And I think that's 
a piece of our humanity that's even broader than  
intellectual life. One sign that anything we're 
doing is going well is resistance. That means that  
we've... We have hit reality and that's where 
we want to be, I think, as human beings, where  
reality is. So I decided to leave the community. 
I would decide to go back to St. John's to teach,  
to put teaching more at the center of my 
intellectual life. And I started to read about  
what was called the crisis in the humanities. 
Really the collapse of the study of humanities in  
universities in the US. And I didn't feel that any 
of them were saying the things that I thought were  
true. And so I wrote this book in which I tried 
to communicate this understanding of intellectual  
life as a human thing that I've learned through my 
life experiences, as well as through my studies.  
So I had a personal crisis, which was in some 
ways related to the other crisis. In 2015,  
which was when was being written about, it was 
beginning to be noticed that contemporary colleges  
and universities, the study of the humanities 
was collapsing. So numbers of majors are down,  
departments are closing. And there's a loss in 
the common culture of the sense of why these  
kinds of study matter. And a lot of young people 
are under a ton of pressure to study pragmatic  
pragmatic fields, to get degrees that will get 
them lucrative or prestigious jobs. And that means  
that things like philosophy, literature, political 
theory, they're disappearing honestly from our  
academic institutions. And there's a threat that 
they'll disappear also from our common life.  
One possibility is that academic institutions, 
universities and colleges can reform themselves,  
can take a good look and see what they need to 
do to restore and preserve these modes of study.  
So I think that would be good if that happened. 
I wouldn't depend on that myself. There's a lot  
of pressures moving the other direction. So the 
thing I'm interested right now is really trying  
to find ways to bring it into ordinary lives 
of ordinary people so that it's built in so  
to speak into our ways of life. And there's 
an old tradition of that that goes back to  
features of the labor movement in the Britain 
and the US in the 19th and 20th century.  
Working people, people who would not normally 
have had the opportunities to have an education,  
formed grassroots organizations, reading groups, 
reading clubs. They gathered in the evenings. They  
read very serious books, Plato, Aristotle, Kant, 
Nietzsche, historical works, Eastern classics,  
you name it. And they educated themselves. They 
liberated themselves in a certain way, I think,  
from the diminishment of their surroundings. I've 
read some of the history of those movements and I  
think that something like that is possible now. I 
think that people can organize together informally  
within their communities. There's actually a lot 
of opportunities right now online to connect with  
others, to read seriously, to think seriously. 
Not for any special practical purpose, not to make  
more money, not to do some prestigious program or 
make a big PR splash, but just to grow and develop  
as human beings to recover people's sense of their 
own dignity, connect with others on a deep level,  
cultivate an inner life, cultivate a practice of 
looking at the questions that are fundamental to  
human existence, not as a professional thing, 
but as as an ordinary thing. Chapter two,  
what is an intellectual life? So I define it 
in a few different ways. One is that it's an  
inner life and by that I mean it's something that 
belongs to you in a certain way that's private.  
It's a part of yourself that really in principle 
no one has access to. It's the space of your own  
thinking. It's withdrawn from the world. And 
I mean the world in a very specific sense, a  
specialized sense, withdrawn from the social world 
insofar as it's the locus of status, competition,  
who's in with who, it's the world where your focus 
is on how you're evaluated, where you fit in in a  
certain structure or hierarchy, whether it's 
at the top or whether it's at the bottom. So  
you withdraw from that realm of competition. 
That's also part of intellectual life. I also  
think it's a source of dignity and it is a way 
of connecting with others. That's all the kind of  
abstract principles of it, the foundation of it. 
But it looks like things that are really pretty  
ordinary to most of us. Reading, thinking, 
speculating about people's motivations and  
what makes people tick, bird watching, walking in 
nature, mathematics. So it has a very wide range  
in human activity. And I think when you look at 
those activities and think about the elements I  
mentioned, you can start to get a glimmer of 
the kind of thing the intellectual life is.  
I think the clearest examples of things that are 
opposed to it are all of the practices connected  
with social competition. Advancing in one's career 
where that's a matter of status, forming a group,  
an in-group of people who are in the know, who 
are superior in some way, to those outside of  
it doesn't mean that you don't use your mind when 
you're pursuing this kind of life. And the kind  
of life I've just described is a life that could 
belong to all kinds of things. It could belong to  
a philosophy professor who was interested in 
getting into the most prestigious institution.  
It could belong to a stockbroker who had to make 
the biggest trades. So it's not exclusive to any  
specific walk of life, but it is an element that 
I think is in us and is a threat to all of our  
basic values. So what I was in the middle of 
saying is that you can use your intellect in  
striving for status. You might well be very good 
at it. There's an art to it, but you're using  
your mind as a means to an end. You're using it 
to get something else. You're using it in a way  
that's acquisitive. And what interests me is 
an intellectual life that's not acquisitive,  
that's not trying to get anything else, but just 
wants to be doing what it's doing that finds it's  
good in the activity itself. There's a wonderful 
book by a philosopher of Curran Cetia about the  
midlife crisis. And what he calls these activities 
are "telic" and "atelic." So there are activities  
which have their ends in themselves, which are 
worth doing all on their own, which parts of  
one's life would that feel like the culmination of 
one's life, where you're not looking for anything  
beyond what you're doing. So if you think about 
some examples, okay, reading or studying, you get  
lost in what you're doing, you're out in nature, 
you're not trying to get anything, you're just  
looking at it. Prayer, religion is a huge resource 
of this type of activity. Being with one's family  
or loved ones is probably the most common way 
it's lived. So there's a certain set of activities  
which we really seek for their own sake. And then 
there's so much of stuff we do for other reasons,  
usually to acquire those things. So you know, you 
go to the store to get milk, you apply for a job  
that might introduce you to a person that can 
get you connected with someone who can help you  
do the thing that you really want to do. There's 
a whole range of activities. Most of what we do is  
instrumental, it's a means to an end. So if you 
think about it, why do we work? We work for money,  
what's the money for? Sometimes the money is 
actually just for the sake of the work you're  
doing. And then you're caught in a kind of vicious 
cycle. You're using something as a means to an end  
as if it's a mean end in itself and you never 
ever get to the thing that your work is really  
for. And we have a kind of hyperactive workaholic 
society here in the US and I think also in Europe.  
So we have a tendency to get locked into this mode 
where we're acting for the sake of something else  
without ever getting this something else. So part 
of what my work is trying to do is to ask people  
to reflect on what the something else is. What's 
the thing that all of your busyness and all your  
activity is really for? One of the moments that 
really matter to you where you feel like this is  
the point, this is why I'm doing what I'm doing. 
Activities which have their end in themselves and  
which in some way could count as the culmination 
of a life. I say that last part because there's  
something like playing cards, which I love, okay, 
playing like card games. You're not usually doing  
it for any other reason. It's just a fun relaxing 
thing to do. If your whole life culminated in  
playing cards, you might not feel like that 
was a life you were proud of or that you felt  
that you'd accomplished something. So I think you 
want something that's being done for its own sake,  
but also is the thing which your work we're 
culminating in. Without those things, our lives, I  
think, are pointless. And it's in that area where 
intellectual life lies. So that's where reading  
and studying and cultivating an inner life. That's 
where it is. It's in that realm of things which we  
pursue for their own sake. We pursue just because 
they're what they are, because of what they do for  
us. Aristotle is a philosopher who I've studied a 
lot and spent some time with. He thought there was  
a danger of our lives becoming totally focused 
on these telek activities. He was involved in  
a definition of human flourishing, which he 
thought of as being not just a culmination of an  
individual life, but also something that political 
community had to aim at. And he has a couple of  
arguments that contemplation is happiness. So the 
best life is the contemplative life. And one of  
his arguments that the contemplative life is the 
best life is in terms of leisure. And the way he  
puts it is, work is for the sake of leisure, not 
the other way around. He also has another analogy.  
War is for the sake of peace. So he thinks of 
work as being analogous to war. It's this constant  
struggle you have just to get into place the 
conditions that you need for the things that you  
really care about, which are the works of peace. 
And leisure is like that. It's the analog of peace  
in ordinary life where we work and work and work 
and work. And then here's this thing, leisure. So  
he thought that that leisure was contemplation 
primarily. And he thought that contemplation  
was really philosophy. So he had a narrower view 
of what contemplation was than I do. He thought  
that it was philosophizing in the way that he 
philosophizes, which to be fair also included  
natural science, investigations into nature, 
animals, astronomy, and so on. But even so,  
it didn't include, say, I don't think, the kind of 
contemplation that we might have being with one's  
family and thinking about who they are and seeing 
them with appreciative love with loving vision  
that I think is a form of contemplation also, not 
one that Aristotle would have recognized. Even  
though Aristotle's dead, and he's been dead for 
thousands of years, there's a way in which reading  
an old book is like having a conversation. You 
always have to be looking for ways of connecting  
what you're reading to something that seems true 
to you. And sometimes you're going to find things  
that don't feel true to you. In fact, that's going 
to happen pretty often. So I think with Aristotle  
in a way, the best example of this, even better 
than the expansion of contemplation is he thought  
that the contemplative life was something only 
a few people could do. So he had a definition  
of human happiness. It was really something 
for, you know, a handful of rich gentlemen,  
definitely men, definitely rich, probably Greek. 
And what to me is interesting is you can look at  
someone like Aristotle. You can see that feature 
of his thinking, which is not something most of us  
would accept these days. But then you can also 
look at the part of his thinking about leisure  
and work and peace and war and what it means for 
an activity to be for its own sake. We can think  
about the questions that he's asking and think 
about the structures of his thinking. And then  
we can ask ourselves, well, what does that 
mean for all of us, not just for the rich,  
not just for Greeks, not just for men? And 
it actually in this case, I think it's not so  
difficult. So I don't think he imagined a world 
where so many people were literate were able to  
read and to write. But now we know, and that's 
one of the reasons why I love these histories of  
working people and their intellectual movements. 
It's for people that worked full time, they worked  
with their hands. They were the kind of people 
that Aristotle would have thought were good only  
for producing food or producing shelter. And he 
might have really thought of them as being means  
to an end, but they find a way within their 
work, after their work, around their work,  
through their work to think about things in a way 
that I think he might have understood, can't be  
confident of that, but he might have. And then you 
have an insight. The big historical change is the  
thing that I alluded to in "Ainland," just mass 
literacy, and the economy of book production, and  
other kinds of film and other kinds of media where 
very difficult, sophisticated, high-level thoughts  
and ideas are now very, very broadly available. 
So that's the first move that I think breaks  
what you might have thought was a historical 
necessity about intellectual life belonging  
only to a few people. We don't have the excuse 
anymore of literacy not being available, we don't  
have the excuse of books not being available. 
What we have instead is incredibly fierce,  
ruthless social competition and a sense in our 
schooling that achievement is the end of an  
education, which if you just translate into 
other words, that means being at the top of  
your class is the end of an education. Now if you 
think that through, that makes zero sense. Okay,  
you can't set up a whole educational system 
or a whole school so that some people end up  
at the top of the heap on some ranking. I think 
that this feature of today's young people, which  
is something which a number of other people have 
observed, it's not unique to me, and it comes with  
a regular qualification. So older people always 
have ideas about what the younger people are like,  
but it does seem that they are more fearful about 
uncertainty, about not knowing, about sitting in  
the space where they really don't know what the 
answer is going to be. They really don't know  
what's going to come out of their mouths. That's 
very uncomfortable. It's uncomfortable by nature,  
but it's particularly uncomfortable for these 
young people. I think there are two reasons for  
that. We have this relentless achievement culture, 
which I think has only gotten worse with time in  
our schools. So there's a sense that if you 
make a mistake, you're kicked off the totem  
pole. Everything's got to be perfect. Every flaw 
is going to be held against you, and it's going  
to affect your future dramatically. So it's all 
happening under the guise of anxiety about the  
future, anxiety about what kind of lives they're 
going to lead, what kind of success is going to be  
possible for them, where they're going to be able 
to get in the kind of schools that they want to  
do and into the kinds of professions they want to 
be in, and the intense competition that leads up  
to that. So the sense that any mistake is sudden 
death. The other reason, which is more general,  
is, and to me more frightening, in a certain 
way, is the internet has taught us to think of  
learning as information retrieval. So you have a 
question, you ask the internet, it tells you the  
answer. And that leaves, to the side, the question 
of where real learning takes place, which is, how  
did that person, and there's always a person who 
put that answer into the internet from which you  
retrieved it? How did they know that thing? What 
was their evidence? What were their sources? How  
did they reach that conclusion? So that they could 
put it in a place where you could go and retrieve  
it as information. And I think if you look, pull 
back the curtain on even pretty garden-variety  
pieces of information, you find that there's a 
result of a thinking process, which is open-ended,  
which is messy, which has stops, starts. And 
I think it's just the feature of any serious  
learning that to me gives it its authenticity, 
the sense that there's real learning taking place,  
is that sense of open-endedness and being lost. 
And you don't know where the answer's coming from.  
You get totally befuddled. You don't know what to 
do. Sometimes you're in that condition for quite  
a long time. You might be there for an hour, a 
week, a month, years, and then suddenly the thing  
you were looking for is present to you. This is 
a very ordinary intellectual experience once you  
become accustomed to that uncertainty and that 
discomfort of not knowing what's going to happen.  
It's one of my concerns in my writing and talking 
about intellectual life to try to recover it as  
something which is open-ended, where we put 
ourselves in a space where we don't know the  
answers. In a way, if we know the answers, that's 
the time we don't need to learn. So we should be  
moving always to the spaces where we don't 
know the answer, where the information isn't  
retrievable, because it doesn't exist, or it's 
not really information. What learning really is,  
what education really is, is the movement from one 
place to another. It's something I try to explain  
to my students pretty often, actually. It's not 
about getting to point Z. It's about starting  
from wherever you are and getting to some point 
that's further on. That's learning. So we have  
this very achievement-oriented educational system 
and with all of the social economic biases that  
are built into that, it's an achievement system 
that disadvantages the poor, disadvantages anyone  
who's different in any way, who stands out in 
any way from the people who govern things. That  
creates, I think, a sense that achievement and 
intellectual life are co-extensive. In fact, the  
way I understand it, not only is that not strictly 
true, it's in a way the opposite of what's true,  
because if you're chasing after achievement, 
you're not actually living an intellectual life.  
So you have a situation that I think is really 
perverse nowadays, where you might have a really  
high prestige professor, professional academic, 
professional intellectual, who's really not  
actually living an intellectual life, because 
all they're thinking about is advancing on these  
incredibly arcane ladders of status distinctions 
that academics make up, and I assure you they  
exist. Whereas you might have a taxi driver 
who reads like crazy, thinks about everything,  
has all kinds of very profound thoughts and does 
it all for its own sake. That person's living an  
intellectual life and more than the professor is. 
We might have been more used to that idea maybe a  
hundred years ago. For some time, we haven't been 
accustomed to thinking that way about learning or  
about intellectual life, that it's something which 
has to do with the attitude of the individual  
to what they're doing, and not somehow that 
person's social standing, that person's wealth,  
that person's raised, that person's gender, that 
person's whatever it is. It's something much more  
basic than that. The fact is, I think, even if 
you're at the top of the heap, even if you're in  
a high status position, that's not really where 
your value is coming from. That same judgment  
which arbitrarily rejected all these other people 
has put you on the top. What does that have to  
do with who you really are? Nothing. I was a very 
successful academic for a time. It looked to be at  
the beginning of a really accomplished career, and 
it felt somehow off to me. It took me some years  
to untangle why. I think it was something like 
this that is that in my restlessness as a younger  
person, my attempt to feel like I was worth 
something, I was just climbing whatever ladder  
I could find to get up. Now, I was a natural 
intellectual, so academia was a natural place for  
me, and I always had, I think, somewhere in me, a 
real love of learning. There were points where I  
think I was really just thinking about where I was 
on the totem pole, and that took over the way I  
was doing things in a certain way. I think that's 
an old story. I think that many people can tell  
stories like that. I achieve a kind of success, 
and there's an emptiness that comes with it and a  
sense of diminishment. It's a little mysterious 
because you're so fortunate, you're so lucky,  
there's so many people who want what you have and 
don't have it. On the other hand, what your real  
value is is something much lower down. For me, 
leaving my career, leaving my profession, going to  
a community where I was really, no one special, 
like everyone else. No, I washed the dishes,  
I swept the floors, like everyone else did, and 
some people knew I had this fancy philosophy  
background, no people didn't. I had to recover 
my value as a human being independently of what  
that status that I was getting from the outside 
previously. That's what a refuge from the world  
is. It's a place that everyone, winners and losers 
of the status game need, a place where your real  
value as a human being comes through, and it's on 
the one hand less than you ever thought it was.  
You can find your value as a human being washing 
dishes. What's more of a now than that? Anyone can  
wash dishes. On the other hand, it's also more 
than anything you would have thought it would  
be because it's something you have regardless of 
what other people think of you. You have a kind  
of freedom and a depth to yourself and resources 
within yourself that no one can touch. We think  
of being human as being a kind of biological fact, 
given to us from birth, but it is something which  
has the capacity to grow. We can always become 
more human. I think the ways in which we become  
more human are, my thought is very traditional. 
It's nothing original to me. It's knowledge and  
it's love. And these things are connected to one 
another. The more we see, the more we appreciate,  
the more we appreciate, the more we want to keep 
seeing. The mind is an engine for growth, for us  
becoming. More who we are, more human. Chapter 3. 
Unlikely intellectuals from Einstein to MC Hammer.  
In the book, I tell a lot of stories. I love these 
stories. Stories of people from in diminished  
social circumstances, in poverty, people with 
disabilities, people with abusive families, all  
kinds of people who are really under the enormous 
pain and pressure of social contempt. And those  
people find in books or in studying or in thinking 
or in looking at nature, they find a different way  
of looking at themselves than what they're being 
told from the outside. And they turn to poetry,  
to art, to thinking, to anything, anything in 
themselves that feels like a weapon against  
that diminishment that they're getting from the 
outside. And they have a dignity as human beings,  
which is inalienable. It can't be taken away. I 
did some volunteering in jails and prisons some  
time ago. I taught a couple of philosophy classes 
to prisoners. Again, these are very low status  
characters in our community. These are not people 
who have won the game of society. But they're full  
of thoughts and reflections. And the fact that 
they're confined and unable to pursue the things  
that a normal person can do in some way nurtures 
that. That's such to defend the prison system,  
which I think has all kinds of problems. It's just 
that there's a strange recovery of humanity that's  
possible there. And in a way, it's because you're 
pressed, I think, to the limit. So the examples  
historically are Malcolm X. Malcolm X's father was 
murdered by clan members. His family's after that,  
broken up by the welfare office. So his brothers 
and sisters are scattered into different families.  
He's the smartest kid in his class, and his 
teacher doesn't think he should be anything more  
than a carpenter. So he's kind of under the brunt 
of the weight of American racism in a way that  
was, I think about as bad as it gets. He got into 
selling drugs, running numbers, running gambling  
operations. He had a lot of involvement with the 
musical scene in Harlem also. So he also did some  
things connected to music. But he ended up getting 
arrested for burglary. He gets thrown in prison.  
And he reads the entire prison library when he's 
there. He changes his name. That's when he becomes  
Malcolm X. He has a religious conversion to 
Islam. He joins this group, the nation of  
Islam. And he comes out of there, a different, 
this focused person, who kind of looms for me in  
the American history in a special way. A person of 
incredible strength and honesty. And what seems to  
be like inner depth. He never stopped thinking 
about things and never stopped responding to  
realities as they revealed themselves. To me, 
it's a perfect example of that inner refuge,  
what the inner refuge really looks like, and 
its possibilities for us. The other stories are  
a bit less dramatic. People think being a 
graduate student and not getting a job is the  
worst thing could happen to you. And they don't 
remember that this happened to Albert Einstein.  
You have a weird kid, very absorbed in his own 
things. A member of an ethnic group, he's Jewish,  
that's not particularly high status, it's object 
of hatred and fear in the environment he's in. He  
goes to graduate school and physics, and he 
can't get a job afterwards. He has a family,  
so he has a wife and a child. He has support 
the family somehow and he can't get an academic  
job. So he gets this job in a patent office, he 
does his work, and then he sits and thinks about  
physics. He's doing that really in some isolation 
at that point from any academic community. He's  
been denied any serious prospect of advancement 
through doing it. And he's left just with his  
way of looking at the world, his mathematical 
training, and he calls in a letter he writes later  
in life, he calls the patent office the world the 
cloister where he hatched all his most beautiful  
ideas. And it's where he wrote these three 1905 
papers, which totally transformative for physics.  
So it was a place for him where despite being 
denied a place in the world that he aspired to,  
he was able to find with himself space where he 
could be who he was and think about what he wanted  
to. The Virgin Mary is in medieval and Renaissance 
art, often depicted reading. Sometimes she has a  
huge stack of books. And usually this scene is 
the annunciation, which is when the angel Gabriel  
comes and tells her she's going to be the mother 
of God, mother of Christ. And I wanted to know  
why she was reading and what it meant for the 
painters, people that were receiving this that  
she read. What I discovered was in fact there's a 
very old tradition of thinking of her as being a  
reader, as someone who knew the Hebrew Scriptures 
backwards and forwards, who had read the prophets.  
So she's read Isaiah where it says according to 
tradition that a version will conceive. And then  
this angel turns up and he's like, you're going 
to conceive a child. She's like, oh yeah, I know  
what you're talking about. That's something I read 
in Isaiah. That's just part of the tradition that  
she's fully aware of what's going on because 
of her study of the Scriptures. Here's this  
teenage girl. Not a high status character, not 
someone with a lot of power. Through her study,  
through her intellectual work, she gets into a 
different kind of space, a sense of her value,  
a sense of the way the world works. That's not 
the way that people tell her it is. The result of  
the angel's visit is that she's pregnant. She's 
engaged to someone else. A woman in that time,  
if you're pregnant without being married, you 
could be stoned and thrown outside the city. So  
she's undertaking this huge risk. And where does 
she get that strength? Where does she get that  
fortitude to choose this? And I think that part of 
the books is they're trying to give an account of  
that. That is, she reads and that inwardness, 
that wild refuge from the world. That's what  
gives her the strength in the fortitude to make 
choices which are really radical and strange and  
counter-cultural and dangerous. I don't watch 
a lot of sports, but when I do, it tends to be  
a big game and often I see spectacular things 
I remember for a long time. So I saw, I think,  
a playoff game against the Yankees, spustaben 
2004, and his leg was bleeding from Suture. So  
he had some injury that was literally bleeding 
while he's pitching. And he's pitching the game  
of his life, like just unbelievable athletic 
abilities. So it's just the kind of thing,  
even if you're not a sports player and you're 
just transfixed by this human excellence, this  
person who is resisting their physical pain, their 
physical weakness, and exercising their abilities  
to the highest degree. There's a way in which 
an inner refuge or inner strength could be seen  
as a kind of athletic achievement of the kind of 
curd-shilling house. So you discipline yourself,  
you just don't care about surroundings, you fight 
for your dignity and you just exercise it like a  
sport. And there's something about that that seems 
right that is there's part of having a refuge from  
the world is having a kind of discipline where 
you give up some things in order to achieve other  
things, very typical kind of thing. You see it 
everywhere, you see it in sports, you see it in  
art, you see it in finance, anything that you care 
about involves restricting yourself in order for  
a higher goal. But I suppose I wanted intellectual 
life to be a bit different. It can look like that,  
but I wanted it to be a kind of dignity that 
wasn't that didn't depend on our achieving things.  
So you think about curd-shilling, are you 
think about the ancient Spartans who, you know,  
like 300 of them stand against the invading army 
of Persians and you think, wow, human beings are  
amazing, they can do all kinds of stuff. But 
you're hearing about extraordinary people,  
you're hearing about exceptional people, you're 
hearing about people who have trained for this.  
I use all these examples of famous people, but 
I'm really interested in ordinary people. I want  
to know what's available to anybody. What kind of 
inner refuge is available to anybody that isn't  
just a matter of I'm a high achiever in the inner 
life. If I hear someone say something like that,  
I think, ah, there can't be a high achiever on 
the inner life. Inner life is something which is  
for everyone and achievement is not the right 
standard. But that's anyway the tension that  
I was struggling with when I was thinking about 
curd-shilling. So Sean Baker was a office worker  
in Essex. He worked at the British equivalent 
of AAA, so the automobile association. I read  
his biography, I'm not clear exactly what the work 
was, but I think it was probably about as boring  
as work gets, like paperwork, a pretty boring 
kind, a pretty pedestrian kind. He never went  
to university, but he loved literature. And at 
some point he got interested in Peregrine Falcons.  
He spent 10 years in his spare time on top of his 
full-time job chasing them by bicycle through the  
countryside near where he lived. So 10 years of 
aluminous maps, scrupulous notes, counted how many  
birds he saw Peregrine's killed, kept track 
of particular birds in particular locations,  
just absorbed everything within the reach of his 
bicycle about Peregrine Falcons he could get. And  
then he writes, he boils down all of his journals 
and diaries into this incredible short 200-page  
book called The Peregrine, which is a kind of 
poetic exploration of what it means to look at  
an animal, and what it means to look at a violent 
animal, an animal that lives by killing, and why,  
what happens to a human being when we 
look at an animal that likes to kill,  
and what tensions does that bring about in the 
person watching. Anyway, it's an incredible book,  
and it's also yet another example of someone 
who not a professional, an intellectual,  
not an academic, not a someone moving in 
the literary circles of his day, and it is  
a testament to the capacity that ordinary working 
people have to reach out into reality and really  
make something with their surroundings. It's an 
incredible book. It's an incredible book. I went  
on Twitter initially to promote my book, although 
I've actually made all kinds of amazing people  
there. M.C. Hammer is what is definitely one of 
the more remarkable, and I discovered at some  
point that he was posting scientific articles. 
Sometimes they were more popular scientific,  
but sometimes they were journal articles, and 
that he had a clearly particular interest,  
which he had studied to some depth into the 
nature of life and the nature of consciousness.  
So I started to look at what he was doing because 
it's another kind of example of the thing I'm  
talking about. Intellectual life, we think of 
it as being this contained academic thing, and  
in fact, it's something that everyone does. Now, 
M.C. Hammer is not just anyone. He's an extremely  
accomplished artist, producer, an entrepreneur, 
but the things which he's famous for have nothing  
to do with the scientific or philosophical account 
of consciousness or the nature of life. I was on  
Twitter too late, as always happens. He put up a 
video of the regeneration of plenaria, which are  
these flatworms that regenerate very quickly. So 
if you're interested in what a living organism is,  
its independence, its capacity to maintain itself, 
I would put it in a kind of poetic way, its  
dominion over material things. Plenaria, a perfect 
example, that's something that we study at St.  
John's. So he put up a video with no explanation, 
and I said, "God very excited." And then  
we started to have some conversations that we've 
had since then. So anyway, to me, it's a fabulous  
witness to the kinds of things that are available 
through the internet, through anything, to think  
about questions that are fundamental, that are 
serious, that are complex, and that there's  
nothing about them that's shut off from, you don't 
need to go get a degree in life sciences to think  
about why life matters or what consciousness is, 
and you don't need to produce an article yourself.  
I mean, he may, but I don't think it would matter 
if he did or he didn't. His understanding of this  
stuff is what matters, just as a matter for all of 
us. So MC Hammer is an example, and because of his  
fame, he's even a kind of emblem of the kind of 
intellectual life I'm talking about. For its own  
sake, it doesn't result necessarily in scientific 
papers. It doesn't come out of a graduate degree.  
It's just done because someone wanted to 
understand something about who they were  
and the world they lived in. All kinds of people 
can live in intellectual life, so carpenters,  
factory workers, taxi drivers, famous hip-hop 
artists. We can't see that because we're kind  
of enchanted by a mystique, which we have from a 
sort of Hollywood picture of an intellectual. That  
film, A Beautiful Mind is a perfect example. You 
have this mathematician who's a genius. He sees  
things no one else can see. He's in a class apart. 
He's not like you and me. And I think that that's  
a distortion of what an intellectual really 
is. And you can see that through an example,  
I think it was being intermediary, someone like 
Albert Einstein, who has that huge profile, who  
has the mystique of the genius, who has the puffy 
hair, and the million quotes that none of us could  
have come up with our own. But if you think of him 
as a young man in his late 20s with a wife and a  
kid and no job, because he's too weird, and he's 
too disrespectful of authority. He can't get work,  
and he has this job in a patent office. He's a 
bureaucrat, and he thinks about things. He looks  
at the clock tower. He looks at trains going 
by, and he starts to really have insights into  
the way the world is. You can see that someone 
like that is not that different from John Baker,  
the Essex office worker, who gets preoccupied 
with paragraphs. And John Baker, in turn,  
he wrote a wonderful book, so he's very famous. 
But how many bird watchers are there out there  
who are just looking at birds, taking them in, 
learning about them? Where does that knowledge  
go? Maybe gets passed on to their family or their 
friends or their fellow bird watchers. Maybe it's  
lost when they're dying, but it has that value 
in and of itself. And if you train yourself,  
as I have through these strange experiences that 
I've had and had been first heard of Blackdon,  
you start to see its ordinary forms as being 
more real, more emblematic, more central,  
more authentic than even the famous versions. 
And something like the image of John Nash and  
a beautiful mind starts to seem really fake, 
something that we imagine, but that doesn't really  
exist. The fantasy of an intellectual, whereas 
the real thing is something more extraordinary,  
but also more available to us in all kinds of 
surprising ways. And I really encourage people  
who are listening to us now or who are reading 
the book or listening to the book, just start to  
look for it in your daily life. Think about those 
weird relatives who lived behind your grandparents  
and worked in the factory and had this memorized 
all of Victorian poetry, or whatever it was. Some  
years ago, when I, my first essay on this came 
up, I got a letter from someone who I'd been in  
college with who had grown up in Nigeria. And 
he told me about growing up and capturing bugs  
and reading encyclopedias and studying the bugs. 
And I was thinking about this biography of Darwin  
that I read some time ago where that's what 
Darwin did as a kid. He catalogued the rocks  
in his yard. He did chemistry, you know, messed 
around with chemistry he found around the house,  
collected bugs and looked at bugs. And if you 
looked at what these people are actually doing,  
it's the same thing. I hope that that starts to 
break down some of the pedestals and the fantasies  
and our false ideas of what an intellectual 
is helps us to see it in our own lives. You  
can't leave to specialists, you're your basic 
humanity. If I'm right that intellectual life,  
thinking, reflecting, asking fundamental questions 
about yourself and your relation to the world,  
I think those are really just part of what it 
means to be alive, what it means to be human,  
what it means to be a member of a community. And 
we can't pretend that somehow only smart people  
get to do that or only rich people get to do that 
or only the winners get to do that. And I want to  
say it should be for everyone. Another way I want 
to say I don't need to argue for that because it's  
already taking place all the time, we just don't 
pay attention to it. There's in fact a wealth of  
intellectual activity that's going on all around 
us in very ordinary places. And it has, because of  
its littleness, its humbleness and authenticity 
for us. It can help us recover something,  
those of us who are like myself, winners who 
have relatively high social status, who are  
professional intellectuals, academics, what have 
you, can help remind us of what the point is of  
what we're doing. The point of what we're doing 
is not to add lines to the CV. It's not to get  
a slightly more high prestige job so that we can 
slightly diminish our teaching. It's to cultivate  
and practice ourselves this human activity, this 
thing that makes us who we are. Want to support  
the channel? Join the Big Think Members community 
where you get access to videos early, ad-free.