美股不是华尔街专利大家好我是米球君你们的美股探路者前不久美股灾难性的闪崩还历历在目转眼间股市就已经快要再创新高了抓住这波机会的人赚的是盆满布满然而也有不少人因为市场涨得太快仍然没有找到入场机会不过没关系不管你是哪一种下半年的美股市场注定都将给你更多的机会为什么这么说呢 In today's video, Mito will give you a comprehensive look at the US stock market in the second half of the year I have done this for you at the beginning of the year The whole year of the 25th year of the investment The viewers who have seen it must know that the US stock story in the first half of the year is basically developed according to our script 那下半年会如何呢我会从政策通胀经济企业盈利美联储等多个角度为大家深度解读一下美股市场让你全方位的了解到下半年的市场机会以及市场风险相信看完本期视频你就可以安心的掌控你下半年的美股投资了 在年初的全年展望中我说二五年美股市场最大的变量就是川普当时还没什么人买账我想现在应该不会有人再质疑了而下半年川普依旧是美股最为重要的变量之一所以首先我们有必要先来分析一下川普政策对于下半年美股市场的影响 说到政策相比大家最先想到的就是关税这是上半年浇动市场的罪魁祸首但事实上下半年有比关税有更为重要的政策需要咱们关注首先是川普的大美立法案 大美利法案是川普自称的它实际上就是川普上任一直以来所主推的那个减税法案目前预计法案将会在8月到9月之间落地虽然该法案在程序上还有些反复但最终通过的可能性是非常大的根据不同机构的评估本次法案能够给美国GDP平均带来1%左右的提升这对于市场来说自然是一个非常积极的利好 不过本次法案也有他争议的地方他其实可以类比成拜登时期的财政刺激政策当时的拜登政府为了挽救疫情时期疲软的经济是直接给民众和企业发钱发补贴而川普政府的减税则是通过少收钱将财富放到民间去本质上都是靠政府释放资金投入市场去提振经济作用都是类似的 然而这两者也都有同样的副作用那就是他们会显著增加政府的财政赤字从而带来更高的债务规模头号高盛就预计本次大美立法案政府将会在未来十年内给联邦赤字累计增加6万亿美元 既然有好也有坏那这个大美立法案对于美股来说究竟会有怎样的影响呢事实上大美立法案短期对美股一定是利大于弊的减税相当于是企业立刻就能赚到更多的钱那么经济提振企业盈利的提升就都是力干见盈的事情 而且这对于美股公司来说是全方位的利好而美债问题则是长期的问题短期并不存在真正的风险所以对于市场来说影响有限因此仅对于今年下半年而言大美利反案绝对是非常值得期待的一个利好 Another policy that will happen in the second half of the year is to take over the control Currently, the policy of taking over the control has not yet been paid attention to by the market After all, the rule of law is a slow process And Trump's personnel arrangement has also wasted a lot of time But from now on, we can start to look forward to some plans to take over the control 这些法案主要会体现在金融行业上根据大摩的预计下半年将会密集出台各类对金融行业放松监管的提案银行将会有更大的权力去动用那些过剩资本这下银行就能更多的给经济赎取盘活经济从而刺激到股市另一个去监管的方向是加快反垄断的审批流程别小看这一点它会刺激金融市场上的收购和并购的发生带来资本的放大对于股市来说也是一大利好 2017年上一次川普上台后的第一年美股全年上涨了20%大摩在做全年总结的时候就说It's all about deregulation意思就是这波上涨全要靠川普的去监管那么这次川普的去监管是否也能够复制17年的动能呢我认为可能性是非常高的 The two policies mentioned above are still the more friendly policies for the market But I guess what we really care about is the tax burden How will the tax policy affect the market in the second half of the year? I found after looking at almost all the big investment banks In fact, they have no controversy about the tax It can even be said that the consensus has been formed The conclusion is that the tax will no longer be a systemic risk for the US stock market Now the market has seen through Trump's routine First, extreme pressure, the purpose is to create a bargaining chip Then reach an agreement through negotiations Judging from the results now, all of Trump's policies are for negotiations Not once hard to get The risk of tariffs is still there, but only in the extreme pressure stage You may see the negotiations falling into the trap, or see Trump suddenly pushing the market. The market may also fall in the face of this. But this kind of risk is more short-term, not a systemic risk. In other words, you will hardly see the panic of the market's collapse like in the early years. I personally think the main view of the organization is very beautiful We have analyzed that Trump's tax policy is not a nonsense But will be controlled by the two red lines of public opinion and US debt This is a result that has been verified over the past period So I don't think that taxes will happen beyond our tolerance 而财政贝森特也一再的表示美国上半年还是拜登经济的延续下半年川普的政策才会真正开始见效现在所有人都在等着这个见效要是川普拉了脱大的那可就丢人了在这种情况下我认为政策的下行风险将会越来越低如果下半年真的出现任何政策风险导致了股市下跌我想风险都会是非常短期的这反而会是我们投资者不错的买入机会 整体来看,下半年的川普政策对于股市来说是偏积极的关税风险已经过了最糟糕的时候剩下的只是局部的或者临时升级的风险而已而减税和去监管,预计将会在下半年开始发力整体的政策从上半年的抑制性将会180度转向,变成支持性的 所以我们投资者对于政策也需要做一个态度的变化事实上过去这一个月市场已经开始press in这个变化了美国也开始了快速恢复不过减税和去监管都是势能较长的利好在下半年仍将持续支撑股市的上涨 如果说川普的政策是由坏转好的话那么通胀就是完全相反的剧情了在下半年他很可能由好转坏为什么这么说呢 我们不妨先来看看最新的通胀数据在最新的CPA数据中5月CPA环比仅上涨了0.1%低于市场预期的0.2%年化涨幅仅有2.4%而更为重要的核心CPA也是仅涨了0.1%大幅低于市场预期的0.3%年化涨幅为2.8% These two data are in a continuous decline, and the current account is not only a risk, but also a motivation to support the growth of the stock price. However, this situation is likely to change soon. We have analyzed before that the price growth brought by the tariff is post-economic. 因为大的零售商们往往都有三个月左右的存货即便商品加了关税影响也不会立马就能体现出来但是一旦存货耗光了关税所带来的物价上涨就会逐渐释放出来了2017年上一轮川普贸易战中就曾发生过同样的剧情物价也是在加关税后三个月后才开始慢慢抬头也就是说关税它不是不会带来通胀而是现在通胀还没来得及出现而已 According to the model forecast of Ruiyin, the inflation will start to rise in June and reach its peak in September this year, near 3.5% of the annual year. I have seen a lot of similar studies, and the investment bank generally predicts that the inflation will rise in the second half of the year, but the range is not certain, from 0.3% to 1% And this, in my opinion, will become an important risk for the U.S. stock market in the second half of this year. 事实上对于股市来说通胀本身并不是风险真正的风险在于美联储的应对在本次联储例会上鲍威尔已经明确表示他很在意关税给商品端通胀所带来的影响想象一下如果通胀从现在的2.4%三个月内上涨到了3.5%你觉得美联储他还能按计划降息吗 现在市场是普遍预计9月份美联储会进行年内的第一次降息而如果到时候通胀抬头反而达到了顶峰美联储反而降息了那民众会怎么想呢所以说一旦通胀抬头很可能就会打乱下半年美联储降息的节奏这会使得金融市场保持更长时间的紧缩这注定会给美股带来负面的冲击 不过如果你是一名长期投资者那么拉长视野来看这次的通胀影响结果会完全不同为什么这么说呢我们不妨来看一张瑞银模型预测的细分通胀的走势图可以看到图中黑色的柱子也就是服务通胀未来会持续的下滑这很好理解毕竟服务通胀几乎不受到关税的影响而且现在服务通胀中占比最高的房租部分在持续的下行基本没有抬头的可能 The real threat to the inflation is the most affected by the tariffs, the commodity and food tariffs, which are the red and green pillars in the picture. So what does this picture mean? That is, if there is no tariff-related commodity tariff, the United States' tariffs are destined to continue to decline. Now the threat of inflation is entirely caused by the tariffs. This conclusion is very critical. What investors need to know is that the tariffs brought by tariffs are one-time. Taxes can only be added once, it is impossible to add every year. So even if the tariffs are raised, they will be restored very quickly. For the US and the US, they naturally need to take care of the emotions of the short-term market and the people So if the inflation is really rising, they have to do something about it But these people know very well that what they are really afraid of is long-term inflation And this kind of suspicious inflation is not worth worrying about So I think even if the inflation is really rising The US and the US will at most delay its decline and will never take more tight measures And in the future, they will soon return to the loose policy 那么对于市场而言通胀抬头 眼后降息这些还是大概率会带来一定的恐慌的但如果你有能力拉长视野看懂了通胀背后的逻辑你就会发现这样的恐慌持续不了太久所以这反而会是另一个我们在下半年好的入场时机 The stock market is the economic compass, and the economy is the basic face of the stock market. The current U.S. economy is still covered in the worry of retreat. On the one hand, the high interest rate maintained for a long time is like a interest rate that has been hanging on the top of the head. The longer the hanging time, the more likely it is to cause a fall. 而另一方面,川普的关税政策又在伤口上撒了一把盐,也对于经济会造成很大的压力。那么,现在的美国经济究竟如何了呢?下半年是否有衰退的风险呢?最新的亚特兰大联储GDP预测数据显示,二季度美国GDP仍能够高达3.4%。 Of course, there are some false claims brought by the stock market in the first quarter, but overall, the growth rate is still very strong. But now the big investment banks still generally expect the economy to gradually start to slow down in the second half of the year. The following picture is a prediction of the US GDP. They believe that in the second half of the year, the US GDP will probably drop to 0.5% to 1% and the reason for the drop in power is mainly the contraction of consumption and trade. Trade 生活在美国的看官应该都了解现在的美国就业市场非常的诡异一方面失业率极低似乎就业状况很好而另一方面普通人找工作又非常的难好像就业市场又很差那这究竟是为什么呢下面这张图或许能够给出我们答案 The blue line on this picture is the increase in the number of positions vacant, and the yellow line is the increase in the number of employees. You can see that the company's employees are still in the historical position, but the recruitment is in the fastest speed in history. In other words, although the companies are not hiring, they are not hiring people. According to market expectations, the increase in non-farmers will be from the first half of the month, 144,000 people, and the last half of the year, about 50,000 people. This is definitely not the performance of the economy, but the state of companies' But fortunately, the expansion of the epidemic period has made many people stand still, and the immigration policies that Trump has collected in the future have reduced the number of immigrants. So even if companies don't want to recruit new people, the overall labor supply is also declining. 这至少就能稳定住失业率不至于快速爬升目前市场预计下半年的失业率会从现在的4.2%小幅提升至4.5%只要失业率还是健康的美国就没有太高的衰退风险 There is also such a very interesting data to share with you for the risk of retreating The following is the fallback rate of the Polish company Polymarket You can see that the probability of the US fallback is still up to 65% a month ago And now the probability of falling back has dropped to 27% Why is this decline? Obviously, it is caused by the reduction in the risk of Trump's tariffs on us This also confirms the analysis of our policy on tariffs on us Do you remember why we said that the market was worried about falling back? One reason is the tariffs, and the other is the high interest rate of the Fed. Now the risk of tariffs has dropped significantly, and only the high interest rate is left. However, this is also a place for a leap. Now the US dollar's interest rate is obviously low, which means that it has a positive effect on the economy. But from another angle, this also means that the US dollar has plenty of space to lower the interest rate to deal with the potential economic downturn. In comparison, the European Bank has dropped 8 times, and the current policy interest rate is only 2%, and the interest rate of the US dollar is still 4.25%. It can be seen that the US dollar's current policy position is quite active. If there is any sign of a decline, the US dollar can greatly stimulate the economy by lowering interest rates. 换句话说就是传说中的Fatput还在这对于美股市场来说将会是一个重要的支撑那有人要说了如果通胀抬头了怎么办呢咱刚刚不是聊过吗如果通胀抬头美联储注定不会开始降息那如果此时刚好又改善了经济出问题该怎么办呢会不会造成更为严重的滞胀风险呢我个人认为不会 As we said, the就现实的情况来看通胀抬头要么不发生如果发生应该很快就会见到了 On the other hand, the economy is still relatively stable It's really stressful to hold on for a while It won't fall into decline so quickly This time difference may give the Fed enough space to make policy decisions It will also give the market enough chance to breathe So overall, the US economy will continue to suppress in the second half of the year, and the recovery expected will not come so soon. So logically, the economy will hardly become the driving force for the growth of the US stock market in the second half of the year. But the fallback risk that everyone was worried about in the first half of the year has now been significantly reduced. So it won't bring a crisis to the market in the second half of the year. And even if there is a problem, the Fed put in the Fed is still there, and it has enough support for the US stock market. [Company's profit] The above analysis, either the policy or the economy, are relatively optimistic. And corporate profit is the variable that directly affects the performance performance of US stocks. From the perspective of the above optimism, the inflation, economy, and the Fed, not to mention how much of an advance in corporate profit, but at least it has not brought any risks to corporate profit. Considering the influence of tax reduction and gas control, all the red-closed elements of the above analysis are relatively friendly to the profit of the enterprise. What is the actual situation? In the first quarter of the past year, according to the data from FactSight, the share of the BIO 500 was more than 13.3%, which was more than the market expected. And the annual profit index is 8.9% higher than the average history It can be seen that if it is really on the business profit The situation even looks more optimistic than the changes in the macro So why is this happening? In addition to the promotion of the macro factors mentioned earlier The most critical factor is AI This is what I emphasized at the beginning of the year when I was doing the annual investment exhibition The U.S. stock market Half a year has passed The current AI is a comprehensive improvement for the U.S. stock market On the one hand, AI has brought a significant effect of reducing capital increase to the enterprise, which can significantly improve the profit of the enterprise. On the other hand, the continuous development of AI not only increases the current profit, but also increases the future profit index. More importantly, AI will not only optimize the profit in the amount, but also bring a huge increase to the entire market. According to statistics, the capital expenditure on AI this year will increase by 33% compared with last year, with a 20% prediction that is higher than the beginning of the year. This shows that AI development is not only accelerating, but also faster than imagined, and therefore the number of companies that benefit from it is countless. I personally have a very good view of the direction of AI investment Before Chess GPT appeared I kept making videos and sharing relevant opportunities with you A few years have passed AI has verified its ability to become the next generation of subversive technology revolution And now is the early stage of this technological development In the second half of this year I think AI will continue to bring a boost in profit to relevant companies Which supports the growth of the entire U.S. stock market Here we have done a comprehensive analysis and prediction of the next half year's US stocks. Now we can answer the most important question. How should the US stocks invest in the second half of the year? Overall, looking at the US stock market in the second half of the year, I think this may be the best time for our investors to invest. From the policy, the market's most worried about the risk of tax cuts is declining. Tax reduction and control will be gradually實現 The policy gradually turned from a negative impact to a stock market dynamic And on the economic basis, although it has also undergone some pressure But the knees are good and there is also the support of FEDPUD So it is also difficult to bring any impact to the stock market The overall macro environment is very friendly for the US stock market Can continue to support the growth of US stocks The risks to be taken are the rise in the inflation and the possible increase in the tariffs. These may bring a certain impact to the stock market. But fortunately, these risks are relatively short-term. For long-term investors, they are not afraid of short-term risks, but rather afraid that the country will rise without hesitation and will not find an opportunity to enter the market. And in the second half of the year, these risks will be our good entry time. Because such a shock comes and goes fast In this case, By the Dip is a very good investment strategy Speaking of By the Dip, there is actually such a capital-side power Supporting this trading strategy The recent US stock market has been growing too fast And it's the kind of growth that doesn't have any turning back This means that many people have not yet had time to fill the slot Not only the retail investors, but also the institutions that have the capital They care more about the risk than our retail investors So when the April water crisis came A lot of funds were withdrawn And so much money is actually waiting for the next opportunity to enter This will lead to a large number of buy-and-sale support for any stock market fall in the future Then the fall will not be deep and will not be long This is a good time to buy the dip 唯一可能带来系统性风险的危机目前看来就是地缘政治风险了这两年的地缘政治风险加剧是有目共睹的局部的战争以及中美两个大国之间的博弈都日趋白热化任何一处升级都可能会改变美国的格局尤其是最近中东的战争已经导致了油价的飙涨如果不能及时恢复那是有可能对于经济造成更大的冲击的 But we can see the trend of geopolitical risks, but we can't predict it at all. For this kind of black swan risk, my personal opinion is that don't respond in advance, but wait for the risk to come and then respond. Finally, the most important thing is the subversive technological revolution of AI. This is a long-term big trend that can continue to provide the market for the US stocks to rise. Investing in AI is also my personal favorite track. And in this track, the US stocks have the best opportunity in the world. In the second half of the year, I believe that AI will continue to promote the growth of the US stocks and bring more investment opportunities. In summary, I am very optimistic about the US stocks in the second half of this year. I think there is still room for further breakthrough in the second half of the year. It should be easy to break through the money. The target price at the end of the year should be more than 6500 points. This is my personal investment prejudice. Share it as a reference for everyone. Also welcome everyone to discuss in the comments section. Thank you all. At the end of the video, I would like to remind you again that the "Each Skiing Shop" promotion event will soon be over. This time, the "Each Skiing Shop" promotion activity is the most powerful ever. If you need to watch, please click the "comment" to check the details of the event. Thank you for your support. See you next week.如果你喜欢美投君的视频别忘了点赞关注和转发哦谢谢大家