RON FRIEDMAN: Over the last few years, my team and 
I have done a deep dive on what high performing  
teams do differently. We surveyed thousands of 
workers, and asked them two key questions about  
their teams. Number one, how effective is your 
team at meeting its goals? And number two is,  
compared to other teams in your industry, 
how would you rate your team's performance?
Then we took the teams with a perfect score, 
a very tiny group we call super teams,  
and looked at what are the super teams doing 
differently on a day-to-day basis? And we  
looked at everything from how they structure 
their day, to how they run their meetings,  
to even how they recover in the evenings 
and weekends. The patterns were striking.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Superteams share three key strengths. The first is 
they get more done by better managing their time,  
energy, and attention. The second 
is they don't just collaborate well,  
they actively make one another better. And 
the third is that they're not satisfied doing  
great work. They're constantly building 
their skills and improving over time.
In today's discussion, what we're 
going to cover is the latter of the  
three strengths how super teams get 
better over time. At most companies,  
getting better is surprisingly difficult, 
and that's because improvement requires  
two things that most businesses are 
not particularly comfortable with--  
and that is risk taking and failure. Trying 
something new often involves making mistakes.  
Unless the team feels comfortable making those 
mistakes, learning simply becomes impossible.
There are a few tactics that I often see 
on superteams. The first is that they are  
constantly experimenting. The other thing that 
they are very high on, is they're very high  
on something called feedback seeking. And the 
third thing is that they reward innovation. And  
so we tend to see more people trying new things, 
because there's more of an opportunity for people  
who come up with new ideas to incorporate 
what they find into their career path.
An experiment is a low, small risk test 
that allows your team to learn something  
new before committing to a decision. By 
definition, if you know it's going to work,  
it's not an experiment. You're exchanging 
efficiency for information. So even if it  
doesn't work out, even if the experiment is 
a failure, you're going to learn something  
that helps you improve in the future. I 
think that there are simple things that  
any leader can do to incorporate this 
learning and experimentation mindset,  
and part of it is having a weekly review of 
experiments that are ongoing, regardless of  
whether they were successful or failures. The 
idea is to socialize some of these findings  
so that people appreciate that this is something 
that is a routine way in which this team operates.
One of the things we from the research 
is that 85% turns out to be a pretty good  
indicator. You're looking for 85% success. 
It tells you you're generally successful,  
but it also tells you you're failing a 
small portion of the time-- and that is  
suggestive of someone who is stretching, 
while still performing at a high level.
One of the fascinating findings in our research on 
superteams is that the quantity of feedback that  
they receive on a regular basis is much higher 
than those on average teams. And part of it is  
because the leader is delivering feedback more 
frequently, and they're doing it in a way that  
is motivating rather than judgmental. But on 
superteams, people get more feedback from their  
colleagues. And it's not because their colleagues 
are pointing out mistakes that they're making.  
It's because they're sharing their work early, 
they're getting input from their colleagues,  
and they're making revisions before the 
work gets to the boss or to the client.
There are a couple of things that leaders 
can do to get their team higher in feedback  
seeking. The first thing is, focus on the 
future, not the past. The second thing is,  
don't provide a laundry list of 
all the things they need to change.  
Focus on one small thing they can 
change to get better in the future.
And the third thing is, when possible, try 
to make it a conversation. Don't just say,  
here's what I need you to do. Say, here's what 
I think might help in the future. What do you  
think? That's the kind of feedback that gets 
people feeling energized rather than judged.
One of the things that superteams do 
really well is they reward innovation.  
And my favorite example of this is GM, the 
company that is best known for Post-Its and  
for Scotch Tape. They've been around for over 
120 years. The question is, how do you create  
a company that is so effective for so long? 
One of their secrets is rewarding innovation.
At 3M, they have a policy called the 30% rule. 
In order for a division to earn its bonus, at  
least 30% of its revenue must come from a product 
introduced in the last four years. And I love this  
approach, because it ensures that even if things 
are going well, your team will not coast, because  
they're constantly worried about what's next. One 
of the keys is rewarding intelligent failure. And  
what that refers is the idea that when someone 
takes a real risk and it doesn't work out,  
they get the same level of reward as someone 
whose experiment resulted in a giant success.
I think unless you're seeing some degree of 
failure or setbacks, what it suggests is not  
that everything is going perfectly, but you're 
not stretching your skills or developing in an  
ongoing way. Part of what leaders need to 
let go of is the desire for perfection,  
and instead embrace the progress mentality-- 
and that requires portfolio thinking. You're  
going to have some degree of risk, 
and that's what's going to lead to  
ongoing improvement. But if you have no 
risk and everything is going perfectly,  
it doesn't mean you're getting everything 
right. It means you're falling behind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]