Hi everyone, I'm Anthony.
Welcome back to my channel
Today I want to talk to you about "repression".
In the previous video
We discussed idealism and devaluation.
This set of psychological mechanisms
At that time we talked
For individuals who grow up in an insecure environment
The experience of a good or bad object is difficult to integrate.
Facing abusive parents
Children may develop split personality or primitive idealization.
These primitive psychological defense mechanisms are used to protect oneself.
That is, the attitude of the parties involved towards the same person.
From one extreme to another
And the parties involved in each
Immersed in it throughout the stages
I can't feel the contradiction between these two states.
In his eyes, the other person could only be either completely good or completely bad.
Drastic switching and oscillation between the two states
Without its own depth and complexity
Because of what the parties involved felt
Both love and hate are extremely intense.
Therefore, his external behavior also
It could be very radical.
At the end of the last video
We also talked about this state of being able to love and hate intensely.
Often during adolescence or early adulthood
It was mistaken for a kind of personality and charm.
And those who are accustomed to examining complexity and introspection
On the contrary, it seems to be more internally conflicted and entangled.
Therefore, it doesn't seem that cool.
So, this video...
I want to follow this conclusion
Exploring a rather counterintuitive proposition
I think repression is actually a kind of
A highly sophisticated psychological defense mechanism
I will put this video in
The list of "Psychology and Education"
If you have any requests to contact me
Topics for discussion and consultation
You can contact me via email to make an appointment.
But before we officially begin the discussion...
I'd like to start by talking about the past few years...
Chinese online short dramas are becoming increasingly popular.
This kind of drama only lasts a few minutes per episode
It created a tremendous miracle
The number of views often reaches tens of millions or even hundreds of millions.
So what makes these short dramas so appealing?
The key lies in its extremely high density of conflict.
and unthinking aggression
In these scripts
The protagonist faces severe harm, betrayal, and abuse.
At first, I always endured it again and again.
Suffering humiliation
This is to draw hatred towards the villain.
At the same time, it also helps one accumulate moral capital.
When anger and resentment accumulate to a certain degree
It started to erupt.
The protagonist may suddenly reveal his true identity.
For example, he might actually be the world's secret richest person.
Or the leader of a large organization
Then they began to punish those who had hurt them.
An article from the WeChat official account "Polar Day Studio"
It was about a girl who created short plays.
One of her hit short dramas
It garnered 80 million views.
This show is about a fighting master.
She concealed her identity as a wealthy woman
He was humiliated by the villagers.
Moral blackmail from relatives, etc.
However, the teacher gave her feedback.
They said she didn't portray the female lead as ruthless enough.
Suppressing emotions too much
So now she's not conflicted anymore.
Writing a female-centric story is all about having a good time.
Slap him if you must.
I am the boss of this world
An article has analyzed this.
The first generation of short dramas averaged one episode every 90 seconds.
Once, he knelt down, slapped her, and passionately kissed her.
In a short drama with over 1 billion views
The main character slaps the villain 10 times in one episode.
After beating her husband, she beat her son.
Of course, slapping someone right off the bat won't do.
It is necessary to create exciting moments.
There should be a sense of hierarchy.
The protagonist must first suffer.
Go to abuse again
As one of our partners pointed out...
The plot should never require the audience to think.
What the audience gets from this kind of content is
A kind of pleasure from the unhindered release of aggression.
Humiliation was piled up as much as possible.
This kind of counterattack is what makes people feel satisfied.
No part is allowed in the middle
Thinking, hesitation, and self-doubt
Once the audience starts thinking
That pleasure disappeared.
The reason why short dramas can become
An ever-growing industry
It is precisely because it struck a chord with this era
A common psychological need
People want to accumulate inner strength.
The aggression was immediately released.
And this has also quietly permeated...
In our current social culture
In our everyday language
The word "suppression" is almost entirely a negative concept.
We often hear this kind of statement
For example, don't suppress yourself.
It needs to be released.
Be true to yourself
In this kind of discourse
The one who expressed emotions so vividly
Love passionately
When they hate, they are ruthless.
Tear it up as soon as you want
A person who never engages in internal conflict or gets caught up in trivial matters.
It seems to be more authentic and free.
Those who often fall into hesitation and doubt
And people who will repeatedly examine themselves afterward.
Instead, it seems like an unhealthy weakness.
Some friends might say
I live a very repressed life every day.
Being ostracized by superiors and colleagues
And the moral blackmail from parents
But the repression here refers to...
Suppressed by external powers
This kind of external pressure often
It makes us feel powerless and frustrated.
The repression we are talking about here is...
Repression in the Psychoanalytic Context
It does not refer to external imposition.
The oppression and constraints imposed on us
Rather, it is an internal psychological defense mechanism.
That is, when we encounter a certain crisis
When feeling intense hatred or destructive urges
We did not immediately take action in reality.
It wasn't something that could be done on a whim.
Instead, I kept it in my heart for the time being.
That is, to seal in this dangerous energy.
On the edge of the subconscious or conscious mind
Of course, this energy won't disappear into thin air.
It still manifests through dreams, insomnia, and anxiety.
Or it may remind us through certain physical symptoms, etc.
We must call upon greater energy
To bear this anxiety and pressure
Of course, this kind of repression is not...
The ultimate solution to the conflict
It will urge us at some point
Take action to change the status quo
But first we need to be with ourselves.
Embrace this conflict in your heart
Instead of directly releasing aggression through action
People who lack the ability to suppress
Like a cup filled with boiling water.
As long as there is even a slight fluctuation
The water will overflow and scald others.
The person involved could not accept it in their heart
And digesting the energy of these conflicts
Aggression must be immediately directed at another person.
Or it could be emitted into the entire outside world.
Although this is in a short period of time
It brought a sense of cathartic pleasure.
But this is actually a very...
Primitive and regressive states
So, having said that...
Some friends might disagree with Anthony
Are we just going to keep holding it in forever?
Faced with injustice and harm
Expressing aggression
Is it wrong to rise up and resist?
That's not what I meant.
Expressing aggression is not wrong
Moreover, it is about an individual establishing their own boundaries.
Necessary means to protect subjectivity
However, in current popular culture
I think many people are confused.
Two completely different types of aggression
One type is the result of thorough consideration and integration.
The resulting extremely powerful and precise aggression
For example, after a person has made thorough preparations
Fight against the person who oppresses you
His attitude toward the various consequences and
The possibility has been sufficiently estimated.
Another type is unthinking, spontaneous venting.
For example, many people highly admire the ability to tear things up whenever they want.
A life attitude that rejects mental exhaustion
And the worship of that kind of world-destroying rage
For example, regarding Zhang Xianzhong, Pol Pot
Or the worship of North Korea and Putin.
Many people do not admire their military strength.
Objectively speaking
Their military strength is not the strongest.
Many people truly admire
In fact, it is what they present
That tendency toward narcissistic rage
That is, in a fit of rage, they would not hesitate to...
The momentum to drag everyone down with them
As Putin famously said:
"Without Russia"
The world would have no reason to exist.
When a person lacks inner...
When a sufficiently powerful psychological container
When he felt pain
Feeling oppressed
His destructive power
The energy must be released immediately.
However, due to a lack of necessary thinking
His immediate outburst
The target attacked by destructive energy
It's often not that at all.
The people who truly oppressed and hurt him
Rather, it was a substitute unrelated to his actual situation.
Because one must recognize the true nature of things.
What is suppressing oneself?
He needs to temporarily...
Suppress your aggressive urges
Because the true oppressor is often the powerful.
Or rather, it's hidden.
He might be your superior.
It might be the parents and the underlying concept of filial piety.
Or it could be some kind of massive and invisible structural pressure.
It is dangerous to express anger to them directly.
Therefore, many people directed their anger, which was originally directed at the strong, towards the powerful.
They were quietly moved to a safe place.
The substitute that will not bring retaliation
For example, someone gets upset outside.
When I get home, it's because of something extremely small.
Taking anger out on a weaker partner or child
Or they may regain a sense of control by exerting control over their family members.
Or on the Internet
A complete stranger
Or for someone who made a minor mistake
Violent cyberbullying against vulnerable groups
Or as we mentioned at the beginning...
Project all your destructive desires onto the screen
Watching the female lead slap the villain
To obtain a false sense of pleasure
In addition to the above situations
In today's internet culture
We can also see a more hidden one.
Even seemingly noble ways of venting
That is, to find an absolutely correct moral framework.
legitimize one's aggression
Immerse yourself in the endless search
In the repetition of fighting the enemy.
And to satisfy one's moral narcissism
For example, some time ago
A friend shared this story with me.
A girl's work was plagiarized.
She was of course very angry.
Another woman also strongly supported her in seeking justice.
After negotiations
The plagiarist deleted the infringing content.
at this time
The female author felt that her goal had been achieved.
I don't want to get entangled with this anymore.
So the group chat was disbanded.
However
That female friend who was originally a staunch supporter of defending rights
Instead, they expressed strong dissatisfaction with the original author.
In this friend's opinion
The original author should fight to the end.
The plagiarist must be thoroughly exposed.
Doxxing
No compromise
The original author's decision to stop while he was ahead.
She viewed it as a sign of weakness and betrayal.
Ultimately, this friend's anger towards the original author
It even surpassed the anger towards the plagiarist.
So why did this reversal happen?
Because the girl who supported the fight for rights was not...
Truly empathize with and support the original author
Rather, they wanted to use this opportunity to express their aggression.
She was completely absorbed in the script about punishing the villains.
For her
This rights protection incident is more like a perfect stage.
One that would allow her to be completely at ease.
Unleashing one's own aggressive safe space
When the original author disbanded the group
I think we can stop here.
It's like forcibly removing the stage.
She was stripped of her right to continue performing justice.
This phenomenon is actually in Chinese society.
Various claims of awakening, independence, and resistance
This is quite common in their circles.
Just like our February 21st...
The video mentioned
In a context of the existing system or mainstream
In groups that secular culture despises
People will feel like they are being...
Surrounded by an endless sea of ​​mediocre people
In order to maintain this universal
The tragic feeling of being the only one sober while drunk.
Circles often form
An extremely harsh tendency
They will exaggerate and generalize endlessly.
The terror and omnipotence of external systems and environment
Such an atmosphere can create a morbid state.
Purity review and veto system
For example, if a person only talks
He said something good about the current rules.
Or it revealed a certain
Recognition of mainstream values
Then he would be subject to thought censorship within this circle.
No matter how much rational reflection he had done...
Regardless of how rich his personality is
He would be vetoed.
From that primitive witch-hunting mindset
A powerful external system
Whether it's an autocratic government, patriarchy, capitalism, etc.
They are all like a virus
As long as you get even a little bit
Your spirit has been completely polluted and degraded.
You have become an unawakened and ignorant person.
And those of us who have distanced ourselves from them
It is absolutely pure and noble.
For example, during the pandemic
A residential community in Henan Province
A banner thanking the lockdown was displayed.
Therefore, many people felt after seeing this.
Indeed, the people of Henan have a relatively low moral character.
They deserve to be controlled.
This atmosphere fostered a gloating atmosphere.
Whenever a disaster occurs
Many people felt he deserved it.
However, it overlooked the fact that large-scale resistance also broke out in Henan.
Many people are interested in judging the moral character of others.
Often far greater than going to the real
Criticism of the real-world oppressor
They would secretly be happy to see those
People outside the circle suffer misfortune or become victims.
Because the real oppressors and
The real-world environment is very harsh.
Directly challenging them is not only dangerous
And it is often accompanied by a strong sense of powerlessness.
But pointing the gun at the trial
Those of our kind who are not pure enough
Targeting ordinary people trying to survive in the cracks.
But it is absolutely safe
Because these people often don't...
They launched a devastating counterattack.
Through this kind of internal purge that eliminates dissent
The parties involved can feel at ease with themselves.
He released his aggression.
Moreover, this attack can be used
To glorify it as what Lu Xun called "tearing down the roof".
Therefore, being on the extreme is understandable.
They couldn't see a single living person.
Similar species with richness and complexity
And can only see one used to project oneself.
The object of inner insecurity and hostility
From a psychoanalytic perspective
This kind of purity inspection that allows no impurities
Actually, it was Kornberg who said it.
Reenactment in the Paranoid Split Mechanism
Because the individual's inner self is extremely weak.
Too weak to contain the complexity and grayness of reality.
Therefore they must take the world
Cut into all good and all bad
In Kornberg's theory
Projection and splitting are part of the borderline personality disorder.
Commonly used defense mechanisms
The repression function requires a person
To reach a higher level of neurotic personality organization
Therefore, we say that suppression is not a long-term solution.
But it is a person's mind
An essential stage in the process of maturing
That's all for today's video.
If you have any questions
You have questions and would like to discuss them with me.
Just contact me via email.
For example, you want to discuss a certain article with me.
A certain quote, a certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
Or you would like to discuss your...
Life experiences, confusion, and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions regarding payment and communication methods
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you are unable to pay or become a member
Please also contact me.
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will put this video in
The list of "Psychology and Education"
I also recommend everyone to check out my videos.
Other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye.