Hi everyone, I'm Anthony.
Welcome to my channel
today
I want to talk to you about something
A topic I've always wanted to talk about
Many netizens have shared this kind of trouble with me.
They spent a lot of time browsing the internet.
Negative news about China
and related interpretations
This gradually leads to feelings of depression, helplessness, and low self-esteem.
It was even a deep sense of shame.
The external network we are referring to here
Platforms like YouTube and Twitter
And what is mentioned here
Negative information about Chinese society
It doesn't refer to all bad news that makes people uncomfortable.
It specifically refers to those on the Chinese internet.
It is difficult to be discussed and disseminated on a large scale.
That's why people need to go to the internet to see content.
It has the following main characteristics
First, negative information involving public power.
For example, a local government abusing its power
favoritism and corruption
The second point concerns the macro-level aspects of society as a whole.
For example, economic downturn, employment difficulties, and real estate market collapses.
An industry is in recession
A certain profession experienced a pay cut
Or large-scale layoffs, etc.
Thirdly, mass incidents
For example, a protest, strike, or rights protection action occurs in a certain place.
We will find that these categories have one thing in common.
These are all macro-level, structural, and external political issues.
On the contrary
The more microscopic the information, the more personal and intrinsic it becomes.
Even if it's negative
On the Chinese Internet
There is also a greater chance that it will be posted and discussed.
Among the friends I've met and known...
I found that some friends derived from this information
Gained a greater understanding of Chinese society
Then
This further solidified their academic or career direction.
And constructive actions were taken.
However, some other friends
On the contrary, after intensive browsing of this information
More and more pain and helplessness appeared.
This has brought me more trouble.
But it seems like I can't stop.
Friends who have watched my previous videos
You should be able to feel it
This topic
Actually, it's related to what we discussed in the previous two videos.
That is, the kind of diffuse malice.
Compulsive thinking and feelings of powerlessness are closely linked.
So this video...
We do not intend to analyze these details in detail.
Instead, I want to explore
When we long
After being immersed in this information at high intensity
Possible shifts in mindset
This video
We will still focus on mentalization.
Let's talk about the theory of self-identity.
I will upload this video.
Included in the list of "Psychology and Education"
if
Do you have any topics you'd like to discuss or consult with me about?
You can contact me via email to make an appointment.
So
What specific problems did these friends encounter?
Based on my experience...
I think they can be divided into three main categories:
First, Chinese society
It creates a very profound sense of powerlessness and despair.
For example, a friend
After immersing oneself in this type of information for a long time
He would feel
Privilege and cronyism are pervasive in Chinese society.
Class oppression and workplace oppression are everywhere.
Regardless of the type of news and social events
The parties involved can all sense this feeling.
The weaker party will inevitably not receive justice.
It also has no dignity.
The stronger party is always the victor.
Once this image is formed in your mind
The person involved will feel a deep sense of powerlessness.
and diffuse malice
He felt that no matter how hard he tried...
None of them make sense
Because this requires changing the entire social system.
But this is clearly a matter that is far from being resolved.
As a result, the person felt increasingly depressed.
The second type of trouble stems from interpersonal relationships.
For example, when a friend
Read extensively
After browsing negative political information
It will feel natural to want to say it.
To be understood by others
But the result was...
He found that he simply couldn't talk to anyone about these things.
Others felt his stance was too extreme.
Too negative
They even had a heated argument.
turn out
His relationships with family, friends, and colleagues also became increasingly strained.
Over time
The person involved is concerned about being understood by others.
I also felt despair
She even felt that she was destined to be misunderstood.
The third aspect is what I think deserves the most attention.
That is, a group of friends
From this information
Internalized a sense of shame about one's identity
Guilt and remorse
For example, a friend told me
Since I started browsing foreign websites
Gradually, I came to appreciate my past life in China.
I feel a deep sense of shame
I felt like I was completely uncivilized back then.
Ignorant and unawakened
for example
I feel that my past life has been nothing more than burying myself in books.
Improve grades
Although the final result was very good
Highly educated
But in those years
Surprisingly, there was no mention of China's education system.
Some reflection and criticism
It's like I've lived in vain.
Another friend told me
He felt an increasing sense of guilt.
Clearly, Chinese society has changed from the past to the present.
Many bad things have been happening.
He felt
I have remained optimistic and calm for so many years.
This friend
Even deep down, they yearn to atone for their sins through some kind of sacrifice.
Another friend lives in the West
When introducing oneself to foreigners
He might even be a little ashamed to say that he comes from China.
Because he felt that those things that happened in China
It also seems to be a stain on my reputation.
I seem to need to feel ashamed of this as well.
The three aspects we summarized above
It's actually just a person and society
Relationships with others and oneself
The third kind of trouble
That is, feeling ashamed, guilty, and remorseful.
In my opinion
It is a normal manifestation of a deepening sense of powerlessness.
because
The human heart
It's very difficult to endure a feeling of powerlessness for long.
At this time
Humans will initiate a
A very typical psychological mechanism
That is by blaming oneself.
Connect with yourself to alleviate feelings of helplessness
A typical example is
A child
If one suffers from parental anger and aggression for a long time
This child won't think
This is simply because the parents couldn't control their emotions.
Instead, they felt it was their own fault.
It must be that I'm not perfect enough.
I don't deserve to be treated well.
By forcibly connecting these things with oneself
Although the person involved was in pain
But it gave me a sense of control.
This is also one of the psychological mechanisms of original sin.
Although these friends did not say they had original sin.
But these
Shame about one's identity and experiences
This is very similar to the concept of original sin.
The so-called original sin
That is to say, your sin precedes your actions.
You are guilty from the outset because of your position.
so
It cannot be exempted through any specific action.
You need to constantly repent
Constant self-loathing
Its (original sin's) logic is as follows:
Because of this society
There is a lot of oppression and injustice.
And you used to live in such an environment.
I have never doubted it.
I haven't cut it.
Moreover, it is embedded in it
Seeking a superior position within this established order
For example, pursuing better grades
Pursuing higher income
For myself to be able to be in this system
Be proud to be a winner
Now it seems
My past self was truly pathetic.
We say that this view
It is a typical psychological structure of original sin and remorse.
It brings political clarity
Used as a measure of the value and meaning of life
The most important metric
The old self before awakening and the new self after awakening.
It is clearly distinct.
Of course, this does not mean
The person involved can find relief through repentance.
This is something that can never be stopped.
Because once repentance stops...
Individuals will worry
I have fallen back into that numb state.
Once you try to enjoy life
Experience the beauty of life
It's like I've become immoral.
So
How can I get out of this state of helplessness and depression?
I believe the reason we experience depression and helplessness is...
It's because we can't see other people's minds.
Or perhaps we misjudged other people's minds.
Then we felt
I am facing an inorganic world.
Although we know there are many people in this world
But other people's inner thoughts
I am incapable of perception and reasoning.
Therefore, there is no difference between other people and inanimate objects.
And when others are equated with inanimate objects
The world is no longer a place where we can interact.
The venue for negotiation
It has become a place where only force is at work.
The struggle between people can only be a struggle for life and death.
Hidden here
A point we have been emphasizing
That is our self
They live entirely within social relationships.
To be precise
It is an interaction between self-awarenesses
Every thought of ours
Every feeling is directed at others.
We are proud
It's because we imagine someone will be happy for us.
We feel ashamed
Because of imagining a certain gaze
It is falling on us.
Humans always need an inner other.
Interacting with oneself
The physiological basis here
that is
Social biological feedback, which we have mentioned many times before
Some people might say
Then I'm someone who's indifferent to everything.
I am indifferent to this world
No emotions
But what I want to say is...
Indifference is not the absence of emotion.
Rather, it's that emotions are suppressed and shut down.
And the reason why a person needs to turn it off
It was precisely because of that emotion
There was no response before.
So behind the indifference
It is usually hidden as well.
Deep disappointment and disgust towards others
Due to this absolute social nature of human beings
therefore
When we cannot perceive the true thoughts of others
We tend to fill this void with projection.
because
We cannot tolerate a world of pure emptiness and inorganic matter.
And if we have in our hearts
It has a persecutory inner object.
So what do we project onto that information?
It is often just an omnipotent, malicious spirit.
This is exactly the same information.
The reason why different people react differently
So
What kind of information is most likely to trigger this projection?
I think
It is precisely those highly macro-level interpretations
Because in this type of narrative
The subject of an event is often an abstract whole.
Government, big capital, big corporations, structural oppression
Or a villain who has already been symbolized.
These statements themselves are not necessarily wrong.
But they have one common characteristic
There are no specific individuals included.
Without personal circumstances and genuine feelings
Only external confrontation and oppression
We feel like these people have become dehumanized.
It has no heart.
They are a species completely different from us.
And this is precisely the best breeding ground for projection.
A soulless
But something very powerful
Naturally, it easily induces a diffuse fear.
Over time
Our way of understanding the world
It slid into the kind we mentioned before.
Non-personal orientation
Everything stemmed from a force I couldn't communicate with.
Determined by forces that are also incomprehensible.
I want to use a video we made before.
To illustrate this difference
It's the episode about Jia Qianqian.
At that time we talked about
Jia Qianqian is completely ignorant and incompetent.
So many years
Mainly relying on plagiarism to publish papers
With the resources and connections of his father, Jia Pingwa
He managed to become an associate professor at a 211 university.
His professional title was only recently revoked.
This is a very common phenomenon in China.
Cases of academic corruption
How should we view this matter?
I think many people might feel
As a well-known writer
Jia Pingwa can be considered a member of China's privileged class.
Therefore, Jia Qianqian's level is so low.
You can get it easily
A position that others can't reach even with all their might
And I, as an ordinary person
No matter how hard you try, it's meaningless.
That's how society works.
Those with resources can do whatever they want.
Those without resources can only accept their fate.
When a person thinks this way
His heart must be filled with pain and a sense of powerlessness.
Even feeling that my life
So lacking in dignity
However, he naturally assumes here...
The privileged class is a monolithic entity.
Jia Pingwa loves his daughter very much.
Her daughter is so lucky to live in such an environment; she's much luckier than me.
We say
Although Chinese society is indeed full of inequality
However, this kind of suffering of the parties involved
To a large extent, it does not stem from real inequality.
Rather, it stems from his imagination of other people's inner lives.
For example, when the person involved saw Jia Qianqian
She has a father who can pave the way for her.
Then it automatically filled in a complete set of her inner feelings.
It means Jia Qianqian must be living a carefree and happy life.
Many are happier than me
But this set of inner experiences is something we added on out of thin air.
We are watching a sense of lack stemming from our own.
The illusion created
And this kind of illusion is actually non-mental.
Because we are purely from the outside.
For example, social resources, social status, etc.
To directly infer the internal experience of others
Skipping the internal reasoning
In that video of ours
We can see from Jia Qianqian's own account
Jia Qianqian grew up in a
A family environment where the father is highly dependent
Her adoration for her father
To the point where one can block out bodily sensations.
And all of this
It was precisely because of Jia Qianqian's own insecurity
When we really tried to simulate her inner world
we will see
This is a very incompetent person.
They had no choice but to rely on others to obtain resources.
This is not a completely happy life.
Even extremely painful
Inequality in social status is certainly a real phenomenon.
But the differences between people on an inner and spiritual level
It's often not as big as we imagine.
Some people say: I'm not even happy in my own life.
Why should I bother trying to understand a privileged class?
But what I want to say is...
This understanding is primarily for our own benefit.
and
This understanding is merely a cognitive-level behavior.
It is possible to coexist completely with dislike.
When we see the human aspect of others
It possesses a loneliness and emptiness that are universal to all humans.
Death anxiety
And when doubting one's self-worth
This itself
It can greatly reduce the feeling of oppression we experience.
Because we discovered
When a person is hurt by another person
The person involved can easily feel that the other party did it intentionally.
It's purely to make myself uncomfortable.
This makes us feel that the other person is dehumanized.
It seems the opponent has no weaknesses.
No fear
And ourselves
Then you can feel all your weaknesses.
But in reality
The other party probably
It was simply driven by his own inner lack and fear.
The other party is not in a free
In a position of clarity and versatility
Choose to hurt me
Another possibility is
The other person has no idea that they are hurting you.
A fundamental ability of mentalization
It means understanding other people's hearts.
Most of them were consumed by their own troubles.
And this is precisely the antidote to the feeling of being persecuted.
That feeling of "everyone is watching me"
The enemies had long since united
And the feeling of "tirelessly scheming against me"
This in itself amplifies our pain and powerlessness.
Therefore, understanding the minds of others
Seeing the common ground and equality among people
This is not a form of psychological victory.
Rather because
Each of us
It was originally
Live in your own psychological experience and perception
Instead of living in external objective indicators
for example
In the video about statistical thinking, we mentioned
Social support can be divided into two categories
Actual social support and
Understanding social support
In short
It refers to the social support a person subjectively feels.
More quantifiable than what he possesses
Visualized objective social support
More practical significance
It can better predict the state of the person involved.
Let me give you another example.
That is in March 2024
We once did a
Video about Chinese official documents
In that video
We analyzed
Official documents within the system
Those highly rigid writing formulas
But in the end, we did not include these phenomena.
Reduced to a certain abstract subject
For example, bureaucracy
We didn't say anything.
This system will inevitably devour and alienate individuals.
specific people
He's just a cog in the machine of this system.
Because this is not the whole truth.
Where we finally landed
Those specific ones
The people who write the materials in this system
For example, at the end of the video
We also mentioned many writers within the system.
This is also very painful.
For example, self-doubt late at night, etc.
So a person
Even those engaged in
It's a job that I myself feel is meaningless.
Ultimately, we still need to strive to find some intrinsic value.
To prove that one has a spiritual self
This illustrates
Humans are not easily and completely assimilated.
Those feelings of pain are themselves a form of silent resistance.
A real screw
You will not feel emptiness or pain.
See this
It will not immediately alleviate the real problems.
But it will make us feel
I don't live in a mechanical world.
so far
This video took a lot of time to produce.
Discussing how to view others from a mental perspective
For example, how should we view Jia Qianqian?
How to view the system
But actually, the third problem we mentioned earlier...
That is, the shame and guilt one feels towards oneself.
Essentially, the same solution is needed.
That is the mentalization of ourselves.
That is, from a personal perspective
To understand one's own situation
There's still a lot to discuss on this topic.
We'll share more in the next video.
That's all for today's video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact me via email.
For example, you want to discuss a certain article with me.
A certain quote or a certain video
A certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
Or you'd like to discuss your life experiences with me.
Confusion and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy
Have any questions about secure payment and communication methods?
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you are unable to pay or become a member
Please also contact me
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will upload this video.
Included in the list of "Psychology and Education"
I also recommend it to everyone
Go see
Other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!