I'm Steve Brusatte, I'm a paleontologist. I 
dig up dinosaurs, I teach at the University  
of Edinburgh. I advise on films like the 
Jurassic World films, and I write pop science  
books like The Rise and Fall, The Dinosaurs, 
and The New One, called The Story of Birds.  
The Rise and Fall of Dinosaurs
The story of dinosaurs actually begins in tragedy.  
Dinosaurs emerged from the worst mass extinction 
in the history of life. The closest life has ever  
come to completely dying out. And this happened 
about 250 million years ago at the end of what we  
call the Permian period of Earth history. And this 
was the time where there was the supercontinent,  
Pangea. All of the land was gathered together as 
this one enormous land mass stretching from the  
North Pole to the South Pole. And it was a land 
mass that was ruled by a lot of early relatives  
and cousins and ancestors of us distant mammal 
ancestors. But then, in what is now Siberia,  
these enormous volcanoes started to erupt 
about 250 million years ago. And these  
are not volcanoes like those that we know today. 
It's hard to even envision what these were like.  
These weren't the Hawaiian volcanoes or Mount 
Pinatubo blowing its top one day. No, no, no,  
these were enormous fissures in the Earth. It's 
like the Earth was slashed with a giant machete  
and it bled lava for millions of years. And as 
that lava came up through those cracks in the  
Earth, it burnt its way through all the rocks. And 
that released unholy amounts of carbon dioxide and  
methane and other greenhouse gases that warmed the 
atmosphere, led to runaway global warming and that  
caused an extinction, and not just any extinction, 
but the granddaddy of all mass extinctions,  
90 or 95% of all species died out. But there were 
a few plucky survivors, and among those survivors  
were some small little reptiles that had long arms 
and legs that could move fast, that were agile,  
that were smart, and is in those reptiles that 
we find the roots of the dinosaur family tree.  
Some of the fieldwork that I've done with friends 
and colleagues of mine in Europe has identified  
some of the first very tantalizing clues of those 
dinosaur ancestors living soon after that terrible  
extinction at the end of the Permian. And these 
are in many ways very meager clues because they  
are not nice, beautiful, complete skeletons 
like you might see in a museum. But they are  
tiny little footprints and handprints, just a few 
centimeters long. And we find them in Poland and  
these little footprints, they were made about 249, 
250 million years ago. They were made by these  
little reptiles that we call dinosauromorphs, 
which were no bigger than a cat, than a pet cat  
that we might have. I could hold one of these 
in my arms. From those humble ancestors came  
the true dinosaurs. And the first true dinosaurs, 
we find their fossils about 230 million years ago  
in the Triassic period. And really, they're just 
distinguished by a few changes in the pelvis and  
the backbone that allowed them to walk more 
upright and move more quickly. And these very  
first dinosaurs, they split into the three major 
groups of dinosaurs. And these were the theropods,  
those are the meat-eating dinosaurs, the ones that 
would eventually become T-rexes and velociraptors  
and birds. Then secondly, there's the sauropods 
and their close relatives, those are the long-neck  
dinosaurs, the brontosaurus and diplodocus and 
brachiosauruses. And then the third group is  
the ornithischian dinosaurs. And this is a whole 
variety of mostly plant-eating dinosaurs that had  
beaks and that could chew their food really well 
like triceratops, the ones with plates on their  
backs like stegosaurus, the duck-billed dinosaurs, 
the armored dinosaurs, the ones with the dome  
heads that headbutt at each other. Those are 
all ornithischian dinosaurs. So as you can see,  
there's this great diversity of dinosaurs that 
was starting to establish itself in the Triassic  
period on the supercontinent of Pangaea. But this 
was not an easy thing for these first dinosaurs to  
do because they had a lot of competition from the 
animals that were living with them. But they also  
were kept in check by the weather, by the climate. 
When it comes to the physical environment,  
Pangaea was not an easy place to live, not at 
all. This enormous supercontinent was so big  
that much of the interior was thousands of miles 
from the oceans, from the shoreline. So there were  
vast deserts covering much of the supercontinent. 
But the shorelines weren't really that much more  
hospitable because the shorelines were battered 
by storms, by what geologists call mega monsoons,  
which sounds very hyperbolic. But it is what 
they were. They were supersized monsoon systems.  
So that's the sort of weather and climate and 
environment that these early dinosaurs would have  
had to face. But also, they were in this battle 
of survival, in this battle of evolution with  
other groups that had also survived that terrible 
extinction at the end of the Permian. And some of  
those groups were amphibians. The rivers and the 
lakes of Pangaea were ruled by salamanders, the  
size of cars, with enormous heads with thousands 
of teeth. There were crocodiles and their  
relatives living all across Pangaea, and some of 
them were meat eaters, some of them were plant  
eaters, some of them had beaks, like a turtle, 
some of them had sails on their backs, some of  
them walk only on their hind lakes. There was an 
enormous menagerie of fossil crocs. And these were  
the competitors of the very first dinosaurs, and 
there were more of these crocs. And they lived in  
more places, and they were more diverse in terms 
of their diets and their habits and the way that  
they lived. And so really the Triassic period, 
for many tens of millions of years, yes, dinosaurs  
were there. Yes, dinosaurs were diversifying, 
but they were really second-rate characters,  
B-list actors in this Pangaea drama, a drama 
that was headlined by the crocs and the giant  
salamanders. And it would have seemed like those 
animals would have kept going, kept evolving,  
kept thriving, kept dominating. But something 
happened, something changed that story. Back  
at the end of the Triassic period, once again, 
another mass extinction, and this was caused by  
the breakup of the supercontinent. And you can see 
the legacy of that South America and Africa look  
like two puzzle pieces that fit together because 
they once were together, and then Pangaea broke  
apart. And the Earth bled lava, and it was a time 
of major volcanic eruptions all across what is now  
the Atlantic seaboard. And once again, as that 
lava came up, it burnt through the Earth, it  
released a lot of carbon dioxide, it led to global 
warming, it led to an extinction, not quite as bad  
as that one at the end of the Permian, about 50 
million years earlier, but still one of the worst,  
sudden moments of death in Earth history. And that 
extinction decimated the crocodiles, almost all  
of them when extinct. Only a few species survived. 
The ancestors that led to the crocodiles of today,  
same with those giant salamanders, most of those 
died out. But the dinosaurs, the dinosaurs, they  
just sailed right on through that extinction. They 
were the great survivors of that extinction. They  
were the success stories. And because they passed 
through that extinction, they had the opportunity  
to diversify in this largely empty world in the 
next interval of time, the Jurassic period. Now,  
I wish I could tell you exactly why dinosaurs 
survived. But the truth is, I don't know the  
answer. Nobody really knows the answer. The answer 
must be out there. There's lots of different ideas  
that have been proposed. Maybe the dinosaurs could 
move faster, maybe they were more intelligent,  
maybe they had feathers to insulate their bodies 
against the whims of climate change. Many other  
ideas, but it's really hard to know. And so about 
200 million years ago, the extinction happens,  
the volcanoes erupt, global warming causes a lot 
of species to die. Dinosaurs make it through. Now,  
the Triassic period transitions into the Jurassic 
period. And there's a reason why the book,  
the film, is Jurassic Park, or the new ones that 
I work on are Jurassic World. And that's because  
it's in the Jurassic that dinosaurs truly become 
the stupendous, spectacular, sublime creatures  
that we all know and love. Giant meat eaters the 
size of buses, long-neck dinosaurs that got as big  
as Boeing 737 airplanes, the ones with horns and 
spikes and duck bills and dome heads and armor and  
all of those fantastic things that make dinosaurs 
so engaging. This is happening in the Jurassic  
period. And dinosaurs are diversifying so much 
in the Jurassic period, really for two reasons.  
First of all, they survived that extinction that 
killed off a lot of their competitors. So the  
playing field was largely empty. And dinosaurs 
had an opportunity. They were pioneers. They  
could go out and make their own destiny in 
this new evolutionary landscape. But also,  
Pangea is now breaking apart. What was once a 
single unified landmass is now fracturing into  
many bits and pieces. And the dinosaurs were along 
for the ride. And as these different continents,  
butted off, broke off, spun off of Pangea, 
the dinosaurs adapted and changed as their  
environments changed. And from that, by the end of 
the Jurassic period, we had a whole stunning array  
of dinosaurs living all over the world. Different 
species in different places, including some of the  
most famous dinosaurs of all, like Brontosaurus, 
Brachiosaurus, Stegosaurus, Allosaurus,  
living in the American West. And today, we find 
their fossils in places like Colorado and Wyoming  
and Montana, Utah and the Dakotas. These are some 
of the richest fossil sites in the world and its  
Jurassic dinosaurs. That we can find there. About 
103 million years ago, the Jurassic transitions  
into the Cretaceous. And unlike many of 
the other transitions in Earth history,  
between one period and another, this one is not 
marked by some great extinction or some spasm of  
volcanism or the impact of an asteroid. It really 
is just a line geologist used to divide a long  
time frame. But you have dinosaurs continuing to 
adapt and evolve as the continents move around.  
Now, where we really start to see a change 
is a little bit later in the Cretaceous,  
in the middle part of the Cretaceous. But here 
things get a little bit frustrating again,  
because the fossil record largely goes silent. 
We know things are changing because we can see  
that in the early Cretaceous, there are certain 
groups of dinosaurs that are dominant and diverse.  
You have things like the Spinosaurus with the 
scales on their backs and the long snouts that  
ate fish and swam around in the shallow water. 
You had big Carcharodontosaurus predators.  
Then later on in the Cretaceous, they're gone, 
are mostly gone, and you have Tyrannosaurs and  
other major groups. But best we can tell from the 
rocks that we have and the fossils that we have,  
and especially the clues of the chemistry of the 
rocks, which can tell us a lot about temperature  
and precipitation and sea level in climate. It 
seems like there was a period of climate change,  
a period again of global warming, a period where 
sea levels were moving around. And out of that  
came new types of dinosaurs. And the dinosaurs 
that were able to survive, that interval of  
climate change in the middle Cretaceous, they 
were the ones that then had the opportunity  
to take over in the late Cretaceous. But still, 
again, this is largely a mystery. By the latest  
Cretaceous, and I'm talking between about 80 
million years ago and about 66 million years ago,  
by that time, the continents had moved around so 
much that Pangaea was a distant memory, and a map  
of the world would have looked pretty similar to 
the world today. There were small differences,  
sea level was much higher, there were no ice caps 
at the poles. India was an island in the middle of  
the ocean racing northwards to collide with Asia, 
but by and large, if you looked at that map, it  
would look similar to us. And on those different 
land masses lived different dinosaurs. The ones  
in North America were quite distinct from the ones 
in South America and the ones in Africa. And where  
we really see that is with the top predators, the 
latest Cretaceous, this was the kingdom of T-Rex,  
but only in North America. There were other 
close Tyrannosaur relatives at the top of the  
food chain in Asia, but south of the equator in 
South America, in Africa, it was totally different  
dinosaurs, called a allosaurus, much more 
primitive dinosaurs that were the top predator.  
In Europe, Europe wasn't really even a continent, 
it was just a bunch of islands poking out of the  
sea. There were not many big dinosaurs there 
at all. There were a lot of smaller dinosaurs  
living on those islands, and it was little raptor 
dinosaurs that were the top dinosaur predators and  
other groups of animals, like the Pterodactyls, 
which were not dinosaurs, they were another group  
of reptiles that could fly, but they were not 
dinosaurs. They were the biggest predators in  
many parts of Europe and it's all because of the 
geography, because different continents, different  
land masses had different climate, different 
weather patterns, different environments, and  
that bred this richness of dinosaur diversity. And 
it really does seem that in the latest Cretaceous,  
this was the apex of dinosaur diversity, the time 
when they were thriving most, when there were most  
species, the largest number of species, different 
species living in different places, a world in  
which dinosaurs were firmly in control, even 
though it wouldn't last a whole lot longer. If you  
woke up on the last day of the Cretaceous period 
66 million years ago, you would have woken up to a  
world thrown into turmoil. This was an asteroid, 
and not just any asteroid, the biggest asteroid  
that was sniffing around our part of the solar 
system over the last 500 million years. It was  
about six miles wide, about 10 kilometers wide or 
so, so a pretty sizable rock, and it smashed into  
what is now the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico in a 
split second. And I mean that in a literal sense,  
in a split second, it detonated with more energy 
than a billion nuclear bombs put together, and it  
punched a hole in the face of the earth over a 
hundred miles wide, a crater that we can still  
see in parts of Mexico today. It's largely covered 
by the Gulf of Mexico, the parts of it are visible  
on land around Cancun. That asteroid it triggered 
earthquakes, it triggered tsunamis, it triggered  
a volcano going into overdrive, hurricane force 
winds. The atmosphere got so hot from all of  
that energy that forests spontaneously combusted 
through wildfires all over the world. And those  
were the things that just happened in the first 
few minutes and hours and days after the asteroid  
hit. The real killer, though, was what happened 
over the next few weeks and months and years,  
and that is that the soot from those fires, the 
dust and the dirt and the grime from the collision  
of asteroid hitting earth, all that stuff went 
up into the atmosphere. And there's currents in  
the atmosphere just like in the ocean, and that 
stuff spread all around the world, and it cloaked  
the earth in darkness. It was a nuclear winter, a 
global winter that lasted for maybe a few years,  
maybe up to a decade or so. The earth went dark 
and cold and silent. Plants did not have sunlight  
to photosynthesize to make their own food, so 
over a quite short period of time plants died,  
forests collapsed. Plant eating animals had very 
little to eat. They died. Then the meat eaters,  
ecosystems collapsed like houses of cards. And 
this led to a mass extinction. This is the most  
recent mass extinction to today, so it's the last 
one that happened. And three out of every four  
species died. So if you were living that morning 
before the asteroid hit, your entire species had a  
25% chance of baking it through. Everything bigger 
than a husky dog that lived on land died out. It  
was probably just too hard to get food, too hard 
to hide if you were big. But even a lot of smaller  
animals died as well. All of the dinosaurs, 
despite all of their previous successes,  
all of their millions of years of dominance, they 
died only one weird type of small, feisty, plucky,  
quite sophisticated dinosaur made it through. 
These were the dinosaurs with feathers and wings  
that could flap those wings and fly. These were 
the birds. The only dinosaurs that have survived  
the present day. And many other animals died as 
well. The pterodactyls died. All the reptiles  
living in the oceans died. The ammonites, those 
beautiful, coiled shells. They died in the ocean.  
But, of course, some things survived. And among 
the survivors, in addition to birds were some  
tiny, furry, smart, feisty little creatures that 
could dig burrows and hide away and survive by  
their intelligence and by their endurance. 
And these were our mammal ancestors. We had  
ancestors that stared down that asteroid. And 
it's because they were able to endure this worse  
moment of Earth history because of that. That 
is why we are here today. Chapter 2 T. Rex, the  
king of dinosaurs. With the fossil record, we can 
trace evolution over time. That's one of the main  
reasons why paleontologists like me study fossils. 
We want to understand evolution. And what we  
see with dinosaurs is that we have a good enough 
fossil record. We can trace a single lineage over  
10s or even hundreds of millions of years. And 
to give an example of that, I'll just turn to my  
favorite dinosaur, the most famous dinosaur. Some 
might say the most overrated dinosaur, but I think  
it deserves all the accolades that it gets. That, 
of course, is T. Rex, the tyrant lizard king,  
the king of the dinosaurs. And it was the top 
predator in North America at the very last stage  
of the dinosaurs at the end of the Cretaceous. 
But it wasn't always that way. T. Rex came from  
a long line of ancestors. Ancestors that changed 
and adapted and endured and survived. And believe  
it or not, the fossils show that the Tyrannosaur 
family goes back more than 100 million years  
before T. Rex. T. Rex was the crowning achievement 
of a long period of evolution. And for most of  
that time, Tyrannosaurs were not very special. 
They just simply weren't. For most of that time,  
Tyrannosaurs were basically my size. Now, the 
very first Tyrannosaurs we see are from the  
middle part of the Jurassic period. We have a few 
very scrappy, very tantalizing fossils, a little  
bit of a foot, one tailbone, a few teeth that my 
crew has found on the Isle of Sky in Scotland,  
where we do a lot of our fieldwork. But there 
are better fossils of that age from China. And  
these very first Tyrannosaurus, like Guanlong from 
China, these lived about 165 to 170 million years  
ago. They were the size of humans, literally, 
literally the size of humans. And in fact,  
some of them were even smaller. Some of the other 
early Tyrannosaurs were just the size of lapdogs.  
They were not top predators. They were second or 
third-tier predators in the food chain, living  
underfoot of giant allosaurs and spinosaurus and 
other terrifying dinosaurs from other groups. And  
they were very good, it seems, at that role, at 
being smaller predators. Now, over the course  
of the Jurassic, Tyrannosaurs stayed pretty 
small. They made it into the Cretaceous. They  
got a little bit bigger. Some of them got to be 
about the size of horses. A few random species  
here and there kind of supersize themselves in 
their own local environment. But by and large,  
they remained small predators until this middle 
Cretaceous turnover in dinosaurs. This time of  
climate change that we don't know much about. But 
we know that it wiped away many of the incumbent  
top predators, the spinosaurus and the allosaurs 
and the carcardana. So with those animals out  
of the picture, now a job was open at the top of 
the food chain. And in North America and in Asia,  
Tyrannosaurs filled that job. And they did 
so by supersizing their bodies and becoming  
the size of buses. T-Rex was the size of a city 
bus. But what is incredible about T-Rex, to me,  
isn't just that it was so big, it's that it 
was also a very smart animal. And as is often  
the case with celebrities, there are a lot of 
misconceptions about T-Rex. And frankly, a lot of  
those do come from the first Jurassic Park film. 
And not to rip on the film. I love that film.  
That film was one of the things that inspired 
me to become a paleontologist. And of course,  
now I work with the franchise consulting on 
the newer Jurassic World films. And in fact,  
we've corrected some of these misconceptions in 
the latest film in Jurassic World Rebirth. But to  
run through some of these, in the first Jurassic 
Park, we see the T-Rex chasing down the jeep that  
a lot of the characters are in. And this jeep 
is probably probably in third gear. You know,  
this thing is moving probably at least 30 miles 
an hour or so. In reality, T-Rex probably could  
not move that fast. We don't know for sure, but 
paleontologists have built computer models and  
have done simulations. And it just seems 
that an animal of that size, of that bulk,  
of that stature simply could not move at that 
speed. It could probably top out at about 10,  
maybe 15 miles an hour, still quite fast, but 
not fast enough to run down a jeep at that speed.  
But there are other things in the films that 
don't give T-Rex enough credit. So yeah,  
the film makes T-Rex look faster than it 
was. But the films also make T-Rex, frankly,  
look a bit dumber than it would have been in real 
life, especially when it comes to its intelligence  
and its senses. We see in the film this storyline 
that if you stand still, the T-Rex cannot sense  
you. Now in reality, you would be bait because it 
had a pretty big brain for a reptilian creature of  
its body size. Its brain had big old factory balls 
that controlled a very powerful sense of smell.  
Big optic lobes that powered keen vision. And 
ear with a really long cochlea. And we know from  
modern animals the longer the cochlea, the greater 
range of sounds you can hear. So T-Rex was a smart  
animal. And we can tell from the fossils that some 
of the ancestors of T-Rex, while they were still  
small, while they were still the size of humans 
and horses, it was then that they were developing  
these larger brains and keener senses. So it seems 
that being smart may have helped Tyrannosaurs  
endure this middle-cretaceous extinction. Now, 
how did hunt though? That's a question that a  
lot of paleontologists have wrestled with. 
And these are difficult questions to answer,  
frankly. But there is some evidence that 
Tyrannosaurs were pack hunters. And that is  
different than how they're often depicted in films 
as these solitary murderers. Now, the evidence  
that we have is that there's a few species of 
Tyrannosaurs that have been found in bone beds.  
And basically bone beds, that's just the term that 
we use as paleontologists for a mass graveyard.  
And these bone beds, they have only bones of the 
same species of Tyrannosaur, of many different  
individuals from juveniles up to adults. So if you 
preserve a whole bunch of individuals together in  
a mass grave, that is a good sign they must have 
been living together. And if they were living  
together, maybe they were hunting together. The 
thing about T-Rex that always throws me, because  
it's an incredible animal, the size of a boss, 
head the size of a bathtub, 50 banana-sized teeth  
in his mouth that could crush the bones of its 
prey, the ultimate predator from Earth history.  
But its arms were the size of my arms. And my arms 
are not that big. So how could such an incredible,  
sublime animal have such pathetic arms? It is a 
riddle that goes back to the discovery of T-Rex  
in the early 1900s. And we don't honestly know 
for sure why the arms were so small, but we have  
a pretty good idea. And that comes from a few 
things. First of all, we can see that over the  
course of Tyrannosaur evolution, Tyrannosaurs 
started small. First Tyrannosaurs were the size  
of people, the size of dogs. They had longer arms 
and smaller heads. But over time, as their bodies  
got bigger, the heads got bigger and bigger, the 
arms got shorter and shorter. So it definitely  
seems like there was a trade-off. And the head 
was taking on most of the jobs that the arms once  
did in terms of grabbing and processing food. So 
something like T-Rex really was like a giant land  
shark. It would have led with its head, done most 
of the work with its head. But the arms were still  
there. And that's the interesting thing, because 
if a structure is totally useless, evolution will  
usually just get rid of it or make it so tiny 
that you can barely see it. Like the hind legs of  
whales. You know, whales evolved from mammals that 
lived on land. They had hind legs. They went into  
the water. They lost those hind legs. So the fact 
that T-Rex still has arms, that means something.  
The other thing that means something is, yeah, 
the arms are the size of my arms in terms of how  
long they were, which is weird. You know, this is 
a bus-sized animal with arms, the size of my arms.  
Very strange. But those arms of T-Rex were very 
muscular. Much, much, much more muscular than my  
arms. And we can tell because muscles leave scars 
on the bones. And those scars are huge on the  
T-Rex arm bones. Now, the muscles that were really 
big on the T-Rex arms were the ones that would  
have brought them closer to the body like this. 
So that motion must have been something that they  
were doing, quite regularly, that was important 
to them. And we can speculate. Maybe they were  
holding onto each other and they were mating. 
Maybe when they were feeding with their mouths,  
they were bracing themselves with their arms. Or 
maybe if they were two T-Rexes that were fighting  
over a kill, they could wrestle grapple with their 
arms a little bit. There's a lot of different  
possibilities. But the fact that the arms are 
there and the arms are muscular means they must  
have been doing something. They must have been 
part of the repertoire of T-Rex behavior. When  
we look at the depiction of dinosaurs in a lot 
of films, especially older films and older books,  
older television programs, but even some that are 
put out today, there was one glaring issue, one  
glaring piece of just total unreality. And that 
is that many dinosaurs were not covered in scales.  
They wouldn't have been green or brown like some 
big reptile. In fact, many dinosaurs had feathers.  
Many dinosaurs had feathers all over their bodies. 
Even some dinosaurs had wings on their arms.  
Velociraptors had wings on their arms. We know 
this because we know it directly from fossils,  
from real fossils. Now these fossils were first 
found in the mid-90s. One is a little dog-sized  
Tyrannosaur called D-Long, a primitive 
one. The other one is called Eutyranus.  
It's about 30 feet or about 8 or 9 meters long. 
It weighed over a ton. And that means that T-Rex  
itself probably had some kind of feather. 
We don't know for sure. T-Rex is from North  
America. It has never been found fossilized 
in those conditions that allow feathers to be  
preserved. So we don't know for sure. But we 
know it's ancestors must have had feathers.  
Now I know that that is a controversial thing. 
Kind of a weird thing. I think for some people,  
I get this. I get messages. People send me emails 
decrying this. Oh, you've taken away this idea of  
T-Rex I had from childhood as this giant primeval 
reptilian monster and it's no longer scary. And  
you've made it this fluffy feathery thing. None, 
none, none, none. First of all, we got to deal  
with the fossils we have. So if it had feathers, 
it had feathers. Your feelings don't matter.  
Sorry. But I think a big old feathery T-Rex is 
even more terrifying, even more frightening than a  
T-Rex without feathers. But at the end of the day, 
we got to deal with the fossils that we have. And  
it's undeniable that at least some Tyrannosaurs 
had feathers all over their bodies. More dinosaurs  
now are being found than ever before. And believe 
it or not, there's a new species being found about  
once a week on average. So about 50 new species 
every year. Now you add them all up and we know  
of maybe about 2,000 species of dinosaurs, which 
sounds like a lot. It is a lot, but dinosaurs live  
for well over 150 million years. They actually 
still live on today in the guise of birds. And  
there are over 10,000 species of birds just alive 
today. So really, there were probably millions of  
species of dinosaurs that once lived. We've only 
found a tiny fraction of those dinosaurs. It means  
there are a whole lot more dinosaurs out there to 
be found. Chapter 3 - The Rise and Rain of Mammals  
I mostly studied dinosaurs during my career as a 
paleontologist. It certainly was dinosaurs like  
T-Rex that got me enthused about science as a 
teenager. But the more I've studied dinosaurs,  
the more I've also expanded out to study other 
groups and I've become particularly enamored  
with mammals. And really, there's probably 
two reasons for this. First of all, you know,  
I am a mammal. We are mammals. So if we want to 
understand our own history, our own origin story,  
we need to understand mammal evolution. But also, 
really the dinosaur story and the mammal story,  
it's the same story. That asteroid comes down out 
of nowhere, ends the age of dinosaurs, but some  
mammals make it through and forge a new world. And 
so the more I studied that extinction, the more I,  
of course, became interested in, well, how did 
the Earth recover? What happened after that  
extinction? And the story there is that the age 
of dinosaurs gives way to the age of mammals, and  
that's what we've been in for the last 66 million 
years. We are mammals, and we know we are mammals,  
not just from our DNA, that proves it, but more 
broadly because there are many features of our  
own bodies, our own behaviors that are classic 
mammal hallmarks. So we have hair. Some of us have  
more hair than others, but we have hair. That's 
a mammal thing. We have molar teeth and premolar  
teeth and incisors and canines, the different 
teeth in our mouths that are used for grasping and  
shearing and crushing, classic mammal features. We 
feed our babies milk, a classic thing that mammals  
do. And then even more broadly, things that maybe 
we don't necessarily appreciate because there may  
be more nuanced things that only an anatomist 
or a paleontologist might think about, but we,  
of course, have big brains. We have keen senses 
of smell. Those are classic mammal things. We  
have very, very, very good sense of hearing. 
That's a mammal thing. We have a single lower  
jawbone. That's a mammal thing that bears teeth, 
but one set of baby teeth, one set of adult teeth.  
That's a mammal thing. We have big, strong jaw 
muscles. We actually have a hole behind our eyes.  
It kind of merges their eyes, but you can feel the 
border when you feel your cheeks here. And that  
hole anchors jaw muscles. That's a mammal thing. 
And there are so many other features that make  
mammals mammals that we have that other mammals 
have. In the world today, there are three major  
types of mammals. We are placental mammals. And 
about 95% of all mammals are placental mammals  
like us. Placentals are the ones that can give 
live birth to well-developed babies that can  
develop for a long time in their mother's boobs. 
So dogs and cats and bats and wells and elephants,  
all placental mammals like us. But there are 
two other groups. One of those groups is the  
monotremes. These are mammals that still lay eggs. 
They are very primitive mammals. And these are  
the platypus and the echidna species of mostly 
Australia. So in looking at them, it's not that  
the ancestors of mammals would have looked exactly 
like them. They're specialized in their own way,  
but in looking at them, we get a glimpse of this 
time when mammals still lay eggs. The third group  
are the marsupials. And these are ones that are 
very common in South America and in Australia.  
There is one that's common in North America, the 
possum that's made its way back up quite recently.  
But these are the mammals that give birth to 
tiny little babies that are born very premature,  
that then develop more further in their mother's 
pouch. So these are the three major types of  
mammals. Placental mammals are the dominant 
ones today. But we see the roots of these three  
major groups back in the Cretaceous period. Now 
what we see in the fossil record is that those  
features didn't just evolve in one burst. They 
evolved one by one over time in many ancestors.  
Things like hair, for instance, goes way back even 
before true mammals to some of our antecedents  
living in the Permian period and in the early 
part of the Triassic period. But what we see a  
lot of change is right around the origin of true 
mammals. The very first true mammals were around  
late in the Triassic period and then early in the 
Jurassic period. And we see the first fossils of  
true dinosaurs about 230 million years ago, the 
first fossils of true mammals are their closest  
relatives around the same time. But if we look 
from the Triassic onwards, from that moment that  
the first mammals and dinosaurs entered the 
scene, dinosaurs and mammals would be living  
together for a long time. But they had different 
fates. Dinosaurs were destined for greatness,  
for grandeur. Some dinosaurs became massive 
the biggest animals ever to live on land.  
Whereas mammals, they went the opposite direction. 
They went small and they stayed small for a long  
time. No mammal that we know of was bigger 
than a house cat. And as they got smaller,  
their brains got bigger, their jaws simplified, 
their teeth changed from the teeth of their  
ancestors where you would have just new teeth 
growing all the time, kind of like in a shark  
today. And this changed. They were drinking 
milk. They had one set of baby teeth, one set  
of adult teeth. Some of the bones that used to be 
in their lower jaw shriveled up and actually moved  
into the ear to amplify hearing. This is a classic 
mammal thing. And all these things were happening  
as mammals were getting smaller and smaller. 
It seems like miniaturizing their bodies drove  
a lot of these adaptations in the very first 
mammals. And there is this this stereotype,  
this misconception that the mammals living with 
the dinosaurs were all just these small, boring,  
general little afterthoughts of Earth history. 
No, that's not the case at all. And with fossils,  
we see this. Now for a long time, there were 
not a lot of good fossils of the mammals of the  
Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous living with 
dinosaurs. These were small animals. It's true.  
And because they were small, it was hard to turn 
them into fossils. So for a long time, it was only  
a few little jaw bones, a bunch of isolated teeth. 
And that's all that we really knew. We had to  
reconstruct a whole story based on meager fossils, 
but more recently, especially in northeastern  
China, in the same ecosystems buried by volcanoes 
where you get feather-covered dinosaurs preserved,  
you also get a lot of fossils of the delicate 
skeletons of little mammals covered in hair.  
And these fossils tell us quite bluntly that 
yes, mammals were small. The mammals living  
with dinosaurs were small. There's no way 
around it. There were no woolly mammoths,  
their saber-toothed tigers, or whales, or anything 
like that back then. That's true. But just because  
mammals were small, it doesn't mean they were 
boring. It doesn't mean they were all generalized.  
It doesn't mean they were unimportant, quite the 
opposite. There was a great diversity of small  
mammals. There were mammals that could burrow, 
mammals that could climb and clamber, mammals that  
could run pretty fast, mammals that could swim, 
mammals that had wings of skin that they used  
to glide between the tree tops, all living with 
dinosaurs. So really, mammals were the kings and  
queens of the underworld. They were the small ones 
living in the understory, coming out at night,  
living underground in a world that dinosaurs, 
at least on the surface, seemed to dominate. And  
what's really intriguing to me is that mammals and 
dinosaurs reached an equilibrium. They kept each  
other in check for 150 million years or so. Yes, 
dinosaurs kept the mammals small. Being small,  
the size of mice, the size of rats, that is what 
mammals needed to be able to survive in a dinosaur  
dominated world. But conversely, the mammals 
kept the dinosaurs big. And what I mean by that  
is we never find a fossil of a T-rex the size of a 
mouse, a triceratops the size of a shrewd. Mammals  
were the ones that were being very good at being 
small. Now, during the Cretaceous period, there  
was this burst of evolution, not just of mammals, 
but of lots of other species, that we call the  
Cretaceous terrestrial revolution. It's a bit of 
a bombastic term, maybe. But in many ways, it was  
revolutionary because it touched so many aspects 
of life and of food webs and of ecosystems. And  
what really triggered it, it seems, was the rise 
of flowers. So in the world today, flowers are all  
around us. So much of the food we eat comes from 
plants that have flowers, even things like wheat  
and corn. Those are grasses. Grasses are a type 
of flowering plant. The plants in our gardens,  
the plants in our parks, most of them have 
fruits and flowers, and they have beautiful  
fragrance smells. A huge percentage of the plants 
today are flowering plants. But flowering plants  
are a very new innovation in the history of 
life. The oldest fossils of plants with flowers  
are from the Cretaceous. So for the first, you 
know, four billion plus years of Earth history,  
no plants with flowers. Now, when flowering 
plants entered the scene, they diversified, they  
adapted. Some of them became big, became trees. 
We have palm and magnolia trees in the Cretaceous  
period. As they did so, as they diversified, 
that triggered the diversification of insects,  
the insects that pollinated those flowers, insects 
that would eat those plants. And that, in turn,  
promoted the diversification of other animals to 
animals that would eat the insects and then also,  
of course, animals that would eat the leaves 
and the flowers and the fruits and the roots  
of these flowering plants. So that humble, what 
seems like a very humble origin of a flower, it  
triggered something groundbreaking and something 
revolutionary. And mammals in particular really  
blossom during the Cretaceous-Terrestrial 
revolution. And a lot of the modern groups  
of mammals, it's not that they quite got their 
start then, but their immediate ancestors got  
their start during the Cretaceous-Terrestrial 
revolution. And one of the key things is that  
there were all these mammals that were eating 
bugs, eating fruits and eating flowers. And  
that is involved in the evolution of a new type 
of tooth, a new type of molar tooth, the type of  
molar teeth that we have that can both shear food 
and crush food. These are very distinctive teeth,  
very intricate teeth. You look at a tooth 
of a shark or a crocodile or a T-Rex, yeah,  
they might be plenty scary looking, but they're 
pretty simple, steak knives. But our teeth, no,  
all the ridges, the valleys, the depressions, the 
way they interlock with each other, that's the  
classic mammal molar, and that evolved during this 
time of the Cretaceous-Terrestrial revolution as  
all these new food sources, insects and flowers 
and fruits and so on were there to be enjoyed.  
Mammals had to survive and endure and persist for 
a long time in a dinosaur-dominated world. I mean,  
a single footstep of a brontosaurus could probably 
obliterate a whole colony of mammals. So mammals  
had to learn how to live incognito, but it also 
set them up to take advantage of one of the  
luckiest breaks in Earth history, at least from 
their standpoint, and that is when the asteroid  
hit, not a lucky break for the dinosaurs, but 
all of a sudden the world is thrown into turmoil.  
And these dinosaurs that for so long were 
accustomed to being at the top of the food chain,  
to being the dominant animals. Now, they were 
on their back feet. They were at risk. They  
were vulnerable. They were so big. They needed to 
eat so much food. They couldn't hide very well,  
and they succumbed when the asteroid hit. But 
mammals had fine-tuned their survival abilities.  
They had honed their adaptations over 150 million 
years of living underfoot of the dinosaurs, and  
that adaptability, that resiliency, that really 
allowed them to stare down that asteroid. During  
the first 10 million years or so of evolution 
after the asteroid, there were mammals. There  
were lots of new mammals. These mammals were 
getting bigger. It was mostly placental mammals,  
the ones that could give birth to bigger babies 
that were part of this evolutionary spasm that was  
happening. And that's probably not a coincidence. 
Being able to give birth to larger, more developed  
babies could help them achieve larger sizes 
overall. But there's a really interesting  
story that we've pieced together recently. This 
is research that's come out of my lab at the  
University of Edinburgh. It's been largely led by 
Ornela Bertrand, who is a postdoc scholar with me  
and is now a young professor in Spain. And this is 
a story that really strikes at the heart of what  
we think of when we think of mammals. It knocks 
us down a peg a little bit. And so I'll explain,  
because I didn't expect this to be the story, but 
it turns out to be true. Very early mammals living  
with dinosaurs did evolve pretty sizable brains 
for the small little animals that they were.  
And that might have allowed them, our mammal 
ancestors, to survive, at least in part. It  
may have been part of the story for why they could 
survive the asteroid. They were pretty smart. But  
that is when evolution goes off on a weird path. 
Because you might think that, okay, modern mammals  
are really smart and mammals survive the asteroid 
and mammals diversified so much right after the  
asteroid to replace the dinosaurs. So maybe it was 
being smart and evolving bigger brains that helped  
mammals take over the world when the dinosaurs 
died. But that turns out not to be the case  
because we have CAT scanned all of these skulls 
of fossil mammals. We have built digital models  
of their brains. We can measure the size and the 
shape of their brains. We can plot it out on the  
family tree of mammals. And the picture is quite 
clear that during the first 10 million years or  
so after the asteroid, the mammal brains actually 
got smaller relative to their bodies. So to put it  
very glibly, mammals were actually getting a bit 
dumber during the time after the asteroid. Now I  
know intelligence is a lot more than just brain to 
body size. But to be very glib about it, mammals  
were decreasing the size of their brain relative 
to their body. So what was going on? Well, it  
seems like what's really underwriting all of that 
is that the bodies of these mammals were getting  
so huge. So the asteroid wipes away T-rex and 
triceratops. The classic dinosaurs are gone. Some  
mammals have survived. These mammals have never 
gotten bigger than cat size for 150 million years.  
Now their dinosaur overlords are gone. Those jobs 
at the top of the food chain, the top meat eaters,  
the top plant eaters, they're suddenly available. 
So what do mammals do? They get big and they get  
big fast. And in New Mexico, where I've done 
a lot of field work where we have some of the  
best fossils of early mammals living right after 
the asteroid, we see that within 200,000 years of  
the asteroid, there are now mammals the size of 
pigs. Remember, they never got bigger than cats  
for 150 million years. Now they're the size of 
pigs. Within a million years, mammals the size  
of cows. So mammals are ballooning their bodies 
in size and their brains are lagging behind. So  
the real evolutionary force is mammals are really 
going into overdrive, evolutionary overdrive to  
get bigger, fill the dinosaur niches. And it was 
not intelligence that was driving things then. But  
intelligence did catch up and by about 10 million 
years after the asteroid, that's when we start to  
see mammal brains now getting bigger and bigger 
and bigger. And it's from that burst of brain size  
evolution that the super huge brains of modern 
mammals, especially of us, is from that burst  
of evolution that these brains emerged. But during 
this first 10 million years of the age of mammals,  
it wasn't the modern types of mammals that we 
all know that were the ones that were really in  
charge. It was their ancestors. It was this whole 
host of archaic placental mammals, things like  
Pantodonts and Taeniodonts and Tillodonts and 
Condylarths. These mammals names mean nothing  
unless you're a paleontologist that were thriving. 
They eventually would go extinct, but in doing so,  
they would spin out the ancestors of the modern 
groups that we all know, including our own group,  
the primates. It was about 10 million years 
after the extinction. So we're talking about 55,  
56 million years ago as the Paleocene interval 
turned into the Eocene interval of time. That's  
when the modern mammals really start to make 
their presence known. And this happens at a  
time when the Earth is undergoing this moment 
of harsh, sudden climate change, global warming,  
the most recent big global warming spike in 
Earth history before today. And it was caused by  
volcanoes. That's what often caused global warming 
during the long span of Earth history. In fact, as  
the volcanoes that still erupt in Iceland today, 
that started to erupt back then, there are much  
more powerful back then. There was a lot more lava 
back then, and all that lava burning through the  
Earth as the North Atlantic Ocean opens up, lava 
that actually scoured a whole lot of Scotland,  
even the field sites. I have sites on the Isle 
of Sky where they're Jurassic age dinosaurs,  
and we have the lava flows right over those 
dinosaur bones. That is causing global warming.  
And paradoxically, it didn't cause a big mass 
extinction this time. That actually gives me  
some hope for the modern world that just because 
temperatures rise doesn't necessarily mean you're  
going to have a huge extinction. It doesn't mean 
it's good, because as we see from the Paleocene  
transition, maybe there wasn't an extinction, 
but there was a period of upheaval, a period of  
change. And what happened was it seems like it 
triggered this mass migration of mammals. Now,  
a whole lot of the world could be traversed. The 
high latitudes, they were free of ice. It was easy  
to move around. So mammals were on the move, and 
that unsettled things. And from there, this new  
reality emerged where modern primates, rodents, 
hoofed mammals, they become dominant at that time.  
And a lot of these more archaic mammals, these 
ancestors, they sputter away to extinction. And  
since that time, it has been those mammals, 
primates, rodents, hoofed mammals like cattle  
or horses or rhinos. And then later on, bats and 
whales and so on, it's those mammals that are the  
preeminent ones today. And it's largely because 
of that spasm of climate change that helped them  
take over the world. Mammals move. Many animals 
move. That's really the story of Earth history,  
but we really see it with mammals. But there's a 
difficulty there, at least compared to dinosaurs.  
When dinosaurs got their start, and during the 
first many tens of millions of years of the  
history of dinosaurs, all the land was gathered 
together. It was Pangaea that could move quite  
easily. But for more modern-style mammals, 
it's harder to move around. We have all these  
separated continents. And that's been true for 
many tens of millions of years. But some mammals  
have found a way against the octs to move vast 
distances across those continents. And they've  
done so in some cases by flying. Bats enter the 
fossil record, about 55 or 56 million years ago,  
as temperatures increased. And they evolved wings 
and they could fly. And that really was a ticket  
to global success. They could move all around. 
But for mammals that couldn't fly or couldn't swim  
long distances, there was another way that every 
once in a while, by sheer chance, they could move  
around quite long distances. And that is by what 
we call these Hail Mary dispersals. So if you're  
an American football fan, you know, sometimes 
your team is down, and you have one last chance,  
and you just throw the ball down the field 
and hope that your receiver catches the ball,  
scores a touchdown. The odds of success are very 
low because the pass is so long, but every once  
in a while, that pass connects. And your team wins 
the game. We see this with migrations. There are  
mammals in South America today, both primates 
and rodents. So the classic monkeys, the howler  
monkeys of South America, and some of the classic 
rodents of South America guinea pigs, capybara.  
They've been there for a long time. How did they 
get there? Nobody really knew South America was  
an island continent for many tens of millions of 
years. How did these mammals make their way? They  
couldn't fly, they couldn't swim, they couldn't 
jump between land bridges. How in the world could  
they get there? Well, the answer started to become 
really clear with the genetics of those mammals.  
It is clear from doing the DNA paternity test 
that they are closely related to African rodents  
and primates. Okay, so how do African rodents and 
primates get to South America? Well, it seems like  
the only way is through one of these Hail Mary 
dispersals where there are some of these mammals,  
maybe after a storm, maybe they're on a raft of 
vegetation, sometimes big chunks of the coast,  
trees and grass and all kinds of stuff can be 
ripped apart, thrust out into the ocean, and  
can actually travel the currents for many weeks 
and then land somewhere in a distant land. And  
that seems to be how the rodents and the primates 
got to South America. And it seems inconceivable  
how in the world could they survive a voyage like 
that. But we have to remember that evolution has  
lots of time to work with. And if you're talking 
about many, many, many millions of years, most of  
the time there was some storm, some little bit of 
the coastline and you ripped out, it would go out  
in the water, nothing would come of it. But maybe 
every once in a while there would be a Hail Mary  
play and that raft of vegetation carrying these 
monkeys and these rodents would reach thousands  
of miles away and they would have a new shoreline 
to colonize. And that is what happened and I think  
it is one of the most incredible stories of 
evolution. We wouldn't know about it if we  
didn't have the genetics and the fossils together 
to tell us that story. After the asteroid hit,  
the Cretaceous turned into the Paleocene, the age 
of dinosaurs, gateway to the age of mammals. But  
really, this greenhouse world of the dinosaurs 
persisted. The Earth was still very warm. There  
were no ice caps at the poles, for instance. Then 
the Earth got even warmer as the Paleocene turned  
into the Eocene with this spurt of global warming. 
It got so hot that there were crocodiles lounging  
in the shade of palm trees above the Arctic 
Circle. And the Earth stayed hot for a while,  
but then it started to gradually get a little 
bit cooler. The tide shifted there. And about 35  
million years ago or so, it really started to get 
cooler. And what happened was there were different  
changes in the orbit of the Earth and the amount 
of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, small things,  
that over time can add up and create quite 
profound climate change. But what really, really,  
really drove this, what turned a small cooling 
trend into a big trend of decreasing temperatures  
was that Antarctica became isolated. Antarctica 
was connected to South America ever so tenuously  
by a little tendril of land. And that was snipped 
just tectonically, just the way the Earth's plates  
move. Well, now suddenly you could have cold 
water currents encircling Antarctica at the  
bottom of the world. And this acted as a global 
air conditioner, an ice nucleated onto Antarctica.  
The glaciers grew into ice sheets. And that helped 
drive the temperature of the entire world to be  
much cooler. Now, this was a long-term trend then 
that continued to happen for many tens of millions  
of years. About two and a half million years ago, 
another interval of change happened. There was a  
switch that was flipped again. And this had to do 
with how changes in the orbit of the Earth, the  
shape of the orbit of the Earth around the sun, 
how circular it is, compared to how oval there's  
small changes, the tilt of the Earth's axis, these 
things that may seem subtle, these things actually  
just by chance converge together to make the Earth 
receive less light and energy from the sun added  
on to this global air conditioner of the ocean 
currents changing that now plunge the Earth into  
a proper ice age. And this is the ice age, the one 
that we all think of when we hear the word when we  
see the movies, this is the time of Will Smith and 
Saber-toothed tigers. It only started about two  
and a half million years ago. And in fact, we're 
still in that ice age. It's just we are heating  
the Earth so quickly through global warming that 
we're basically burning ourselves out of the ice  
age. But over the last two and a half million 
years, the Earth has been cold. Now, it's not that  
the entire Earth has been covered in glaciers. 
No, what's happened is those polar ice sheets have  
grown to such size that at certain times they have 
crept down onto the continents. This is especially  
true of the North Pole ice sheet. It's grown, it's 
contracted, expanded, contracted in many pulses,  
it's like a roller coaster just as small changes 
in the orbit of the Earth occur. About 50,000  
years or so was one of the peaks of the expansion 
of that ice sheet. And that ice sheet grew so big  
that it crept down and it covered Chicago, where 
I'm from. It covered Edinburgh and Scotland where  
I live now. It covered New York City. A lot of 
North America, a lot of Asia, a lot of Europe  
was completely engulfed in ice. There would 
have been a mile thickness of ice covering New  
York City and Chicago 50,000 some years ago. Now, 
living on the fringes of the ice sheets were the  
woolly mammoths, the Saber-toothed tigers. There 
were woolly rhinoceroses. There were armadillos  
the size of Volkswagen's. There were swaths that 
lived on the ground that stood 10 feet high. They  
could dunk a basketball. There were giant deer 
with antlers bigger than a dinner tape. There  
were American lions and hyenas. Incredible time 
of mammal diversity. These mammals had to live  
and adapt to this cold world and many of them did 
so by getting big, being big pays when it's cold,  
and by evolving these really shaggy coats of hair. 
Generally speaking, when it comes to the mammals  
that lived on land, some have gotten pretty big. 
There are big elephants that lived today. There  
were even bigger elephants that lived in Earth 
history. There were huge rhinos without horns  
that lived many tens of millions of years ago that 
got up to be maybe around 15 to 20 tons, pretty  
big. But nowhere near the size of the largest 
dinosaurs. Some of the long-necked dinosaurs,  
like Argentinosaurus and Patagotitan, these 
things were heavier than Boeing 737 airplanes.  
They weighed 50, 60 tons or even more. Absolutely 
gargantuan. They pushed the boundaries of what's  
possible in biology. It's incredible. They would 
have hatched from eggs. Eggs that you could hold  
in your hand, and they would have had to grow and 
endure all of the tribulations of life to reach  
that size. No mammals have been able to do that, 
to that degree. It is a little bit of a mystery,  
but I think it's probably several things put 
together that may explain it. But one of the  
key reasons that I think that dinosaurs were 
able to get so much bigger than land mammals  
is that they breathed in a totally different way. 
Mammals like us, we know how we breathe. Our lungs  
are basically bags. They inflate, they deflate. We 
breathe in, we breathe out. But birds today have  
a very different type of lung. The lung of a bird 
is not like a bag that inflates and deflates. No,  
it's more like a set of pipes or a set of straws. 
An air can only go through in one direction. And  
the whole way that birds make it work is that 
they attach these air sacs, these balloons that  
can store air, they attach them to those lungs. 
That controls this unidirectional airflow. What  
that also means is that birds can get oxygen when 
they breathe in and when they breathe out. Just  
because some of that oxygen-rich air is shunted 
off to those air sacs, and then when they deflate,  
that air moves across the lung, there's still 
oxygen there. It doesn't, and it's fine if you  
don't understand, it's a feat of engineering. 
I think you really have to be an engineer to  
understand how it works. But what it means is that 
birds have much more efficient lungs than mammals.  
There are birds that can fly over the Himalayas. 
We, a mammal, if we're in an airplane, and the  
cabin depressurizes, that sort of altitude, we got 
to get the oxygen masks. That's because our lungs  
are less efficient. The key thing here is that 
we know many dinosaurs had those same lungs as  
birds. T-rex did. The long-neck dinosaurs did. How 
do we know it? Not because the lungs fossilize,  
because lungs are flimsy. They decay very quickly. 
But those air sacs that stick out from the lungs  
actually invade the bones in a very characteristic 
way. They enter holes in the side of the bones,  
and they open up inside of the bones into these 
big chambers. And we see that. The exact same  
structures in birds today in T-rex and the 
long-neck dinosaurs. So to circle back here,  
we know that a lot of these dinosaurs, including 
the very biggest dinosaurs that ever lived, had  
these ultra-efficient lungs. They could take in 
more oxygen than any mammal. And that's probably  
a major reason why these long-neck dinosaurs were 
able to get bigger than the biggest elephant,  
the biggest rhino, the biggest land living mammal 
ever. Some of the most remarkable mammals of all,  
to me, are the whales. These are mammals. They 
look like fish. They really do. I mean, and they  
swim at incredible depths. They never come on to 
land. They are fully aquatic animals, but they  
are mammals. And they have the classic features of 
mammals. We know they're mammals. They even have  
hair. A lot of them have whiskers and eyelashes 
and so on. They feed their babies milk, all the  
classic mammals. Their DNA proves that they are 
mammals. When we do the DNA paternity test, whales  
actually slot right into the mammal family tree, 
and it's hippos that are their closest modern  
relatives. So they are hoofed mammals, just very 
derived, very modified hoof mammals that underwent  
this incredible evolutionary transformation. They 
transformed their bodies from a land mammal to an  
ocean mammal. How do we know that part of the 
story? Well, we actually have fossils that show  
those different transitional stages. Now, we 
don't have fossils of every stage, but we have  
enough fossils. We can string them together 
into a sequence and kind of like a flip book,  
you have these different stages. And if you look 
at them in a running film, you get that story of  
how a land mammal turned into a whale. And the 
starting point of that story is somewhere around  
55 million years ago. The Eocene interval of time 
is dawning with this burst of global warming.  
There are small hoofed mammals that are living 
in different parts of the world. And what's  
now India and Pakistan, there were these tiny 
little creatures. They looked like little deer,  
fast runners, with hooves that lived on the land, 
but they had a few interesting features of their  
skeletons, including denser bones, that would have 
allowed them to spend some time around the water,  
similar to hippos today. And then we see, stage 
by stage, how the hooves of these animals start  
to change. They start to morph into flippers. At 
first, flippers that can be used on land and in  
the water. But then the four flippers get really 
big, the hind ones shrink in size, the bodies  
change. They get longer, more tubular shaped like 
a torpedo. And by this point, these whales, they  
couldn't have come back on land anymore. They were 
fully ocean living species. It is an incredible  
story of evolution. It is a textbook example 
of a major evolutionary transition, how one  
type of animal with the body that is suited for 
living in one type of environment changes itself  
thoroughly to live in a totally new lifestyle. 
Because I consult on the Jurassic world films,  
people are always asking me if it's possible 
that we could bring dinosaurs back to life,  
if we could find dinosaur DNA and clone a T-Rex 
and have a T-Rex in the world of us today. And I  
always have to tell people for better, for worse, 
it's very unlikely. You never say never, right? As  
a scientist, you never want to say something's 
impossible. But nobody's found any DNA that's  
older than about a million and a half years or so. 
At least as far as complete good DNA in the fossil  
record. Because DNA breaks down really quickly 
when an animal dies. So it is unlikely a T-Rex  
we could ever bring it back to life, which for 
me is fine. I don't want to deal with the T-Rex.  
I'm happy studying its bones. But for things like 
woolly mammoths and saber tooth tigers, they lived  
much more recently. They went extinct really just 
a few thousand years ago. We have their DNA. We  
know the complete genome of the woolly mammoth. 
We know more about the DNA of woolly mammoths  
than we do about a lot of animals living today. 
We have fossil specimens of woolly mammoths that  
have been frozen in the ice and they have hair 
and they have the organs and the muscles they  
have last meals in the stomachs. These animals 
are so much closer in time to us that maybe,  
maybe they could be brought back. Now I'm not 
a geneticist and I won't pretend to understand  
what it will actually take to clone a mammoth or 
a saber tooth tiger. I'm sure it is not easy and  
I don't want to trivialize what is certainly a 
very hardcore science. But what I think I have  
a little bit more perspective on is just the deep 
time history of the earth. And what I would say is  
that there is a real risk of bringing back extinct 
species because the world today is a lot different  
than the world that they knew. That's definitely 
true of a T-Rex. But even a woolly mammoth,  
these were animals that were adapted to the 
ice age. The world was a lot colder than their  
habitats have mostly disappeared. They would be 
living in many ways on an alien planet. So the  
ethics of that get very tricky. On the flip side, 
the whole reason the woolly mammoth doesn't live  
anymore is really because of us. Because of humans 
changing the environment so quickly, so thoroughly  
over hunting, but not just over hunting woolly 
mammoths, but changing the land, clearing land,  
clearing vegetation. This is why woolly mammoths 
and a lot of the other megafauna went extinct. It  
wasn't because of an asteroid. It wasn't because 
of volcanoes. It was because of us. So can we  
rectify things? Can we have penance for our sins 
as a species by bringing a woolly mammoth back?  
That's part of the ethical equation as well. 
It's a tough, deep question. And I'm not going  
to give an answer because I don't actually 
have an answer. I think different things  
about this conundrum all the time. But I do 
think, from what I understand of genetics,  
what I know about what's happening with science, 
that it might be possible. It might be possible.  
So this is not some pie in the sky thing 
that we can debate philosophically. You know,  
at a coffee shop, should we do it? Could we even 
know this might be a real world thing that we have  
to deal with. So I think we need to be prepared 
for having this debate about whether it is ethical  
to bring back recently extinct species. Chapter 
four, how birds became the last dinosaurs. Birds,  
the birds around us today, they are dinosaurs. 
They are real true dinosaurs. And that's not  
just a turn of phrase. That's not just some 
technicality. Birds are dinosaurs because they  
are part of the dinosaur family tree. They evolved 
from other dinosaurs. They are just a strange type  
of dinosaur that got small, evolved wings, and 
developed the ability to fly. And in that way,  
really, they're a dinosaur version of a bat. A bat 
is just a strange mammal that got small, evolved  
wings, and developed the ability to fly. But of 
course, it is still a mammal. And in that sense,  
birds are still dinosaurs. They're just the only 
dinosaurs that have lived on to the modern day.  
And this idea is so enthralling to me that it's 
inspired me to write my newest book, which is  
called The Story of Birds. And that book tells 
the story of how birds evolved from dinosaurs,  
how dinosaurs evolved feathers and wings and took 
to the skies, and then all the amazing things that  
birds have done in the 150 million years since 
they entered the scene. In writing The Story of  
Birds, I learned a lot and I gained an incredible 
appreciation for birds. But the birds today,  
even the really scariest ones today, and I'm 
not talking about potoos, talking about the  
properly scary ones, say hawks and eagles and 
vultures and so on, they pale in comparison  
to some of the extreme eccentric extinct birds 
that once lived. And I'm talking about things  
like terrorbirds. Okay, I think the name says 
it all, but the nickname is well deserved. These  
were the top predators on South America for 
tens of millions of years after the asteroid.  
They became bigger than humans. They had heads 
bigger than a horse's head with a big nasty  
hooked beak at the end that they use for devouring 
prey. They were ferocious, they could run fast,  
they had big powerful legs for a kickboxing 
their prey. There were things called demon ducks  
that lived on Australia for tens of millions of 
years. Now this nickname is a little bit unfair,  
it's a little bit of a misnomer because they 
wouldn't have been very demonic. They were big,  
they were like a hundred times the size of a 
modern duck, but they were plant eaters. And they  
were in fact some of the most important big plant 
eaters at the base of the food chain in Australia  
along with some marsupials like kangaroos and 
wallabies and so on for many tens of millions  
of years. Our human ancestors, and actually not 
even our ancestors, our species homo sapiens when  
they first reached Australia met the demon ducks. 
Eight demon duck eggs for breakfast. There are  
archaeological sites where there are charred demon 
duck eggs sadly, probably why they went extinct,  
but they were some of the heaviest birds of all 
time joined with another group. There's like a  
joint heavyweight title with these things called 
elephant birds from Madagascar that stood like ten  
feet tall that weighed like 700 or more pounds. 
Actually some of them may have even pushed close  
to a ton, weighed more than cows, they laid eggs 
the size of watermelons. There were things that  
were called colossus penguins. These were penguins 
that were taller than a human and weighed as much  
as a gorilla. They were the top predators in 
the southern oceans after the ocean reptiles  
went extinct with the dinosaurs at the end of 
the Cretaceous. Later on they were superseded  
by killer whales and big sharks, but for many 
many millions of years it was gigantic penguins  
that were the big fish eaters and flesh eaters 
of the oceans. And there were some giant birds,  
a lot of these by the way I should say, the big 
penguins, the terra birds, the elephant birds,  
the demon ducks, they could not fly in the air. 
They gave up flight in order to get so big. But  
there was one group that got big but maintained 
the ability to fly and these were what we call the  
Pelagornithids. They don't have a catchy nickname 
yet. Somebody needs to come up with one. Let me  
know if any of you have any good ideas. But these 
had 20 foot wing spans. They were like kites,  
giant kites that soared the thermals around 
the world for many tens of millions of years,  
giant hanggliders. And I could go on and on and 
on. But the point really is that the birds we  
see today as diverse as remarkable as they 
are. Really it's just a pal in comparison to  
a lot of the birds that once lived that are now 
extinct. Now this idea that birds are dinosaurs,  
the birds evolve from dinosaurs. You might think 
that it is a brazen audacious new idea proposed  
by the new generation of paleontologists. But no, 
no, and it's not. In fact, it's a very old idea.  
And it goes back to the time of Charles Darwin. 
It was in the 1860s, right as Darwin was releasing  
the origin of species articulating his ideas for 
evolution by natural selection. It was then that  
some of Darwin's closest scientist friends made 
the connection between dinosaurs and birds. And  
it was Darwin's dear friend, Thomas Henry Huxley. 
Darwin's bulldog. That's what they called him  
because he was so voracious in the way that he 
advocated for Darwin's ideas. Huxley was a great  
communicator of science. This was a day, you know, 
in a time before there were a lot of pop science  
books, but people communicated science quite 
broadly through lectures. And this is what Huxley  
did. And very famously in the 1860s, in a series 
of lectures, beginning in London, Huxley proposed  
this idea that birds evolved from dinosaurs. And 
this was in service of more broadly communicating  
to the public that Darwin's ideas about evolution 
were true. What Huxley understood is that yes,  
today's birds are very distinctive with their 
feathers, their wings, their wishbones, their  
beaks, their lightweight skeletons, their stubby 
tails, their fast growth, their high powered  
metabolism, of course, their ability to fly. These 
are very unique things. And there's really nothing  
else today that looks like a bird. But if you look 
into the fossil record, you can actually see that  
there are more primitive creatures that lived long 
ago that have many bird-like features. And these  
are dinosaurs. This was around the time in the 
1860s that some of the very first good skeletons  
of dinosaurs were being found and Huxley noted 
the similarities. And they were things as basic as  
look at the foot of a chicken. And it really looks 
like the foot of a small meat-eating dinosaur with  
the three toes and the claws and so on. This was 
before anybody even knew what DNA was. So it was  
all based on similarities in the fossils. And what 
really clinched the deal for Huxley was when this  
new fossil was discovered in the early 1860s in 
southern Germany. From rocks that dated back to  
the Jurassic period about 150 million years ago, 
this was the fossil of a bird. It had wings,  
it had feathers. Of course it was a bird. What 
else could it be? But it was no normal bird.  
It was a weird bird. It still had teeth in its 
jaws, little steak knife teeth that looked like  
the teeth of a little dinosaur. It had big claws 
on its hands like the claws of a little dinosaur.  
It had a long bony tail. It really looked like 
it was half bird, half dinosaur. Now this is  
Archaeopteryx. It remains a famous fossil. It 
remains the oldest known true bird. An animal  
of feathers and wings that could fly. And in 
it, Huxley saw this perfect intermediate stage,  
this Frankenstein creature. And this was the 
argument that he made to the masses and by the  
end of the 1860s, actually, people, at least in 
Britain, were convinced largely that birds came  
from dinosaurs. Darwin put it into his latest 
editions of the origin of species. It became a  
widely known idea. But then, as often happens in 
science, when an idea starts to reach consensus,  
it started to attract its contrarians. And people 
started to find new dinosaurs, giant dinosaurs,  
as the American West opened up. Allosaurus and 
brontosaurus and stegosaurus. These things look  
nothing like birds. So how in the world could a 
bird come from dinosaurs like these? That's what  
people started to argue. And it took many decades 
for the debate to circle back around through the  
discovery of some really bird-like raptor 
dinosaurs, like Velociraptor and Dinonychus,  
that brought it back and that showed that Huxley 
was actually right. And then in the 90s, finally,  
people discovered feathers on dinosaur fossils and 
that was it. The final piece of evidence to prove  
once and for all that, yes, today's birds really 
did evolve from dinosaurs. In the world today, you  
look around. There are so many birds that we are 
familiar with. There are more than 10,000 species  
of birds and we see them around us. Many of us 
go bird-watching. Some of us have pet birds. Some  
of us enjoy chicken for dinner. There are so many 
birds. All of that diversity stems from dinosaurs.  
And it's not like there were 10,000 different 
dinosaurs that gave rise to the different species  
of birds today. No, what happened was that there 
was basically one great, great, great, great,  
great, great, great, grandmother dinosaur that 
evolved the ability to fly and from that ancestor  
sprang all of the diversity of modern birds 
today. But that ancestor and the descendants  
of that ancestor had to traverse and endure so 
many tribulations. They had to do the same thing  
our mammal ancestors did and that is survive the 
asteroid that ended the Cretaceous and killed 75%  
of all species, including every other type of 
dinosaur. And it really is a remarkable story  
because imagine, if you will, an alternative world 
where every type of mammal, including us, goes  
extinct and only bats survive. That's basically 
what happened to the dinosaurs. So how do they  
do it? We can say, "Well, birds, okay, they could 
fly." So that could help them get away from danger  
very quickly. Birds are generally small. They 
could hide away more easily than a T-Rex or a  
triceratops. Those things probably help them and 
that is certainly true. But the real crux of the  
issue, the real mystery is why did only one type 
of birds survive? Because when the asteroid hit,  
there was a whole panoply of birds. There were 
very derived, advanced modern birds with beaks  
that grew really fast and could fly really well, 
but there were still birds with teeth and long  
tails and claws on their hands. So why did only 
modern birds survive? Why did they not follow  
T-Rex and triceratops to the grave? It seems like 
it is probably because simply, the earth devolved  
into this fickle casino. There was no time for 
species to adapt through the longer-term processes  
of natural selection. You had to face the asteroid 
and the tsunamis and the fires and the earthquakes  
in the nuclear winter. You had to face that with 
whatever hand of cards you were already dealt.  
Modern-style birds not only could fly, not only 
were they small, but they grew super fast and  
reproduced really quickly. That would help. The 
generations could turn over quickly and they had  
beaks. These were some of the birds that had beaks 
and those beaks were very good at eating seeds.  
And that might sound trivial. But today, when 
there's a forest fire, when a volcano obliterates  
an island, plants will grow back. And why is that? 
Because seeds can last a long time. If you were  
an animal at the end of the Cretaceous and you ate 
parts of a growing plant, leaves, flowers, fruits,  
roots, your food would run out really quickly. But 
if you could eat seeds, that would be your ticket  
for surviving longer. That would be like the last 
food source available. So having beaks eating  
seeds in addition to being small and flying well 
and growing fast was probably the winning hand of  
cards at this crazy, maniacal poker table at the 
end of the Cretaceous. And I think it is a really,  
in many ways, quite haunting image, but also an 
image of resiliency to think about in those weeks  
and months and maybe years after the asteroids, 
so many animals died. But there were these modern  
style birds like Asteriornis, which is known 
from Europe, the gave us from Antarctica, these  
birds that would have been using their beaks to 
pick through the wreckage, spearing seeds amidst  
all the fungal spores and the glass bullets from 
the asteroid and the charcoal from the wildfires,  
and something that seems so trivial, so basic, 
just so happy to beat their get out of jail free  
card. And that, in large part, is what allowed 
birds to survive to the modern day. When we look  
at birds today, they are utterly unique and 
distinctive. There are no other animals that  
really look anything like birds, especially when 
it comes to feathers and those sort of aspects  
that are distinctly avian. But more broadly, 
there are so many parts of the bird body that work  
together to enable that most birdie of things, and 
that is to fly in an active way by flapping the  
wings, powered flight. And you think of wings and 
feathers, but you also think of a light skeleton,  
bones filled with air, a wishbone that acts as 
a spring as the wings beat, a short towel with  
a big fan of feathers that's used as a rudder 
and for steering and for landing. There are so  
many things that if you take any one of those 
features away from a bird, it couldn't fly or  
it couldn't fly very well. So you might think that 
these things all evolved for flying so that birds  
could fly. But no, what we see in the fossil 
record is that these classic features of birds  
are actually dinosaur features, almost all of them 
first evolved in the dinosaur ancestors of birds.  
They evolved long before birds or these dinosaur 
ancestors could fly. They must have evolved for  
reasons other than flying. And the story of a bird 
evolving is really a story of gradual piecemeal  
evolution, tens of millions of years of different 
features evolving one by one in different dinosaur  
ancestors for different reasons, but then coming 
together eventually really through chance to form  
what could function as a flying machine. And 
I think the best analogy for that is that the  
Wright brothers invented the airplane. We all 
know that story, but they didn't invent all the  
components of the airplane. They didn't invent 
the wheel. They didn't invent the propeller.  
They didn't invent the wing. Other people had 
invented those things, many thousands of years  
before in some cases for different reasons, but 
the Wright brothers put them together in a way  
that could fly. We can talk about a few of the 
different classic features of birds and actually  
see how they first evolved in dinosaurs. One of 
them is walking bipedally. That's just the fancy  
way of saying just walking on the hind legs. This 
is what we do. So we kind of take it for granted,  
but really it's quite unusual in nature. And 
there's this famous line from the ancient Greeks  
that humans, how do you define humans? Well, they 
are featherless bipeds. So really what that means  
is just that the other animals alive today that 
walk on their hind legs are birds. Now you might  
think, okay, birds need to walk on their hind 
legs. They have their wings. They use their  
wings to fly. They use their legs to land and 
to take off and to move on the ground. But no,  
actually being bipedal, long predates flying. 
Early dinosaurs became bipedal. Some of the first  
dinosaurs living on Pangea back in the Triassic 
period started walking only on their hind legs.  
Probably in order to move faster, to run faster, 
to move more efficiently, to free their hands for  
doing different things for grabbing food and so 
on. So it had nothing to do with flying. Feathers.  
Feathers. Nothing is more birdy than feathers. 
You find a feather. You see one fluttering around  
in the breeze. You know a bird was there. No 
lizard, no snake, no turtle, no mammal. No fish  
has feathers. They are uniquely bird features. But 
when we look at the fossil record, we see that a  
lot of dinosaurs had feathers. We actually see 
that feathers were normal for dinosaurs. We have  
dozens of different types of dinosaurs that have 
been found with feathers all over their bodies.  
Small dinosaurs, the size of dogs, big dinosaurs. 
There's a Tyrannosaur that's more than 30 feet  
long and weighed more than a ton and feathers all 
over its body. We see plant eating dinosaurs with  
feathers and meat eating dinosaurs with feathers. 
If you map this onto the family tree of dinosaurs,  
really the only conclusion is that feathers 
must go deep into dinosaur history. Probably  
the common ancestor of all dinosaurs. Maybe 
even a more distant ancestor first evolved  
feathers. But what we see from the fossils is 
that most of these feathers were quite simple.  
They were the starting stages, the beginnings 
of bird feathers. Most of these feathers were  
just little strands that looked like hair. They 
were hollow inside. They were made of these beta  
proteins that feathers today are made of. So we 
know they are feathers, but they are a simpler  
form of feathers. That's what most dinosaurs 
had. Those kind of feathers were normal for  
dinosaurs in the same way that hair is normal 
for mammals. I think it goes without saying,  
but I'll say it anyway. We cannot fly with our 
hair. Some of us have more hair than others,  
but if you have the most luxurious mane of hair, 
you can't fly with it. So these dinosaurs that  
had these hairy feathers, they could not fly with 
them. That means feathers must have evolved for  
something else initially. And we think it was 
for the same reason hair evolved in mammals to  
help control body temperature to stay warm. Part 
of the metabolism, part of becoming more active  
and energetic and warm blooded. Most dinosaurs 
had those simple feathers, but some dinosaurs  
elaborated those feathers. And these were the 
raptor dinosaurs. And as their bodies were getting  
smaller over time, they packed those feathers ever 
more densely all over themselves. And they started  
to line up some of those feathers on their arms, 
sometimes on their legs and on their tails. And  
those feathers changed from simple little hairs 
into brushes. So they branched out. And some of  
them became rigid but pliable and became the 
classic quill pen feather that we know today,  
the classic feather of birds. And some of 
these dinosaurs even had wings on their  
arms and sometimes their legs and their tails 
made of these feathers. And they looked just  
like the wings of birds today, but but again, the 
fossils throw a curve ball because wings show up  
on dinosaurs that are about the size of sheep 
up to the size of horses. That's where wings  
first evolve. And those wings are no bigger than 
a laptop screen. So just by the laws of physics,  
there's no way that if that dinosaur flapped those 
wings that it could get aloft, that it could get  
the lift and the thrust those aerodynamic forces 
needed to stay in the air and move around the  
air. So that means that even wings must have 
evolved for another reason. And we don't know  
exactly. We weren't there to witness evolution, 
but we can tell from the fossil melanin, the  
fossil color pigments in some of these dinosaur 
feathers that they had quite elaborate colors  
and patterns. So we think that some of these 
dinosaurs were using those wings for display,  
basically advertising billboards sticking off 
the arms to attract mates to intimidate rivals.  
But a peacock does today. It's not flying with 
that tail. And that's probably why wings first  
evolved. And then wings later on were repurposed 
as air foils for flying. And it probably happened  
quite by accident. But the key thing is that 
feathers and wings did not first evolve for  
flying. The fossils make that clear. They were 
repurposed. But how were they repurposed? And  
did this happen once or did this happen multiple 
times? The reality is we don't have a firm answer.  
And it's not because we don't have the fossils. 
It's because in a way we have too many fossils. We  
have so much evidence. It's hard to make a clear 
through line with this evidence. But by and large,  
what the evidence that we know now, what that 
tells me, is that flying probably evolved multiple  
times in dinosaurs. And that modern birds are just 
one of those experiments in flying, the one that's  
happened to reach the modern day. Now, what's the 
evidence for that? Well, the evidence for that is  
there's a whole bunch of dinosaurs with feathers, 
with wings. But they're very different types of  
wings. Some have wings only on their arms. Some 
have wings on their arms and their legs. Some have  
wings on their tail. So usually the wings are 
made of feathers. But there's this one type of  
dinosaur. It's called Yi qi. It's from China. It 
had a wing made of skin. Kind of like a bat. Now,  
it also had feathers on the rest of his body. 
These are such different configurations. I mean,  
it's like the difference between a jet airplane 
and a passenger jet, a fighter jet, a blimp,  
a hang glider, a space shuttle, a rocket ship. The 
vast differences seem to indicate that there were  
different experiments in flying. And probably what 
happened was you reached this point in dinosaur  
history, where there was this zone on the family 
tree of dinosaurs. There were a bunch of small  
dinosaurs that had feathers, that had wings. 
They evolved these from ancestors for different  
reasons. But now they could experiment with 
different ways. And they were all kind of around  
that threshold, where their wings were big enough 
compared to their bodies that just through the  
laws of physics they could flutter about in the 
air a little bit. Modern birds would have come out  
of that or the lineage leading to modern birds, 
which then really changes the question in a way to  
how did modern birds, how did that one particular 
type of flying dinosaur start to fly? And here I  
won't profess to have an answer. I don't think we 
know the answer. There are different theories. And  
some of those theories sound pretty good. But the 
issue is that we weren't around to see it. And I  
think the fossils that we have are compatible with 
different scenarios. Now some of the different  
theories are, there's one that's called the 
ground up theory. And this is the idea that  
you had these small dinosaurs that had evolved 
wings for different reasons for display. And  
they started to move those wings. And those wings 
gave them some lift and some thrust as they were  
running. And they allowed them to defy gravity. 
Okay, that could have definitely happened. Now  
there's an alternative theory that it happened 
the other way from the trees down, that there  
were small dinosaurs with wings living up in the 
canopy, using those wings were displaying to mates  
and rivals, and then also sometimes for gliding, 
for parachuting. And then by moving those wings,  
by flapping them, they would get more control. And 
those wings in a way could be used to manipulate  
gravity. Those are two end members, but there's 
other theories in between that maybe it's little  
baby dinosaurs as they're learning to move 
that flap their wings and that got them a  
bit of lift and thrust. There's all sorts of 
ideas. And evolution by natural selection,  
it doesn't work with a plan in mind. There's 
no grand designer that 230 million years ago,  
when the first dinosaur entered the scene 
on Pangea that pushed some button and said,  
one day these dinosaurs will fly. And no, no, no, 
evolution through natural selection doesn't work  
with that kind of agency. It really just works to 
fit individuals and their populations to their own  
time and place. And if there's some small change 
that can help an individual live a bit longer,  
survive a bit better, reproduce a bit more, 
have more offspring, that sort of feature,  
that is an adaptation that can then cascade 
through the population and change over time. And  
that's how species change over time. So everything 
about birds evolving from dinosaurs evolve through  
that process, steady accumulation of features over 
time. Then after some of these dinosaurs started  
to fly, it's not just that evolution stopped. 
No, no, evolution turned their bodies into more  
efficient flying machines. And two of the ways 
that happens with the tail and with the beak.  
So the tails of the dinosaur ancestors 
of birds are really long, straight,  
bony tails. They had feathers on them, but they 
were quite cumbersome. Birds today basically don't  
have a tail at all. They just have a little nubbin 
of bone. It's called the pica style. If you roast  
a chicken on your Thanksgiving turkey, you might 
see this, this little thing that's often called  
the person's nose in really old cookbooks because 
it's this really fatty glandular mess of tissue  
surrounding this tiny little fused up remnant of 
a tail. So birds have that kind of tail because  
nowadays birds anchor a whole bunch of feathers, 
a big feathers to that tail, that shortened tail,  
and they use those feathers to steer and to break 
and as a rudder. They're very important in take  
off and landing. So they change that long dinosaur 
tail into a tail that's more controllable and can  
be used for aerodynamics. When it comes to the 
front of the body, to the snout, to the face,  
to the business end, birds today have beaks. It's 
one of those classic bird things. The first birds  
did not have beaks. The first birds had a bunch 
of small little razor-sharp steak-knife teeth on  
their jaws that looked just like the teeth of a 
velociraptor. Archaeopteryx, the very oldest true  
bird fossil from the Jurassic, has those raptor 
dinosaur teeth. We see over time the teeth reduce  
and the teeth are replaced by a beak. This seems 
to have happened not just once but many times  
independently. It might have had something to do 
with flying, at least in part losing teeth, having  
a beak may have saved a little bit of weight for 
flying. Being a very lightweight is important,  
but really it probably had more to do with diet 
with what these animals were eating. Maybe with  
foods that they were now able to eat better 
because they were flying. Things like different  
types of insects, different types of seeds, 
things that they could access more easily in  
the forest now that they could fly. But by the end 
of this all, by the end of the Cretaceous period,  
the time of T-Rex, the time of Triceratops, there 
were a whole bunch of birds flying overhead of  
those dinosaurs. Some were still quite primitive. 
Some still had teeth and claws and long tails.  
Others looked a whole lot like birds today with 
a beak, with a short stubby tail, with the fan  
of tailfeathers. That's where the world stood 
on that day that the asteroid came down. When  
we go out from the city, away from cars, away from 
sirens, away from the many sounds of modern life,  
and we just listen, so much of what we hear, the 
soundscape of nature, is birds. It's birds singing  
and tweeting and squawking. You think about birds 
today like songbirds, that sing songs that they  
learn from tutors, that it's like a teacher and a 
student, and they have this babbling phase where  
they learn like a toddler. I was writing 
this book as my little boy was growing up,  
and I just, the parallels there, just blew 
my mind. Now, when did that evolve? That's a  
really interesting question because it gets at, 
would the Cretaceous world of T-Rex, let's say,  
what would that soundscape have been like? Would 
it have been like the modern world, or would it  
have been very different? Might it have just been 
the trees rustling, and the T-Rex's screaming,  
and the bugs buzzing around? The movies certainly 
aren't right. They wouldn't be roaring like lions.  
That's a very big cat thing, enabled by the unique 
vocal cords and bones of the throat of big cats.  
So to me, these are the questions, especially when 
I'm working on films and consulting on programs  
that we often think about. What would that world 
have been like? Sound doesn't fossilize. There's  
no Cretaceous cassette tape that we can find 
in the fossil record and plug in, and hear what  
these things were sounding like. But sometimes we 
do get clues from the fossils themselves. And in  
some rare cases, the vocal organs do preserve, and 
there is a bird fossil from about 68, 69 million  
years ago from Antarctica. This bird is called the 
Vegavis iaai. It's a very modern style bird. It  
had a beak. It grew really fast. It had big wings. 
It was actually in the duck and chicken part of  
the bird family tree. So a very modern bird living 
roughly at the same time as T-Rex. The bones are  
well preserved. And inside the chest cavity, 
right above where the long would have been,  
where basically where the chest connects to 
the throat, is this cartilage structure that  
looks just like the voice box of modern birds, the 
syrinx. So it must be a syrinx. Now a syrinx is a  
uniquely bird thing. We don't have it. We vocalize 
in the larynx in our throat. We have the vocal  
cords. That's the way mammals do it. And actually 
lots of other animals vocalize in the throat too.  
But birds have this organ basically right on top 
of their lungs. And it is an incredible organ. It  
has some of the fastest twitching muscle in the 
animal kingdom. Both sides of it in some species  
can work separately. So it'd be like you can 
speak English and French at the same time. I mean,  
it just blows my mind that birds can do this. We 
know that organ was present in at least some birds  
living in the Cretaceous period. So by the end 
of the Cretaceous, you would have had some birds  
that could sound like the birds of today. But 
it is really just one clue. We need to learn so  
much more. There are birds that say that can 
migrate incredible distances. There are the  
finches on the Galapagos that are still evolving. 
They are spinning out new species in front of  
our eyes. And then there are birds like crows 
and ravens and parrots which have huge brains,  
some of the biggest brains relative to body size 
of any animals. More so even than many mammals.  
They are basically feathered apes. And they're can 
we know it when a parrot repeats words that we say  
more clearly sometimes than we can. Amazing. 
When a crow recognizes a self in a mirror,  
when a crow fashions his own tools. I mean, a 
lot of animals use tools. They might pick up  
a stick and use it to prod open a nest of bugs or 
something or to scratch. And a lot of animals use  
tools. Crows do something that really humans 
and maybe, maybe some other primates can do.  
And that is fashion their own tools. They take 
sticks and other things and actually make hooks  
out of them and use them to get food. These are 
incredible feats of intelligence. And these are  
seen in animals that are with us that share 
the world with us today. And I don't think we  
appreciated enough. I don't think I appreciated 
it enough before writing the book. But I've come  
really come to love a lot of these birds. And it's 
also inspired a lot of my research as a scientist,  
my lab at the University of Edinburgh, a lot of 
my students and I were working now with a big team  
of zoologists and neurobiologists to study how 
cognition and intelligence have evolved over time  
and to try to make links between the intelligence 
and behaviors of modern species, especially birds  
with things like T-Rexes and Brontosaurus. 
You know, how did a dinosaur sense its world?  
We're trying to get at questions like that. And 
it's all inspired by learning more about birds.  
When it comes down to it, for me, it is 
astounding to look at even the most common bird,  
even a bird that might annoy us, even a bird 
that we don't give much credit to. We might swear  
under our breath at the pigeon that's walking in 
front of us on the street. Those birds, though,  
they are dinosaurs. They are real, bonafide, 
unequivocal, absolute 100% living dinosaurs.  
They evolved from dinosaurs. They are part of the 
dinosaur family tree. They have all the classic  
features of dinosaurs. They are the only dinosaur 
that has survived all the whims and catastrophes  
of Earth history and extinctions and volcanoes and 
asteroids to reach the world today. And more than  
anything, that's what I appreciate about birds. 
They are the only ones of my beloved dinosaurs,  
the animals that inspired me to become a 
scientist as a teenager. They're the only  
ones of the dinosaur family that 
have made it to the world today,  
and they give us an opportunity to watch, to 
experience, to appreciate actual, real dinosaurs.  
Want to support the channel? Join the Big Think  
Members community where you get 
access to videos early? Add free.