One of the most common questions we get or emails 
I get is, "Robert, can you be my mentor?" No. No.  
I'm way too busy. I have a lot of stuff going 
on. Biggest myth with mentorship is that you  
need a guy from Shark Tank to be your mentor, or 
you need some celebrity or some leader everybody  
knows. The entire role of a mentor is to teach 
you something that helps you at this point in  
your career. You can learn from anybody.
The second myth of mentorship is that it's a  
constant. It's just not true. When you're 
23 and starting in an organization,  
the advice you need is going to be completely 
different than when you're a senior vice president  
at 45 in an organization. So your mentors, 
like your life, will change over time.
 
One of the other big myths is that there 
is a formal process of being a mentor,  
that you somehow sign this invisible contract or 
something that you're a mentor. Some of my biggest  
mentors in my life had no idea they were mentors 
to me. Like, one of the biggest mentors I ever had  
was Warren Avis, the guy who started Avis Rent A 
Car. I mean, if he was still alive today and you  
asked him, "Were you a mentor to Robert?" He would 
say, "I have no idea what you're talking about."  
Mentorship sometimes is simply by watching, 
learning, and osmosis by taking it all in. So it  
doesn't have to be a formal relationship. You can 
just learn, read, engage in many, many different  
ways, especially today with YouTube. I've done 
thousands of hours of YouTube videos. There's  
probably no question you want to ask me I haven't 
answered somewhere out there in the world.
 
The first key to learning and finding a mentor is 
to be completely open to it. Ego has killed more  
careers than anything else in the world. As great 
as you are, as incredible as you are, as great as  
your idea is, a little bit of humility helps. The 
first key to it is being open to the idea that you  
may not have all the answers. And it's great to 
be confident. It's bad to be arrogant. You can't  
learn from the world if you feel the world has 
nothing to teach you. Mentorship is really about  
learning. It's about being a constant learner 
in life, and you can learn from everybody. One  
of the greatest lessons I ever learned was from 
a janitor, who had an incredible work discipline  
and a really fanatical drive for perfection and 
constant improvement. So it's all around you.
 
This idea of mentorship or opportunity was really 
driven home to me by somebody I considered a  
mentor who told me about the red car theory. So 
if I asked you today how many red cars you saw  
on the way to work, you probably would think 
about it. You'd say, "I don't really know.  
Maybe I saw a couple. I'm sure I saw a couple." 
But you wouldn't know. But if I said to you,  
"Tomorrow on the way to work, count the 
amount of red cars that you're going to see,"  
you would do it. Opportunity is like that, and 
mentorship is like that. When you're open to it,  
it's all around you. So be open to it, look 
for it, and then never be afraid to ask.
 
My general experience in life is while there 
are people who go home and beat their dogs,  
and they're not nice people, 98 percent of the 
people I've encountered are super nice. And if  
you ask for help, most of the time, people will 
help you. So never be afraid to ask for help.
 
What is the key to a great mentor, mentee — always 
a funny word. It's like manatee. I don't know why.  
I always think of the word manatee. Relationship. 
Number one is respect for time. I am a very, very  
busy guy. Now I don't mean that in an arrogant 
way. And if I have free time, you know what I want  
to do? I want to hang out with my kids. I probably 
don't want to hang out with with you. So number  
one, it's respecting the mentor's time. The other 
one is finding the right time to ask the right  
questions. And, you know, things that are natural 
and flow in the course of a relationship work out  
really well and knowing how to communicate.
I'll give you an example. Mark Cuban doesn't talk  
on the phone ever. He hates talking on the 
phone. But if I emailed him at 10:30 tonight,  
he'd get back to me within three minutes. So it's 
knowing how to communicate with somebody, and  
I'm the same way. I hate talking to people on the 
phone because a phone call requires me to disrupt  
my day in order to talk to you, whereas an email, 
I can respond to in the right amount of time.
 
And I think the other one is there's an element 
of personal and work. There's a line. You know?  
People often say at work that work is like we're 
one big family, and the reality is we're not.  
You know? My company was not my family. It was a 
business. My family was my family. And so there's  
always that line that made me uncomfortable where 
people wanted to cross it at night or at certain  
times that took away from my family. So I think 
it's clearly understanding what the boundaries  
are, and everyone is different. Some people are 
incredibly social, and they want you calling them  
on the weekends. I don't want you calling me 
on a weekend. So it's just understanding that.  
But I'm also up at five o'clock in the morning 
every day, and, typically, I don't get bombarded  
with emails at nine. So if you reach out to me 
between five and nine, that's a great time for me.  
But that's on you. You have to know how I work in 
order to get the most effect from me to help you.