My name is Alain de Botton. I'm a philosopher, 
psychotherapist and founder of the School of  
Life. Chapter 1 - Our Destructive Romantic Culture 
We know in theory that love matters a lot. It's in  
every pop song, it's the center of most religions. 
We sometimes lose sight of what that word actually  
means. It's really about connection. And it is 
one of the most beautiful and one of the most  
complicated of all phenomena. Even though we think 
we've been around on this planet for a long time  
trying to figure things out, I'd say we were still 
at the dawn collectively of making sense of this  
phenomenon we call love. And it's no surprise that 
most people will go to their deathbeds thinking,  
not quite sure I figured that side of life out. 
At least many of us will still be grappling with  
some of the complexities of love by the time 
time runs out on us. The most central kind of  
love that people are obsessed about, concerned 
about, is romantic love. That is the intimate  
connection between two human beings who have a 
sexual contact. It's worth saying that there are  
other forms of love. We can love our children, 
we can love animals, we can love ideas, we can  
love tables, chairs, clouds, all sorts of things. 
We are capable of many forms of love, but I'd say  
that when people sing about love and when they cry 
about love, it tends to be the love of one very  
special person we tend to call our soulmate, our 
partner. It used to be the case that when people  
found partners, they would do so according to 
fairly pragmatic considerations. In most nations  
and most parts of the world, for most of history, 
couples were formed not by the individuals  
themselves, but by the wider society, families, 
the village, the court. There were, if you like,  
dynastic marriages. You would get together with 
somebody because they had a plow and you had an  
ox and it seemed like a good match, or you were 
the Duke of Brabant and they were the Princess  
of Naples and that was seen as a wonderful union. 
So you got together for reasons that were nothing  
to do with emotional compatibility. There were 
a lot of tears, there was sadness, there was  
loneliness, but it didn't seem to matter because 
relationships were seen to be about something  
else. There was then a momentous change that 
occurs in, towards the end of the 18th century,  
starting in Britain, France, Germany, parts of 
Italy, a revolution in feeling that we now know  
as romanticism. And one of the central tenets 
of romanticism is that each individual should  
be left to decide on their partner by their 
own, the movements of their own heart. They  
should be left to decide for themselves. It's 
a beautiful idea, it's a very liberating idea,  
it should make a lot of sense. And we have been 
in the romantic age now for, you know, 200 years,  
perhaps shorter, perhaps a little longer, that 
kind of time period. And let's put it plainly,  
it's been a disaster. We're not any appreciably 
happier now in a romantic culture than we were  
in a dynastic culture, where marriages were made 
for dynastic reasons. Why? Because we have failed  
collectively to focus with enough intent on the 
difficulties that couples will have when they  
choose each other according to the movements 
of their own heart. Look, I think a really  
key prejudice of the romantic worldview is that 
if love is working well, it should be following  
instinct. There's been an enormous veneration, it 
must be worship of instinct. Love is described as  
a special feeling, not an asset of ideas, not 
a sense of rationally observable principles,  
but a feeling. You either have the feeling or 
you don't. You must be guided by your feeling.  
There's even a prejudice against language. You 
know, true lovers shouldn't talk too much. They  
should just feel the flattering of their own 
hearts. That's why music has a huge prestige,  
higher than philosophy. When we're in love, 
we don't want to read philosophical tracks,  
we want to hear love songs. That is to do with 
our sense that emotion should be guiding us,  
not reason. Reason is the enemy in the romantic 
worldview of truly happy relationships. If we  
follow reason, that's cold, it may be calculating, 
it's unromantic. And, you know, there are so many  
things that are considered unromantic. And I 
would love to train our audience. But every  
time something seems unromantic, question it. Is 
it truly unromantic if we define romanticism as  
the pursuit of a workable relationship? On that 
basis, is it unromantic to talk about money?  
Is it unromantic to think long and hard 
about childhood patterns of psychological  
development? Is it anti-romantic to spend a lot 
of time thinking about families and friends and  
compatibility at that level? All these things, 
in my view, belong to a truly adequate way of  
surveying whether a couple should be together. 
But I'm also aware that nowadays these things  
are considered very unromantic. To live in a 
romantic culture means to live in a culture that  
has a set of ideas about how good couples should 
form. They should be formed by instinct, that  
everybody has a soulmate, that you'll recognise 
your soulmate by a special, flattery feeling,  
that you shouldn't be asked to account for that 
feeling. You should simply go for it and marry in  
Vegas in two weeks if that's what seizes you. And 
that you should be able to communicate deeply with  
your partner without using language. Through that 
special medium of the heart, through the silence.  
Also that you shouldn't criticise your partner, 
that true partners should love each other for who  
they really are. Which means no desire to grow 
or change. You just accept someone. Couples in  
romantic culture will sometimes complain, "You're 
trying to change me." And this is seen as really  
offensive. It's like, "What? You complain to your 
friends. My partner's trying to change me." "Oh,  
what an awful person. It must be awful. You must 
get out immediately." If you went to an ancient  
Greek, if you went to Athens in 400 BC, and you 
said to an ancient Greek, "What is love? And where  
is the role of criticism?" They would say, "Love 
is a process of education. It's the education of  
emotion." And lovers should of course be able to 
pick each other up for things that they don't spot  
in one another. The whole process should be trying 
to develop into the best version of themselves,  
rather than simply staying stuck in an admiration 
for who they are today. The whole process should  
be dynamic. Become who you could be, not worship 
who you happen to be right now. All of this sounds  
very strange in romantic culture, which is why 
relationships are so difficult in our time. Let's  
remember that a person's life satisfaction 
is determined by up to around 70% by the  
quality of their personal relationships. A Martian 
hearing that statistic, visiting planet Earth,  
would think, "Well, clearly Earthlings, given 
the enormous role of love, will be spending 70%  
of their money and 70% of their educational 
time working out how on Earth this business  
of love works. Is that true?" We spend hardly 
any time rationally thinking about it. None of  
us are made to sit through classes in attachment 
theory, classes in apology, classes in listening,  
classes in communication. No, you know, physics 
is important, geography is important, don't get  
me wrong. But is there no time for this, given its 
role in our lives? Do we really want to leave this  
to chance? And the answer is yes. And why? Because 
we live in a romantic culture that sees something  
adverse in planning and thinking and reflecting 
too hard on the business of love. It's very  
deleterious and it's been a serious problem for 
humanity. One of the most powerful disseminators  
of romantic culture is art. And by art I mean all 
the leading artistic media. Film, definitely. You  
know, if you were learning about love from films, 
you would be very confused. And that's why many  
of us are confused, because films, and I include 
that television shows and other narrative forms,  
these things are hugely misleading. They simply do 
not show what a real relationship is like. I mean,  
probably you can count on one hand that the 
number of films that have accurately shown love,  
I think one of the most accurate representations 
of love is Richard Linklater's Before Trilogy,  
which ended up with Before Midnight. It's 
a wonderful reckoning really with the real  
complexities of love. But you know, most films are 
not that. Most films are blithe, are superficial,  
are not modest enough in showing us what's 
really going on between couples. It's also  
intimidated through music. And music constantly 
gives us little miniature stories about how love  
works. And you know, the music is terrific, 
but it's not accurate to what's going on. And  
it presses the wrong buttons. Poetry, no one 
really reads poetry nowadays. If they did,  
the problem exists in poetry too. So we have 
so much media around, and yet we're still so  
much strangers to ourselves. I would say that the 
single greatest, most misleading disseminator of  
ideas on love is culture and art. The problem is 
very heavily located there. Chapter 2 - Lessons on  
Love from Psychotherapy I think we need to split 
history into phases. The phase of the dynastic  
relationship where people would get together 
for dynastic and financial and family reasons.  
That ended. That's behind us. Then we moved 
into the Romantic Age, and that caused a lot  
of problems and it lasted 250 years or so. We 
need to draw a line under that. We need to move  
towards something that I call the therapeutic age. 
The age of the therapeutic relationship. What on  
earth is a therapeutic relationship? Let me try 
and explain. A therapeutic relationship begins  
with the insights of psychotherapy. Psychotherapy 
has been with us for 120 years or so. It is the  
most sophisticated understanding of how human 
beings function emotionally. It's based on the  
insights of Sigmund Freud and all those who come 
after him. It is not going away. Some people say,  
"Oh, that's... isn't that old hat? Wasn't Freud 
proved wrong?" Sorry, no, he wasn't. I mean,  
of course, many, many areas of Freudian thought 
are wrong, but the fundamental insight that we  
have and unconscious, that how we love as adults 
was shaped by our childhoods, that there are  
defences that we put in place to protect ourselves 
as children that cause difficulties for us as  
adults. This is indisputably true. And that's 
not going anywhere. All of us are the result of a  
very slow and long process of emotional education 
that took place between the ages of zero and ten.  
This is extremely hard to perceive. Most of us 
are like, "I never went to an emotional education  
school. I just grew up, you know, my parents 
lived in Idaho or Milton Keynes or Frankfurt  
or Yokohama." There's no sense that we've learned 
anything in particular. But my goodness, we have.  
All of us reach adulthood having learned very 
complicated languages of love and relationships.  
Languages that tell us whether a human being 
can be trusted, whether we are worth something,  
whether communication is good, what happens when 
somebody is angry, what happens when we are shy,  
what happens when we sulk, how do we tell someone 
something important? All of these things will have  
been imbibed in us. Let me give you a metaphor. 
Very few of us, I'd say none of us, remember  
what it was like to learn language, to learn to 
speak. And yet, most of us know how to speak.  
But it went in invisibly. While we were in the 
kitchen drawing butter cups or in the garden doing  
handstands, all of us will have learned incredibly 
complex patterns of language, of grammar. We have  
learned about the pluperfect. We have learned 
about the subjunctive without even knowing such  
things exist. We have learned tens of thousands 
of words and all sorts of ways of expressing  
ourselves without knowing a thing. I want to say 
that a similar process goes on at the level of  
emotional language. In the same ways we learn 
a grammatical language, we learn an emotional  
language. As I say, a language about trust, about 
kindness, about communication, about self-worth,  
about dialogue, etc. All these things that 
we take with us into adulthood, we learned,  
and we learned from one place in particular, our 
families of origin, our mother and our father, or  
whoever our caregivers happen to be. These people 
are immensely, immensely important in shaping our  
emotional grammar. In the same way as they shaped 
our linguistic grammar, I mean anyone who's had a  
parent with a regional accent of one kind or 
another will know that that sticks. You will  
pick up that regional accent from your parents and 
you will, in my stick with you, all of your life.  
Same thing goes on with, as it were, the regional 
accents of emotional intelligence. You may speak  
a regional accent where every man is extremely 
frightening, or every woman has a tendency towards  
alcoholism, or everyone who is kind is also 
slightly sadistic, or everyone who you depend  
on is also depressed. Now these are all very, very 
difficult languages to have been exposed to and to  
pick up on. Many of us, sadly, have come through 
childhood with suboptimal language acquisition,  
emotional acquisition, if you like, and we take 
that into adulthood unconsciously. We have no  
clue where we've come from, and because we don't 
know where we've come from, we don't know how to  
plot a sensible course. And I'm going to mention 
something very important, which is attachment  
theory. One of the most useful tools for working 
out why relationships work and why they don't was  
formulated by two researchers of near-genus, John 
Bowlby and Mary Ainsworth, two researchers working  
in the United Kingdom in the 1950s. They had been 
very marked by a phenomenon that took place in  
the 40s during the Second World War. In the Second 
World War, huge numbers of children were separated  
from their parents at a young age and were sent 
to families outside London to escape the German  
bombing of British cities. What researchers soon 
realized was that this was a catastrophe for the  
children. The children began to exhibit extremely 
distressed behavior. They would wet the bed, they  
would get very angry, they would not be able to 
eat. They would be in states of almost cataclysmic  
meltdown. Why was this? Materially, they were 
well looked after. Psychologically, emotionally,  
they were bereft. And researchers, this is one 
of the most moving stories in the history of  
the Second World War, researchers realized that if 
this carried on, this would do more damage for the  
next generation than any number of war dead, that 
the risks of German bombs were actually smaller  
than the risks of ruptured emotional attachment. 
And on that basis, these psychological researchers  
wrote to the Ministry of Defence and the Home 
Office and got the children transferred back into  
their homes in the cities of the United Kingdom. 
And thereby a great tragedy was averted. So that  
after the height of the crisis, children were 
returned to their birth families and looked after  
again by their closest figures of attachment. Why 
are we talking about this? Because this was the  
birth of attachment theory. From watching how 
children were around their close caregivers in  
childhood, it was discovered that all of us 
are, in a sense, tethered to a story that we  
first have in childhood around our caregivers. 
And the researchers in attachment theory began  
to divide human beings into categories, 
highlighting their characteristic ways  
of behaving around relationships. To give you a 
few of the categories, they identified something  
that we now know as avoidant attachment. 
Avoidant attachment is a way of relating to  
a troublesome and troubling caregiver who in some 
ways lets you down. And by the way, caregivers,  
it's estimated let down around 50% of children. 
So around half of the population of any nation  
you care to mention has got children wandering 
around with attachment wounds. It's an important  
statistic to bear in mind when you go on a date. 
You know, 50% chance you've got somebody with an  
attachment wound. That's not the end of the 
story. We can work with attachment wounds,  
but we need to know that those attachment wounds 
are there. That's how we're going to try and solve  
the problem by knowing that the problem is there. 
An avoidantly attached person is somebody who  
responds to the insecurities in their relationship 
with their caregiver by essentially moving away,  
by pushing away intimacy. The classic sentence 
that an avoidantly attached person will say  
to their partner after a few beautiful weeks, a 
few mini breaks, a few lovely times, they'll go,  
"This is feeling a bit too intense," and then 
they will withdraw in some way. They'll start  
causing a problem. They'll say, "Oh, I need to 
spend a weekend with my friends or my mother  
really wants to see me." They'll pull away from a 
relationship because it's getting too intense. And  
really what they mean is, "I'm so afraid of love, 
and the way that I deal with my fear of love is  
to pull away." So that is avoidant attachment, and 
we see it all over the place. Some of your viewers  
will be avoidantly attached. Some of your viewers 
will have recognized this with a partner that they  
had. It's not that the avoidantly attached person 
doesn't want love. They want love. They're just  
terrified of it. Why are they terrified of it? 
Because it didn't go well for them in childhood.  
And this is something that we need to really keep 
in mind. We've got a culture that thinks that  
everybody's looking for love. They're not. They're 
ostensibly looking for love, but they're just as  
busy pushing love away when it comes, running away 
from it, and making sure it doesn't succeed. Why?  
Because love is a threat. If you have grown up in 
an environment where love was not possible, where  
relationships between caregivers and children 
were not safe, you will have defended yourself  
against the risks of disappointment. You will have 
insulated yourself. And then when love comes your  
way in adulthood, what you will do against your 
knowledge, against your conscious knowledge,  
is make sure that love does not succeed. You 
will sabotage your own chances of a successful  
relationship. Let me give you a metaphor. Imagine 
that you've grown up in a prison camp. You  
were never fed, or the diet was very meager. You 
didn't have much food. And then suddenly, one day,  
the prison gates are opened, and you get to go 
to a banquet, and you get to eat anything you  
like. And what might be the response? Panic. You 
might make yourself sick. You might try and eat  
the food. You might even kill you, or threaten 
to kill you, because why? You cannot metabolize  
the goodness on offer, because you have learned 
to function with an emotionally restricted diet,  
an emotionally restricted diet where you've made 
do with very little. And so when there's a lot  
suddenly on offer, you panic, and you think this 
is too intense. You think that somebody who has  
been going with almost no food will think it's 
far too intense to eat a rich chocolate cake.  
And sometimes healthy love is like a rich 
chocolate cake, which we cannot bear. And  
some of your viewers will know the phenomenon 
whereby you offer somebody love. You love them,  
you feel that you want to give them a good 
life, you want to be a good partner to them,  
and they sort of accept it, and then suddenly 
they run away. And if there's a dynamite under it,  
this is a very common occurrence. What's 
going on? It's not that it's too bad,  
it's too good. And for some of us who had to get 
used to very poor relationships, the greatest  
threat is not a bad relationship. That's fine. 
It's a good relationship. And you get patterns,  
horrific patterns, where people have had an 
unstable and violent father, let's say, uncaring  
and absent mother, and you think that these people 
are going to get to adulthood, and they're really  
going to make it up for themselves. They're going 
to find the love they yearn for, and they're going  
to make it work. And what happens to them? Maybe a 
nice lover comes along. Someone kind offers them a  
home, as it were, an emotional home. And maybe at 
the beginning they can bear it. It's easier at the  
beginning. But then the problem starts setting in 
when it really becomes clear that love may work.  
That's when the traumatised attachment lover 
gets their sticks of dynamite out and starts  
to blow the foundations of the house up so that 
they can return to the suffering that feels more  
familiar. What you need to understand is that in 
love we don't look for what will make us happy.  
Absolutely not. We look for what feels familiar. 
For some people, happiness and familiarity are  
one. But for many of us, they are not. For many of 
us, what is most familiar is a sense of not being  
loved properly, a sense of not being sure where 
we stand, a sense that someone may threaten us,  
a sense that someone may abandon us. That is our 
true home. And if that's our true home, we will  
be guided with a kind of honing instinct to refine 
that, which is why you find again and again that  
the children of alcoholics do not head for sober 
partners. They head for people who are struggling  
with alcohol. Why the offspring of violent parents 
do not head for calm and kind partners. They head  
for people who are struggling with their temper. 
Now, what do we do about this? One optimistic  
story is to be found in the work of Sigmund Freud, 
who in many ways everything returns to him. He  
observed something which he called the repetition 
compulsion. He observed that human beings are not  
guided by a search for pleasure. They are guided 
by a search to repeat patterns, a repetition  
compulsion often of pain. And he proposed an 
ingenious and I think optimistic answer to this.  
He argued that what many of us are doing when 
we repeat traumatic experiences, for example,  
getting back together with a violent partner or 
an alcoholic partner, what we're really doing  
there is not simply suffering at infinite for no 
reason. What we're trying to do is to master a  
challenge that we couldn't master in childhood and 
we're trying to master it with the resources of  
adulthood. In other words, we're trying to get the 
alcoholic partner to stop drinking in a way that  
we couldn't when we were children. We're trying 
to get the distance emotionally and communicative  
partner to start to talk in the way that our 
mother or father didn't. We're trying to make  
it up in the present. And Freud realized that for 
many of us we wouldn't find the kind of excitement  
that we need until we locate a partner who does 
suggest that they suffer from the very problem  
that our crucial caregiver suffered from. Until 
we find a little bit of an echo of the original  
suffering. But the optimistic story is perhaps 
we can work with them in the relationship to heal  
the pain. It's a very optimistic story. It works 
sometimes and sometimes we may need to cut our  
losses. You know, love is not always about keeping 
going. Love is also sometimes about knowing that  
you are in a pattern and that pattern is driving 
you to destruction. And when that happens,  
it's also important to save, to know how to save 
yourself from shore destruction. Chapter 3 - The  
Playbook for a Successful Relationship First of 
all, the idea of a playbook sounds strange. The  
idea of a playbook that you need to create to get 
in a relationship sounds really odd. You think,  
I don't need a playbook. I just need to head on 
in there, get a dating app and off I go and a  
nice new pair of clothes. But isn't it interesting 
and wouldn't it be lovely to have a playbook that  
would be trying to guide you to acquire the 
knowledge that you need for love? So the idea  
that love is a skill rather than an emotion is a 
strange one, but I think an absolutely essential  
one in the world view that I'm positing. You know, 
if somebody said, I'm going to climb Mount Everest  
or K2, you would say, OK, how have you prepared 
for this? And you'd be expecting them to show up  
with ropes, with training programs, with oxygen, 
with specially prepared packs of food. You can get  
the metaphor. We walk into the mountain of love 
without sufficient preparation and equipment. And  
then we're surprised that we routinely tumble off 
the mountain and we blame the other person. We say  
we didn't match the right person. We haven't found 
our person. We go back on the dating app and we go  
ever further to try and find the right person. 
Don't get me wrong. Dating apps have their role.  
Sometimes we need to scan and see who's out there 
and find a person who halfway meets us where we  
want to be. But once you've found a more or less 
suitable person, that's when the work begins.  
And the work is to turn a stranger into 
somebody that you can understand and who  
can understand you without bottling it, without 
panicking, without throwing them in the bin,  
without saying we can't work this out if after 
five weeks in a pleasant mini break in Copenhagen  
we suddenly have a conflict. No, the point is you 
need to stay where you are and try and figure it  
out. But most people give up too soon. They say 
we can't possibly do this. And they run for the  
hills, go back on the dating app and find the 
next person with whom they will then try out an  
equally unfulfilling attempt to match their heart 
with strangers. What we need to do is to start to  
create right people rather than search for them. 
And what does that mean to create a right person?  
It means to work on yourself psychologically and 
therapeutically so that you understand your script  
from childhood and do not simply play it out onto 
innocent person after innocent person, that you  
take responsibility for the problems that you 
are bringing into a relationship. At the School  
of Life which I founded, an institution that is 
dedicated to emotional growth and development,  
we tell our people that when they honour date 
with somebody, among the first questions is to  
ask people playfully, "How are you crazy?" 
What does that mean? How are you crazy? Why  
is everybody crazy? They're not necessarily 
crazy. Well, all of us have stuff that we need  
to be on top of. And if your person at dinner 
says to you, "Yeah, I get the question. Yeah,  
I've got my crazy. And my crazy is this. My crazy 
is that. My father, my mother." This is turning  
out to be a safe person. If the person goes, "How 
do you mean I can't possibly answer that question?  
That's rude. You think I'm not right or imperfect. 
Run for the hills. Drop it right there and then."  
I'm exaggerating, but this is probably not a 
person you should be hanging out with because  
none of us need or can have perfect partners. But 
what we can have and must search for and must try  
to become is people who know enough about their 
patterns to be able to warn their prospective  
partners of what's going on and take averting 
action. The beginning of therapeutic relationships  
is to know that two people, when entering a 
couple, are not entering without a lot of history.  
It is essential that couples learn as much as 
possible about that history so that they are  
ready for the challenges and perplexities of 
love. A therapeutic relationship requires that  
each partner get on top of their dynamics, that 
date back to childhood, and are able to discuss  
them with relative grace, patience, and insight 
with their partner so that when problems arise and  
they will, they can adopt a therapeutic language. 
It is therapeutic to say, for example, when there  
is a conflict, "I hear your point of view. It 
may not be mine, but I hear that it's yours." It  
is not therapeutic to say, "You're wrong. You're 
an idiot, and you're just like your mother." Or,  
indeed, like your father. This is not therapeutic. 
I'm kidding, but I'm making a very serious point.  
Indeed, we do not tend to talk to each other 
in therapeutically informed language. We shout,  
we scream, we blame, we shape-shift, we don't 
take responsibility. We do all sorts of things  
that doom us in relationships. Then we stand 
back and we say, "We're surprised. We are a  
society that is obsessed with finding the right 
person without pausing to think, 'How do I become  
the right person? How do I work on myself?' 
Understanding that cannot be done simply,  
and this is paradoxical, by being on your own. 
This is another unbelievable mystery. You can't  
understand yourself just by being with yourself. 
You need other people. Why is that? It's like, why  
do you need a mirror to see the back of your head? 
Because we don't have eyes there. We need someone  
to help us to see the things that are really 
hard for us to see. And psychotherapy gives us  
a forum in which we can come, tell the therapist 
about what's going on in our lives, explain what  
happened last Monday, explain what happened when 
we took that trip to New York or Buffalo, wherever  
it is, what happened, and then slowly pattern 
recognition sets in. The therapist is able to go,  
"It's funny. In that last relationship you did 
this, this new relationship you're doing that,  
and you mentioned that your parent did something 
that sounds kind of similar." So I wonder what's  
going on, and then slowly insight comes. We start 
to put the pieces together. We think, "I'm up to  
something. I'm doing something." And that way is 
liberation. We can start to break the unconscious  
stories that we're living. Psychotherapy works 
with this concept known as "defences" or "defense  
mechanisms." In other words, these are tools that 
our minds adopt to try and shield themselves from  
accurate knowledge of their own workings. It's 
going to sound really odd, like, why don't we  
just embrace self-knowledge with open arms? Why 
do we need to run away from it? The answer is that  
knowledge of ourselves is frightening. It's really 
awful to have to learn certain things. It may make  
us very anxious. It may make us so sorrowful. 
It may panic us, and so we push away unwelcome  
information. I think that we still perhaps can't 
quite bear how complicated we are. You know,  
we're very squeamish creatures. We don't like to 
sit with ourselves. We don't like to sit with our  
emotions. Self-knowledge remains an enormously 
elusive goal. You know, I think it is the most  
important goal of life. To understand oneself is 
literally the meaning of life. The ancient Greeks  
knew this, "Know thyself" was the most important 
command in ancient Greek culture and philosophy.  
"Know thyself" - the most important thing 
you could do. If you said nowadays, you know,  
in a conversation with friends or colleagues, 
"What's your goal? Where are you trying to get  
to next year? What are you trying to do?" You 
know, say, "Know thyself." People would go,  
"That's a strange person there. We don't know 
about this person." It's not an acceptable goal.  
We know that it's good to make money. We know that 
it's good to travel to foreign countries, to learn  
how to fry garlic and to learn salsa. It's not 
particularly esteemed to know yourself. And that's  
why we wander around strangers to ourselves and 
therefore enormously confusing. And let's put it  
frankly, dangerous to other people. Because 
a person who doesn't understand themselves,  
you know, if confronted with their behavior 
will go, "It wasn't me. I didn't do it." Or,  
"I can't think." Or, you know, "Ask me tomorrow." 
They can't account for themselves. They don't know  
why they do the stuff they do. They will simply, 
in a relationship, for example, bail out of a  
relationship going, "You know, it's getting 
too intense." And why? They don't know. They  
don't understand what they themselves are doing. 
Even though, you know, they may have spent five  
years learning, you know, Spanish. They may have 
taken an advanced degree in Japanese. They may be,  
you know, very active in all sorts of ways. 
They may have learned pottery. They may be  
holding down a great job in marketing something. 
But the point is they will not have learned the  
really true constituents of emotional functioning 
because they've been able to get away with it.  
And part of the playbook of becoming a better 
lover is to dial down your defense mechanisms,  
to observe them. A typical defense mechanism is to 
push responsibility onto other people, to say it's  
your fault. For example, someone tries to tell you 
something about yourself. Someone says, "I think  
that you, you know, you're a little bit this when 
that happens." You know, and rather than going,  
"Thank you. Let me think about that." You go, "Why 
are you being rude?" Or, "This is not a good time  
for me." Or, "I can't absorb this now." In other 
words, you push away information that might have  
helped you. Not because it's false, but because 
it's difficult to absorb. And that's often what  
happens to us. All of us, all of us are involved 
in defense mechanisms. All of us can't quite bear  
the full truth about ourselves. It helps us to 
go to psychotherapy. I know that, you know, AIs,  
you know, deliver some aspects of therapy. It can 
be good at points. The good thing about a real  
human being is that they are not guided just by 
you. They've got their own independent judgment.  
And also, you're in a relationship with them. 
And that relationship is part of what heals you,  
because the relationship with the therapist is a 
harbinger of the relationship that you can then  
take out into the world, a relationship of trust 
and mutual understanding. This is something that  
AIs not going to be able to replace anytime 
soon. So we need to understand ourselves. We  
need to understand the past. And then we need a 
certain spirit. One of the things that we need  
in that playbook of love is a good sense of humor. 
That could sound superfluous, like what on earth,  
you know, why do we need a sense of humor? Well, a 
sense of humor is a modesty about our capacity to  
understand anything. And if we can signal to our 
partners that, you know, we're a little stupid.  
We don't get it. We don't have all the answers. 
That is a wonderful emollient. It's a wonderful  
lubricant to love, because it just dials down the 
temperature. If your partner is able to say, "Ah,  
I may not have understood this. I may not be 
getting it. That's brilliant." And if they can  
make a little joke too, that's great. You know, if 
two people can learn to see each other as idiots,  
but lovable idiots, that's a beautiful moment in 
love. It could sound negative. It's not. It's not.  
It's the most generous thing you can do. We are 
two blind people helping each other to find a way  
forward. If that's the spirit in which we can 
enter love, that is a spirit of generosity, a  
spirit of mutual forgiveness. Too often we get on 
our high horses. This is the way it is. I know the  
answer. This is what I think. That is not a friend 
of love. So we need, if you like, a modesty,  
a humorous modesty. Let me give you another idea. 
Another thing that we need in order to make love  
work is a certain degree of pessimism. You know, 
optimism is the enemy of love. If we think that  
we will have a perfect love story, a love story 
with no ruffles in it, with no kinks in it, no,  
it's not going to happen. We need to accept that 
even a really good relationship has constant  
moments of crisis. And that's okay. The problem 
is not crisis. The problem is how do we repair  
crises? Can we repair them with forgiveness, with 
understanding, and most of all with curiosity? Can  
we get curious about why we had a bust up? Can we 
be searching for why our attachment patterns are  
not compatible? Can we get interested in why we're 
difficult to love, and that way will become easier  
to love? So pessimism is not an enemy of love. 
Knowing that there is no such thing as the right  
person actually helps you to find a good enough 
person. You know, a few years ago I wrote an  
essay that went viral. I wrote it for the New York 
Times. It was called "Why You Will Marry The Wrong  
Person". Why did that essay go viral? I think 
it went viral because people all feel... Sorry,  
let me correct that. Not all people, but many, 
many people feel that they have married the wrong  
person. And they panic about this and they feel 
so ashamed. So here's an essay in the New York  
Times that says, "Yeah, we're all going to marry 
the wrong person." And you know what? It's okay.  
You don't need to marry the right person. You 
need to marry a good enough person. You know,  
compatibility is not a precondition of love. 
Compatibility is the fruit of love. If we get  
together with someone and we find that there 
are differences, right? They have one kind  
of attachment style. We have another. They like 
golf. We like tennis. They like the curtains to  
be green. We like the curtains to be yellow. 
Whatever it is. Too often in modern romantic  
dating culture, the answer is get out. Just get 
out. Find someone else. Find someone better. And  
that's why all the technological tools are all 
about putting new people in front of you. Of  
course, sometimes you need to find new people. 
But as much as finding new people, what you need  
to do is to learn to live with the people who 
are in front of you. With the people that you've  
found. Many of us have already found a good enough 
partner. And yet we throw them in the bin because  
we are taught by romantic culture that we can 
always find a perfect person with whom it will  
click immediately. And this is such a destructive 
idea. If you think, you know what? The work starts  
here. The work starts when you have a problem. 
Then you roll up your sleeves and you think,  
OK, well, I know that I, you know, broadly think 
this person is a nice person. Now we're going to  
work at making sure that it can work. And so we're 
going to talk and we're going to take this problem  
apart. We're going to become like engineers 
who've got a malfunctioning machine. We're  
going to sort it out. This sounds unromantic, 
doesn't it? Imagine saying, in order to make  
my relationship work every evening, I've talked 
for an hour in really patient ways. You think,  
oh my God, go to Vegas, find someone easier. Well, 
good luck to you. Maybe you'll find that person.  
But for some of us, especially some of us who've 
come through difficult relationships, difficult  
relationships in our past, we may need to go and 
do that kind of excavation. Maybe that's fine.  
I think that a good enough person is someone who 
will engage with the business of working towards  
compatibility. That they won't assume that you 
are wrong just because there are problems. They  
will know how to repair crises. They will know how 
to be curious. They will know how to listen. They  
will know how to be patient. That is compatible 
with all sorts of problems. Sexual problems,  
relational problems, administrative problems. 
Doesn't matter. You can work through them. So the  
wrong person is someone who stonewalls, who always 
blames you, who blanks out, who says, it's not my  
responsibility, or, you know, it was easier with 
my ex and, you know, why are you so difficult,  
etc. These people are trouble because they 
are refusing the work of love. So it doesn't  
matter if you have many, many difficulties. 
That's okay. The problem is your attitude  
to the difficulties. And the solution is 
an attitude of indulgence, of curiosity,  
and of calm consideration of the flaws that unite 
us all. We are all mad monkeys. And so long as  
we've been kind towards the mad monkey and all of 
us, we'll be okay. One of the real problems, and,  
you know, there's simply no solution, but we need 
to accept that there's a real problem, is how long  
it takes to work out who we are as lovers, as 
people interested in relationships, who we are.  
It takes so long, and it takes especially long to 
try and change our patterns. You know, if we are  
somebody who sabotages relationships every time 
that love comes along, how long is that going to  
take to unwind this? Well, it takes insight, but 
then it takes, as it were, work, true work. And  
sometimes people go to therapy for six sessions 
or 12 sessions, and they go, "I haven't changed.  
Therapy doesn't work." And let's come back to my 
earlier example about language. Imagine that you  
decided middle age as an English speaker to pick 
up Korean or Finnish, and you went to six lessons,  
and you tried to learn Finnish and Korean. And by 
the end of six lessons, you could barely ask for,  
you know, barely say your own name or say hello. 
And then you blamed it on the whole process,  
and you said, "I'm not learning this language. 
It's rubbish." People would say, "You're being  
too impatient." And I think that some of the 
same holds true for rewiring our emotional  
language. We can't pick this up in six sessions 
of 50 minutes. It takes a long time. A pattern  
that was laid down over decades is going to take 
many, many years to figure it out. It's, I mean,  
believe me, it's bad news. I wish it weren't so. 
Can we do anything in the meantime? Yes, of course  
we can. We can be learning and walking. We don't 
have to pause and just sit by the roadside. We can  
be starting on the path of relationships. 
We can start from a relatively young age,  
but we need to be doing the work alongside, and 
we need to be able to at least do the first thing,  
which is to say, "I'm learning. I'm a learner." 
There's a real difference between someone who  
goes, "I know it all," and someone who knows 
that they are still learning. When Socrates, the  
ancient Greek philosopher, was asked why he was 
the wisest person in antiquity, he said, "Because  
I know what I don't know." In other words, that 
the birth of true wisdom is associated with the  
knowledge of your ignorance. I think that's the 
best way we can proceed also in relation to our  
love lives. There are lots of questions that we 
could learn to ask ourselves and our partners in  
order to try and find a better relationship. 
One of them is this. When I get close to you,  
how does that feel? To open up a window onto some 
of the complexities that occur when somebody gets  
close. If I love you, what part of you might 
worry? That's a good question. Does any part of  
you worry? Another really useful question is how 
do I respond when someone is trying to communicate  
something to me? Do I stonewall or do I accept? 
Am I able to pause and think the issue might  
be with me? Or do I always have to go, "I can't 
answer that. It's the other person. You're being  
unfair. You're putting me under pressure." What 
is your level of emotional dexterity? So that's  
a good question to be asking yourself as well. 
Also, one of the really good questions in any  
relationship is to say, "How have I annoyed 
you?" How have I frustrated you? You know,  
a lot of what happens between couples is there are 
things that are bubbling away beneath the surface  
that people can't find the courage to say. And 
because they can't say them, the problem doesn't  
improve. The problem gets worse. People can't have 
sex anymore. A lot of the reason why people can't  
have sex has got nothing to do with sex. It's to 
do with the fact they feel disconnected and angry  
and misunderstood. You can't have sex with someone 
who you feel misunderstood by or you feel furious  
with. What helps desire is trust. And the way to 
build up trust is to communicate, and particularly  
communicate, ruptures of trust. If you want to 
have good sex, don't get a candle, don't go to  
a hotel. Start to ask each other, "Have I annoyed 
you? Is there something I've done that you'd like  
to tell me?" And you say this patiently, not in 
the middle of the night when you're stressed or  
maybe you've drunk too much, but when you're calm, 
when there's a sense of lightness and forgiveness,  
use the right moment to ask the right question. 
We're living in a world where therapeutic language  
and insights have spread for the first time 
far outside the consulting room. There is mass  
adoption at a superficial level of therapeutic 
language. And the area where we find this most  
obviously is social media and in particular 
Instagram, which is enormous, it's an enormous  
force in the world, and it has brought up a 
generation, I'd say, to speak in pseudo or vaguely  
therapeutic terms. I don't mean that as an insult. 
Some of these insights have been fantastic.  
People are now able to talk about, let's say, 
attachment theory, the mention of an avoidant  
attachment theory or an anxious attachment theory 
in many circles now doesn't create the puzzlement  
that it was generating 15 years ago. 15 years 
ago, this was not common knowledge. That was  
still in the university, in textbooks and in the 
consulting room. Now it's out in the world. And  
the medium that has changed this, as I say, is 
social media. What's the problem? I'll tell you  
one of the problems. One of the problems is whose 
fault it is. The tone of a lot of social media  
posting blames the problem for the struggles in 
relationships, fairly and squarely on the partner,  
not on yourself. There is an obsession with 
finding borderline people, narcissistic people,  
avoidance, anxious people, out in the world. And 
of course they exist, but the tone is the problem.  
The tone says, get out. These are red flags and 
everybody that you're meeting, the reason why you  
haven't made a relationship work, is because these 
people are unbalanced psychologically. My answer  
is this. If you are looking to find a person 
with no problems at all, with no psychological  
disturbances, good luck to you. If you're looking 
to find somebody with no red flags, good luck to  
you. Everybody has red flags. That's part of what 
it means to be human. That's the story of Genesis.  
The story of Genesis is Adam and Eve had some 
red flags. That's what it is to be human being,  
is somebody with a red flag. So the problem is not 
the red flag, it's how you deal with it. And this  
is what I worry that therapeutic culture on social 
media doesn't train us to do. It doesn't train  
us for patience. It doesn't train us to think we 
might be the problem. It doesn't ask us to think  
what we've brought to the situation. It doesn't 
create an atmosphere of forgiveness. The reason  
is very simple, outrage sells. It's more fun, it 
feels more spirited. It's punchier to say that ex  
of yours, they're the avoidant, they're crazy, 
they're narcissistic. It sounds better and it  
leaves everybody happier. But long term, it's not 
the solution. Chapter 4. Overcoming status anxiety  
and loneliness. You know, we mustn't forget that 
one of the sources of love that is most important  
to us is not just interpersonal romantic love, but 
the love that you get from other people. Strangers  
dependent on your standing in the community, your 
status. You know, status is a really interesting  
feature of everybody's ambitions. You know, 
why do we work so hard? We work so hard,  
not just for material rewards. We work hard in 
order to gain the esteem, the respect, the regard  
of people whose good affections we rely on to feel 
good about ourselves. If you said to somebody,  
you've got a choice, either we'll give you $10 
million a year, but every time anyone sees your  
face, they'll go, oh my God, I hate that person, 
they're awful. I despise that person. You could  
have that option, or we'll give you a minimum 
wage, absolute minimum, bare minimum to survive.  
But every time anyone sees you, they'll go, oh my 
God, that person is amazing, it's just great, etc.  
We know which one we'd pick. We know that we would 
pick the love and affection of the stranger and  
the respect and esteem of our community, way over 
simple material rewards. Now, in our culture, the  
reason why most of us work so hard and the reason 
why most of us are so interested in money has  
nothing to do with the money. It's just that money 
is the chief conduit towards the love and respect  
that we stand to gain from our communities. If you 
change the status system and what you get status  
for, you will change the incentive structure. 
There have been periods in history where the  
number one thing you needed to do in order to have 
a high status was to worship God really intently.  
And then if you're good at worshiping God, you'd 
be considered amazing. And then people did that  
in droves, and that was considered very, very 
serious. In other cultures, it was considered  
very serious to be a good hunter. So people became 
more and more good at hunting, and that was what  
you did. And that was the root to getting status. 
Nowadays, how do we know what the status system is  
based on? We know it because of a very simple 
question that any stranger will ask us within  
normally 30 seconds of meeting us. What do you 
do? And according to how you answer that question,  
people are either going to be really pleased to 
see you. "Oh, great! We must hang out." Or they'll  
leave you alone by the peanuts and they don't want 
to know you. We're living in a world of snobs. A  
snob is really anyone who takes a small part of 
you and comes to a global decision of what you're  
worth and how much love you're worth. And that is 
the reality, the brute reality of the way in which  
we live in society. We will be judged ruthlessly 
by our careers, by what is on our business card.  
And we will be given love, status love, not 
romantic love, but status love. Maybe romantic  
love too, that's another consideration. But 
generally status love according to how impressive  
we are in the field of careers. It's why we work 
so hard, it's why we're so panicked about careers,  
and it's why there's such despair when careers 
don't work out. We're losing not just materially,  
we're losing our sense of our good name in the 
eyes of society. It's very brutal. I think older  
societies, pre-modern societies, had some built-in 
safety valves to try and protect people from that  
unitary sense that what you are worth is what 
you do, that you are what you do. It's always  
been somewhere there in the system because we 
are material creatures, we do depend on material  
goods, so it's always been there as part of the 
mix. But other cultures have softened this in  
a way that ours no longer does. They've softened 
it in a number of ways. Firstly through religion,  
through the mass adoption of religion. And the 
interesting thing about religion is generally  
the gods that people have worshiped love people, 
not for what they do but for who they are. They  
look inside your soul. And that's a vital defence 
mechanism. You're giving unto Caesar what Caesar  
wants and the rest is up to God. And that gives 
you a sense of freedom. It's like, well, I may  
not be performing so well in my career, but I've 
got an alternative route to love and affection.  
That's a huge defence. The other thing that 
really protected people was isolation. You know,  
we are one of the first societies to be constantly 
surrounded. 24/7 by other people, we live in vast  
cities. Most of the world's population now lives 
in a city. That wasn't the case until, you know,  
a minute ago. This is very new. When you don't 
live in a city, what do you live surrounded  
by? A very important psychological tool called 
nature. Trees, rivers, forests, grasses, insects,  
animals. What on earth has these things got to do 
with love? Well, what they do is they break that  
unitary system where you are worth what another 
human being defines you as being worth. When  
you're surrounded by nature, you're no longer just 
defined by other humans. You get to live in a more  
expansive, a more liberated world where your value 
is, you know, up to wider forces and that lends  
a lot of oxygen and a lot of freedom that we've 
lost as we've moved towards urban societies and  
of course, as we've gone online. Okay, here's 
another pet idea of mine. You know, religion  
disappeared as the guiding force in people's lives 
around 100 years ago when Nietzsche famously said,  
"God is dead." He announced the death of God. Now, 
you might say, "Hang on a minute, there are lots  
and lots of believers." There are. Of course there 
are. Many societies are still defined by religion.  
However, one can propose that in key ways we 
are no longer living in religious societies. We  
are living in modern, secular societies that are 
based around romantic love, status performance,  
material goods, a denial of nature, a cutting off 
from the natural world, and a cutting off from  
any sense of human agency being limited. We 
believe in human agency being able to determine  
everything. Along with that comes a denial, 
of course, of our own mortality. How would we  
start to do something about that? Well, I think we 
need to look to religions for answers. Religions  
have worked it out. I think that we need to steal 
from religions and to institute in secular culture  
many of the maneuvers of the safety valves and 
genuine insights that religions were brilliant at  
delivering. For example, we need to break bread 
together. All religions bring people, strangers  
together to break bread from different communities 
in order to lessen suspicion. We need to get back  
to a tradition of communal dining and of breaking 
the barriers that separates strangers from one  
another. We need also to talk with intelligence 
and intent about love and about our capacity  
and possibility of loving better than we do, of 
reminding ourselves that we need to make an effort  
around love. Buddhism does this, Christianity does 
this. All the main religions emphasize not just  
that love is important, but that love is hard, 
and we need a little bit of that. Religions also,  
almost all of them, have created spaces that are 
separate from the spaces of commerce, spaces that  
are beautiful, spaces that are peaceful, spaces 
that bring people together to create a different  
kind of fellowship, one more guided by a spirit 
of friendship and kindness and vulnerability.  
We need to replace our temples and churches with 
secular buildings that aren't just going to be  
shopping malls and that aren't just going to be 
car showrooms, but the places that will bring  
people together, the most beautiful community 
centers imaginable still need to be built, and  
I'd love to see them built. We think we're alone 
in being alone, and we think there is shame that  
attends to admitting how alone we are. The root 
out of loneliness is to share your loneliness,  
is to dare to believe that the things you are most 
ashamed of cannot be, structurally they cannot be,  
things that exist in your heart alone, that they 
have to be things that despite the evidence,  
the surface evidence of other people's 
cheerfulness, probably exist in other people.  
Other people are also lonely, are also sad, also 
feel lost, also feel that they've messed up,  
also have a hard time in their relationships. 
The beginning of friendship begins with the  
capacity to be vulnerable and to admit to 
loss and sadness. We think that friendship  
is a mutual club for cheerfulness, it's not. 
True friendship begins with tears, with the  
ability to admit to sadness. This is why men in 
many ways have a harder time than women, forming  
deep friendships because men, there's still in 
many societies a real taboo around male tears.  
Men cannot admit to being sad and weak without 
feeling that they have lost their masculinity.  
Extremely unfortunate as a root to friendship 
because it means that your friendship will need  
to be based on posturing and on the recounting of 
triumph and success. Whereas in fact, of course,  
true friendship begins with the revelation of 
vulnerability and fragility. As ever with a  
problem, self-awareness and mutual awareness is 
the way through. Once we can see the pattern,  
we can break the pattern. Once we can see that 
we're living in a prison defined by a material,  
a material status system that many of us don't 
value, that we are doing this not because we  
want to, but because it exists, we can start to 
find alternatives. I'm not talking about throwing  
in your job. I'm talking about evaluating 
yourself and other people beyond your job.  
I'm talking about getting back in touch with 
nature. I'm talking about getting in touch with  
vulnerability and sharing that vulnerability. 
These are all tools and mechanisms that we can  
put in motion to escape an otherwise really 
oppressive and genuinely loveless environment  
in which we're forced to live and can't breathe 
very easily in. You could define love as the quest  
to overcome isolation and understand someone else 
and find understanding by someone else. It is the  
most noble and the most complicated of goals. If 
anyone can reach the end of their life and say,  
"I have loved. I've loved properly. I've 
understood and been understood. I've helped  
and been helped." This is a life well-lived. We 
don't need to achieve that much that is splendid  
in the material world or in the world of insight 
in the humanities, insight in the sciences. What  
we really ultimately need to do to make our time 
worthwhile is to have built a bridge to another  
human and to have opened our heart and have seen 
theirs with respect and humility and generosity.  
That truly ultimately is the definition of 
a good life. Want to support the channel?  
Join the Big Think members community where 
you get access to videos early, ad free. free.