Today, today we'll talk a China and we'll talk a China and the world and the world between a battle battle. This time denou battle's hearting is not land, not is oil, not chip, and is the world and people's the world, people, and people. The world-to-the-country between-the-counter is a person-te-to-de-con, some time, and one-one with a friend talk to America, this way and the people, who had been a lot, and had been a lot about the American's but he not to repus- and it and he and he to the country and he and he's there's there and he I remember that he said a word, if you're just if you're too much people, basically are from the people are people are small is just just being but it's trying to find out of how much and To see, to listen It's It's It's Is it, this is Chinese, it's old It's true, it's a human-e Unus' One's one, he said, it's, and we're in the and he mean, and And then, Who Uy Run Ye, Toe hear And can't With he With quite With he's When I'm While I'm When I'm When I'm When I'm To say What I'm What I'm What do? Withs Several times After Now, Now, today The To be To be And I To be And he's To be To be Not a lot in in China high-dele fan-mets not not the American money and not the money and the money and the money and put in money doing it and one who people will be the will be the money and He can say on Whomongedon some Whomonon the power Hulowl a lot of chintz-eater the deep Pard to get on the and then eat and eat and who are young and say it and it should think it still in life still in the young that huge people that they're to they're that they're what I'm saying so The last time, I saw that said, so that the most U.S. It's not not quite, it's true eeachy to tru-eat. So, so it can't hear quite quite not quite is this history, but it's life, in China, a way, it's a way-to--re-be--be-to- There's people by this line of greek to education, of education, of course, but not quite to be education, but than the more than than the human-gian ch'est. In the shang-n-n--n-as- your knowledge, your know-sach--sach--of-a- people-a- people. Ten-year years, there's a few years ago, a one of my friends took to eat he gave on his his son. That year, his father, his son was Qingwa, Bia, and then he was two choices. One, is to Huawei work, and is to make a student, and I'm going to be a student, He, he said to ask me, the American's chis is not the American. Though he's not like small fendh but he certainly, he may not he may be self as public, and who see what, and then, you know, that when, Huawei in Germany, in the world, could say, it was in Rue, the whole, and he's a lot. He like, he seems, he's not, his family, his parents, and his own, he's no, he thinks to to why we get to work, you can make much, to get to the and he was to do the chie-sue, he asked, he would, he would, he would, and he, he, I said, I have no, but you can't quite simply look at you your band in the school in the family's in the family's their parents'n't, they're they're being here. He said, all went to America. I said, this is a what's a question. You know, where to look, know, to who learn, you know who's to see, you know how should you, you just know how to do it. He later went to California, and then graduate in here, in goy and work, and chagery, and yet, has been a lot of years, he can say is the Chinese-Americans'nights' into the same. Since 1990-Nand-day, China-Mort, China-West China-concincts, has been In recent 10 years, China's out of the Hong-Sher Gingitut-Hong-Di and choose to with the American to fight two countries into the real-scent state. Human-sac-dent has a wealth. But this is a different-tend to-d-d-d- battle, than in other areas are not- different-t-tac-s. It's not as the right strength or is the end of the The most of the The United is it's It's a strong-neux-noyneigh This is a sort of a It's a kind of It can say, it's a country, in the economic, human, government, over the Over the 100 years, the America, used the most-s-the-one- world-the-te-en-te- and-te-the-cern-e the last few years, the America has taken a lot from China, every region all over. In the current time in the country the country's financial development to fay mung-in. The market huge-to-kind. To get many people, people, give people people earn, and it's that's this is China in the huge- growth-e huge advantage. But this is, mity-bue-bue-bbed-sum-helfthum-sher-societ of that social-sem-tie-spectsure-concure-exam, especially with the American of the social system-based not a good-ean-cold-suit set-out. This just has a lot of our people-jerkers'clock in the American in the state, in the high-kourge companies, in which in-manned the research, and among the scientists. The issue people is, the other people is chieinging people's unique people's life, may not change the entire society isn't the right. Seen in the state is a a good country's un-hoceneing ability, just the system of the youde, and change-bent-buttahsum-howing-necuit. The most of the people all the world TV. It's real, all know a little Waller's world, also heard about a little quay-court the key. America in technology, world, the government has been many things, there are many things, but, to say, the success, but still as soon as soon no one, it, just to be able to be able to get, and the people, the We can simply look at least history. The people people know the American scientist, Einstein, he is a American, his name, his line, their line's being made, and there, and the American. He's a Wallen, also is a way a German, he was he was a member, he made the Let's look at today, the Chinese-N-South-Nonged king-we-eight-the-chrowne, Huang Renxun, he is a way from Taiwan's a mean. Now-in-we-wet-a-Nand-Dah is where-N-Didre is a-N-Diddle-Nand-a-N-Dade. Now-Gun-GuGos, CEO, Sandaar Pichai, is a way-of-I-N-N-Drew and the emin-M. Now, the American's first-foo, Tesla and Space X's the founder, Elon Musk, also for the people, he's from the foreign, he's from North Fei. Over the past year, the American's major technology and every one of defecive-sing to bring-and-a-eeming to leave-o-eiming to beckymymy and gain. From nuclear-it-dent-dent-frey-to-hont, from Internet, from Internet, to today everyone-do-de-can-companed-to‑lea-up-a-combecky-cimpend history-of-o people. Can be hallow-paw-chang to say, without these from all-the-cest-the-counter-of-a-ccuit, no-day-moy-cich, no-day American's true-one-focene-a-to-old of human-concure. Over the last 40 years, China's economic, in the product, in production, in other areas, the market, the trade, all in the small. This is you most good, the world, there's huge wealth, trade, and the market, in the world, is all the world, is the country, but, but, in a country, the different, the country, China, but still true-chings-in-sized, that is the human-same, need-sha, chen-sha-one-of-chon-schen-shae to China, to learn, work, and/-the-cue, and-and-as- from the world, and from the world to give-to- people, and it's little in the world-to-the- core-to-state in-the-l-one, the American truly-in- this is a different-st-the--and-and. In 2019 9th, the American President Trump had been public public public's high-of-te-go white-one-B work-chant-ecent-e from the cost of $1,000 dollars, the news came came out, you're not, rumin, just in a few years Trump had said to be to support, to be foreign to get people, people, people, you know, you can, you can, you're trying, and, Trump's been by, this is one's not quite. He if not is not so it's quite. In the video in the time of show in the, I've seen seen the time of Trump's, the student's policy. In fact, I was in the Trump's, the government is through the public's One of a one of the people's you think this is it is going this is it's because it's going to be going to get to what's what I'm saying I'm saying the the but the and the main could I was, you can't go to you can't you can't you first have a clear, you should be one by the one way, and then when you're being, if you today, you today, because you today, because you're going and you change, your plan, it's going You're going to He continues To change To turn You're going to Be he swat in By he swat to turn, Trump's Being like, turn to Week 1 is a word, and week 5 is another one way, and it's question The question not in Trump how change But it's in you need to you need to know what you're your long-year what your If you go to America, you and your kids' new goal, just because of a bit of a way-should-the-time-one-gaping-the-true change-been to move-eow, or quickly "Oh,.'" This is a new-time-time-the-state-instment-all-all-hear-hean-kind-of-all, and a new-stign-st, and then-fahingingling, and then-alling, it could be free-tuff. This is in the So, for you For the person Toe Toe Toe Toe Keeps Keeps Keeps Thinker Thinker Bigger True Than Chue Toe Toe Toe Toe Toe Toe Toe Back to H-1B Chens Fee pay To $10 $1 $1 $1 $1 $7 on $ Many people, people, say, would be anti-Nects of the people, this kind of not even is the not much people, people, including the people, so it's the sure is to take a 11B to into the work to so that Trump why, then it's kind to think that's making the country to make that the Trump, the simply is any other than any policy will have a certain way. To understand, we need to understand Trump's in fact that we're in fact that we're going to do. It's what? Today, it's a new year, the state, can't say, hand-fonged, and yet. And yet, especially the same-res-ke-kett-eat-eat-eat-of-eat-eat-a-few-ach-stern, to find a firm-hore-worked job, become difficult Why? Because in the past year, in the last year's, guay-cuh, Google, Amazon, Veroen, Mettah, all in the money-en-sets, all-one, and 1,000-1-1-1-1-1-1-4-1-4-4-4-4-9-1, by get-couped, be pushed to the job-eat-sach, and, "tonging to work. From 2020's from the United America's media would report many people many people people are difficult work and the job and then after the media and some media and know and the students the student and COVID and the current and One is the one-the-cure-beye students and found to work, the other the American the company but still through H-1B work to use using a lot of people, which is India-e technology law-gues land-gues large- most. this in caused a many people people because should so the students people and I'm people in the people people who in the people there are one one is the through people people and the people and the the people Media, media report, form, would get yet impact the government's the government, yeas, or through law, or through to the government and the will directly impact the policy to do it. This year, the American student, this point, it's not through media report and and the people, and some people, American university and the student and work man, and the company, and still through h. Now, we're we're going together and we're trying to and the and his direct dogg, As a As a man of a Trump is a vote is the political authority. Though this is his his second his one, the he is not the public and his fact does it can continue the the policy should to be due to the end during the election and can't be able to that If the American a lot of students, and the government was not a lot of sure it, it's not really to make sure to make sure the next year. When people, is to be able to get many-the-tecern logic, is to understand Trump's the same H-1B policy of the top-logy, and the policy, He will to be the political impact, to maintain to support, to be sure, to hold the people, be sure the state the student job and give you know, put each one the money, pay-on- pay-to-the- money, he used this simple and sub-bought- way, like the those people, the people, and their families, to be a certain all the person-and- the time, I'm, I'm at the job--wee, This can say is he's the same policy, is the most serious, the reason. This kind of the same thing, it's not many people take care. So this is the American technology's the end of the end of the world, the country, go and so to the government, so that this kind of will make the people, the country In reality, always than on the fact that more. This kind of this time this country and the major can't be more because their their money, can't take on the cashed pay on this but for that's the those real key tech techto and say impact weheal to and you think Google, I'm will be the the biggian would be a $0. $1. This to them to say but is no-nove-e-mow. And, and how-quant, these big companies world-of-the-con-ta in many countries have been in many countries, they have a strong-tard and full-to-sue, their tools, their tools their tools to have enough to give-the-cent- to get-ed-a-all-a-cuit. The American's foreign law-go-lawful-sign system is a very difficult-of-sacred KATH-B is one-the-of-kind is one-the-one- one-est, to the some-te-to-the- foreign-to-your- other, other more-goy-to- people, like, being made-tac-en-ed--sac-and- or, and for for across-ccou-n--combed--the-co-co-the-us- people-in-you-all-e-eeach-all-be-old-s and-eeeach-eus-all-old-on-each-eux-eeeeach-ssonson These chien-themes, the main always for those who are you only people who don't give-be to special-te-nong-eaned people are open these years. These years, in the United States already used these new ones, Trump's, this hand, the way that is to close the way-worked the law-comed the door, but it's to, it's, it's, to the new-of-the-sus- labor-of-the-cue law-cuh-cum to-cue-the-cue Now, we can see what we can see how through the new-gen-tonged in the key-gen-out-the-concure on the key-eas-exam. The most people are at at least-stice-seyser can what is what? With other simple, simple-pawed-to-just-all-them-est, in the short-quest, it would be able to do you dogeal. Another, we need to understand a lot of Deciding, world-year-en-sexuals, the most soon is the job of the same. Chian-it-send-just-one-mail and real seem-man-the-mail-to-in-money-all to come-seh-the-court. White-Gucused law-con, of course, and yet-one-bed to buy-one-Bedchant-in-law to work. The most important is because there is the world's the whole-co-stress-the-co-to-know-to-coct-offic-oct-oct-eckway, Other countries, like Canada, Australia, England, and Europe, and the other countries, all say, have to draw Trump this side, to find out the future, and then it's not the American patent and foreign business. But, can't from on on the world in the world, in the can say, it's very far one, a big-in-one-a-i-common-sys. His dreamt is at Google, at Open AI, work, and not to a new-of-a-I-I-court, or not to a key in a new-siened country, even he, because H-1B, work-scent-of-ecent-of-kind-old also, it's-he-est-he-cuit, that it's-he-he-te, a "E., a t'-e, Not a lot of other foreign engineers before is this is doing they they're not able to get to in other other other working waiting and then time waiting and then So we need to keep its decision It's the use use of work, is the market and it's the can't make the people can't get back financial and the just this is the market and if America is still is the new world and it and the creativity to will become the can't get not and will From work, this根 point out of we can say Trump's this time short-year-old contract, to what's long to what to what, to do you get to the American university of the job and depending on the American to the work to the work and the work. If America, the students' job market short-should this this time will be able is going to be the countering, if we're being the financial, the university business, the school end upro- change, this time, the same will be able to change the In here, I want to give you a.1B work job is that you're not a specials of people are not a personal technical law enforcement pension. Some people are people who are people who people and American people and people and people not correct. Actually, H-1B's, it's, but not quite high, but the company's and can't sign. In the U.S.L.C. Law & Worker's short of short, it, it's true, it actually helped us to put a lot of job market. But now—it just, like we're here—the, the, of our community market market. But now, the whole—theircuit market, not out Many tech techie all are in 10,000,000 and in the time in this job in a new year in the Trump's put in this kind of is a huge change of Trump, after this time, it's a thing, not a not in it, Today, early Some people said that's not a key change to get a people trying people to high-and-be tax when he made public, the media just good media, so is you to do more to get people and people the country Seign other people's Of course, can say always correct. But see see look at it It's quite We can't get. We can do a simple Toeep. Trump's H-1B strategy is to do the American labor-coms and companies and state-eux- state-e these key-e and-each--of-the-sher- issues and put-to-the- And so, but not even this, the policy behind, and there's kind of sub-bought-it, it can't cause of, at least, it's not a very far as, it's a very fact-of-stand-winds, it has to get-eget. So, China, so it's the down-co-cuit system. Now,, China, is to do you know, is to do you, is it? Is it to get-go-year question? Let us This year, the year's government published the new year shows, 16-year to 24-year rate rate is 18. 18. 9, created the Chinese year's high, in in the world in all leading and than than the more more than This is not only also in-exual of the college students. This is, in the school's of student people's 1,22,000 people. "Tewan people. Media, and information all is a very strict, but even in the this is in a condition down, there are there are a student students, being huge-due- and the work- hard-of-a- hard-n- work-n't- people, The media on the media more is a high-ahed many people people get to get-e job and not-e work to work just can't take work or back and because because because because the government not public not public not and the and Out yet from all the media and the media peoply to think to put up, there are sure 1,000-1-7-1-6th-1-year-sons, including a lot of shoo-li-haw, school-duty-sword-drens, and find-to-the-court-the-court, and to-o-o-yard-sich. In our people can think in a In fact, in a state in a state, China, China, China, to be a country, which is from foreign country, can't change, and can't change-a- debt. This is not. "Pen 1,000-1-1-Gee to "'Decent people who are "'tall not enough fun, "'he's quite at this time, "'like the world-weigh-law-com, "'to-do-year-scivil job-sage. "'Ching the world-law-go-law-court "'to-work-law-court-old student-a-old. This was been like a hot k-chion Which is a thing is a question, to get-as-womened of a good-all-called It's a big-de-state, a way of the way to-the-one, to be a young-the-costs, its own-the-concern. It's the biggest problem is that totally totally t'n't totally totally from the world's society, especially is the trade trade market. This is this is not-sacred just to be brought to the people young people in the network on on the internet to be quite. This is the point. So, to the end of the government in the policy, in the, in the last year-dings-dinged the big-of-the-counter, but is America. He will do-bele-M-Guble-M-Gu, to do-the-M-Kocting-Gent-stap, but he no-sac-cure in-stress in-stress-to-the-cest in-the-cest in-cest, Dongs is to depot see-shy, the result is hongedan. This is a hosven-fying the country and the in the world in the in-the-true in a great-train this is a different-tron-send from the 20-year of course of how much money, to how much take-tall-the--tall-tall- to the that's-e- that in-the-the--out-shue--cue-cue--cue-re-be- In the go-shund, in the years' times, the time, and the time, all the times, is the times of the day, in the country, the world, the year, and it, the way, and so, to be, to be big, to be, people, the other people, quite, is the In fact, in the world-gen-in-time in the list, this is a big question, but is a long-song-tanked in-of-tian-hap. In here, I want to use in Singapore, former-Zong-lii-Lie, the story. In some years, I was in reading, he was in the world, and d'clock, he's very very much very much. And I'm very In his analysis, in the in the future, in the future, can be able a big big of big energy the country the world see-roo-to-e his-to-the- but in the technology in the in the hundred years no, no, Liy Gaw is a people He is an Wuthrushed She's She's To turn He looks She's The power but I'm Not quite Not quite not by technology To give Usses It's She's She's There Two Two Too much Unique Ender Two is people Is it And people who is Just the first point to get, Li Gawang-Yo said, America is from the world's 16-eer-one in-est-eight and the end-eat and the end-do-s is from their 13-e people-of- people-of- he said this word the word is the world-the-one. Li Guan Yao said this word very strong form. It's very very croup. America is from the world world's one-of-e including from the people's in the people's and China and just from people from from from from from from from and the people and the top people people and not not the the people and the and the right and the In the United These two-one-mod-moder-moder Which-Gal, which is high, and that's the don't know, with time And so can make sure, can make to make sure, and you know and have the top-eget- wealth and is the world on the world's the most very low-quets the two-sac- resources. In China, these two chiquet, people have been to vote, to choose, a good country, each country, the country, and in fact, it's, to do it, so, you're playing a way of a way like, there's a way like a very simple way is a question, just can, the world's world's good people, and who show out and where to come to Li Gwang-Hiazs, once again years ago many years a new years and a question and when China in in the of the what I was I was I said I said I was like like it and I'm like it and it's They're in here un-gia, loo-hue, and then-a-la-hue, and, put their way-lai-lae, to get the world to the way-lain, and the way-and-a- And, why-goy-to-know- people, and people, and quite, and many, it's a lot-the-a-ching, even pelt-chang, and a-chae, that's a kind of a-o-chang, that's a new-o-kind, "gay give the money,' the get-kind, to-give-sue, and get-shunds, and all right, there are different other, but that's not much, and there are no more, 'Lews 'LyQuah when to the question, he felt was not, in this one-bbinged, "Feynesee culture and society'"""""" "Chicke"n't, and then the years' "Lieghorned,"' "Lie,"' "Leghaw,"' "Eye"chior""""" "...chew" "...ourless"" "...chew" "...ch "...cherns," "...chews" "...ch "...ch "...ch.'" "'Their," "...ch "...that," "egrimps" Li Guan Yau talked to in the world-in-sacinging in the second is language. American people use English, that is the world-tong-yonged. And the world, in other countries, other countries, many people say people say Chinese, use Chinese, and there are many many people who are not quite people. Li Gawang-Yel is from a very-station-st and very-comelyed to look-dye-to to look at the language. He has more in the German and and is this two words in the different in terms of the language in the in the language in modernization. He took a lot of bringing in fact using, can't can give you can't clear, to give us, and the basic, logical, and language and and in this way can't make all the can't do Many with the Chinese and English all have written people who have been or more or less all will have a tonne. With the language to clean and to clear, to show, a pretty difficult we're quite we often we always need to make some making some and use some and these are these are the I'm not a language-jerkian, but I personally in the rhetoric and law-life-forming of experience, use Chinese to put-of-tile, logic, is true than with English-you-kinded-cuitous-conn't more. From this point to look at least, I think, I think, Lee-Gaw-Deghaw's view, of its'moo-tarmes. This is a kind of, a natural, of personal, of a personal, suhs of the relationship. The Chinese is my mother's It's It has been It's in I'm in I've got a I'm in my way in my non-of-the-all- It's always but it's But it's not it can make I think I'm in some certain areas In particular like in in the science in the logic-sue and in logic-siv- There's there's not-e-of- The question in the language in many-sion And in the The language of the type of, the culture of the social, and all the all of control man to the key-one these three-en-sense of the instance that's the can't even to see in the people, a great one a great-a-the-the-she- - general-the-team people's the the next-and-the-client and they're This is always is the American-enstein in the most basic-the-cent-so. We're going to we're going to today's point. To make sure, Trump's for the way of the new-year market, out of the challenge, and it's very fact, and it's foreign- law-gues, you know- to get- the work the job-l--gues- and- especially the country--the-cue-eat- school--be-each-sion. At the time, the country also also, it's also about a great-of-exual-established. It's not to be able to work, but it's going to be quite-than-y-groomed of the people's, this one, the country's simple, too-bo- can-he-en-as- in the process in in a issue, we're doing a lot- times, and the government, and it's just-cern- and it's-s-canned, So, he's not because he's the end uprored the state, but he's in the media problem. He's looking at the end up there's is a make-the-the-the-court, is to make sure to make sure a way-to-the-court to make sure he's-cine-the-cuit, is because he's at by the end-like-the-of-year-old-scian shrew-share-shund. He gave those "Beat-beye-be-he-year-sus-de-year-old young-kind-man-chernsher-shan. "You''-sahsard." Today's words said all right. Next time, Thank you.