After doing a British Culture Shock video last time,
The audience responded enthusiastically
Today's episode will introduce to you
Taiwan's English textbooks can not learn
English usage I only knew after coming to the UK
First of all, hello in daily conversation
The common method of handing in English textbooks in Taiwan is how are you?
how's it going?
Of course there is nothing wrong with these statements
But what I hear more often in the UK is
hello, you alright?
americans will sound weird
Because Alright in American English means a good mood
If you ask someone you alright?
Seems like it's because other people don't seem to be in a good mood
but in the UK
you alright means to say hello to you how are you
We got Spider-Man to demonstrate
I told them when I was watching the movie
that I was watching and I was like
You do know i'm speaking like with an English accent there
They said: True or false, is that a British accent?
and they're like really? that's an English accent?
I say yes
And i'm like yes,
I said hello with a British accent How are you?
I said hello mate you're right
Taiwan's English textbooks teach how to
how are you
Say how have you been (how have you been?)
Or what have you been doing (what have you been doing recently?)
But what I hear more often in the UK is
what have you been up to? (What have you been up to?)
Or more succinctly up too much (what have you done recently?)
These mean to ask what you have been doing lately
How is it going
What have you been doing recently?
How would you respond if someone greeted you?
Generally we will say i'm good, i'm fine, how about you
But if the British have a good day today
Instead they don't say i'm good
Instead, it will say not bad
not bad here means very good
'Cause the british presuppose that every day can suck like shit
like the weather in england
So as long as it's not too bad it's good
Standard English greeting: How are you?
the standard greeting in Britain how are you?
Not
too bad
That's pretty much the case in the UK.
that's as good as it gets in old Blighty, not too bad.
Everything sucks
things are clearly bad.
But it's not quite as bad as we thought it was
but they're not quite as bad as we thought they're gonna be.
But Americans live in a super positive culture
So if Americans say not bad
It's just that today is really not very good
Also in the UK we don't say friends
but mates
Mate means spouse in American English
but in british english mate usually means friend
so you have a drink with a friend
you can say grab a drink with my mate
grab a drink with my mate
There are many words of its own for drinking in the UK.
like a glass of wine we say a pint of beer
instead of a glass of beer
a pint means a cup
well?
what's that?
Dude, this is <font color=#FFE900FF>a pint</font>
this... my friend, is <font color=#FFE900FF>a pint</font>
Got wine by the glass?
it comes in pints?
I want a cup
i'm getting one.
go for a drink after get off work
we'll say a cheeky pint
cheeky means less formal and casual
It's also a very common word in the UK.
Because pubs are a very important part of British culture
The source of the word Pub is actually public house (public housing)
Because during the industrial revolution in the 19th century
A large number of farmers were driven to work in cities
A large working-class population emerged
Then go home after get off work and have nothing to do
Why not build a public house
Let everyone drink and socialize inside
This public house evolved into today's pub
Like I went to Brighton, a seaport city in the south of England last month
The local laborers will sing the song of the boatman in the bar
So the British pub can be said to be an important place to shape the consciousness of the working class
Next, let's introduce some phrases I often hear in the UK
Usually we say I don't know
we'll say i don't know
But here I often hear another saying that
not that I am aware of
It's just that I didn't know about it
i don't know about this
mean i don't know
Has any philosopher ever had an idea so big that his head popped?
Did a philosopher ever think of an idea so big it split the head open?
I don't know (you are supporting the third primary school)
<font color=#FFE900FF>not that i'm aware of.</font>
and when talking to each other
Sometimes we have to make sure the other person understands
we won't say do you understand
because it sounds a little offensive
It's an up-down tone
to sound more polite
Everyone will say does that make sense?
does that make sense?
Does that make sense?
That is, to transfer the subject from you to the matter
It makes it look like you're not targeting him as a person.
like he's so stupid he can't understand
If you are an acquaintance, of course you can directly say
Do you know what i mean
Do you know what I'm talking about
do you understand me
Then if you want to tell the other person
please wait a moment
please bear with me
Because I have some things to deal with here
When we usually think in Chinese, we think it is
please be patient.
please wait a second. (please wait a while)
But this kind of imperative sentence will feel like ordering the other party
just wait, please wait a little longer
more polite way of saying
The same is to transfer the subject from the other party to oneself
So you can say please bear with me
like i'm studying in england
Often when the projector goes wrong
British professors would say
We
are having some technical problem.
Please bear
with me please bear with me.
please forgive me please wait for me
please bear with me a little longer
Oh I'll text back <font color=#FFE900FF>Please wait</font>
oh hang on. <font color=#FFE900FF>bear with</font>.
please wait
bear with
please wait
bear with
I'm
back
another one is
When giving advice or asking for advice
To think in Chinese we usually say
should you... or should i...
But if you translate it directly into English, you should
or should i
Feeling too commanded
here in the UK
I've never heard anyone use the word should when suggesting something to someone else
A more polite way of speaking would be would it be better if...
would it be better if
Then tell me which suggestion you think is better.
Then this concept is also to transfer the subject to this matter
Wouldn't it be better to just do this?
So I'm not advising you on what you should do
but to offer you a suggestion
Then tell you this thing is also good
would it be better if you do this
Do you have colleagues? Why would anyone want to be your colleague?
a colleague? how do you get a colleague?
Did he follow you home?
did he follow you home?
<font color=#FFE900FF>Or should I</font> wait beside me?
<font color=#FFDE00FF>Would it be better if </font>i just waited...
This last one is what I hear a lot in England too.
when we were chatting
When it comes to the end when we want to sum up
we'll say anyway
The conclusion is that...
In English we can say anyway...then talk about the conclusion
either in the end or eventually
But in fact, there is a more reasonable way to say that
at the end of the day
at the end of the day
That is, after all the previous things have been said
Then you have to conclude and say okay anyway
At this time you can say at the end of the day
Don't you think your friend is annoying? Usually
doesn't it bother you? no, most of it wouldn't.
and then they would do
some stuff that's a bit over the line
That would of course annoy me
and that would bother me obviously.
but
but...
<font color=#FFD700FF>No matter what</font> they are my friends of course you may not think so
they're my friends <font color=#FFD700FF>at the end of the day</font>. it's different for you.
Finally, I will teach you three
Words unique to British English
The first one is banter (dry talk)
Banter means Chong Kang and ridicule
The British way of socializing is basically banter
To them
This is a chance to show you have a good sense of humor
listen i'm like
a king of banter.
The tone is very arrogant
bold statement what i'll tell you...
Do you like talking?
Do you like banter?
Of course I love dry talk
yeh I love banter.
Dry talk is great, right?
It's sick, innit?
well the second word is banger
what is banger
Once I played Taiwanese aboriginal music to my European friends
My friend said this one is a banger
A very dick song, a very powerful song is called banger
The last word is skint
Skint is also often heard in the UK
Skint means eating dirt
So you are at the end of the month
When your friend has no money to go out to dinner with you
They'll say i'm a bit skint
I have eaten dirt
I can't go out with you
If you really want to understand the usage of British English more clearly
The best way, of course, is to have a conversation with a native speaker
But the biggest difficulty for Taiwanese to learn English is that there are no native speakers
no English-speaking environment
Not everyone has the opportunity to study abroad
So if you want to be in Taiwan
If you can chat with native English speakers at the same time
Then try Cambly online English education platform
Cambly has more than 5,000 professional English tutors
From USA, UK, Canada, Australia
There are tutors from all over the world online 24 hours a day
Allows you to speak English with native speakers anytime, anywhere
Enter Super Y's fan referral code now
You can directly get 20 minutes of free lessons
Exclusive discounts for long-term subscriptions
Let's experience it now
Live chat with cambly's English language teachers
Go to Cambly's home page
Then you can start browsing the tutors
This will show which tutors are currently online
let's find a british one
Connor
Is this also in German?
let's try this
start class
After entering, you can choose the duration of the class
Then you can also choose to correct the method
You want him to correct you on the spot
or after each class
Hi
hello buddy
hello mate
How are you?
How are you?
Very good
i'm good.
The hairstyle is very nice
nice haircut.
Your glasses are also nice
nice glasses.
So you have been teaching English for many years right?
So you have been teaching English for many years right?
Yes
.
What is the most common mistake made by people learning English?
What's like the most common mistake people usually make?
i've found that the most common mistake
i've found that the most common mistake
Especially those who just learn English
especially with very beginner learners
Is they try
to overcomplicate things.
So when you're answering
so sometimes when you're giving an answer,
especially when you
're just learning the language,
The best
thing is just almost keep it simple
Just focus on the question
and focus on the question.
Some people are too eager to show how much English they can
sometimes some people are a little bit too eager to show
How much English they know by adding some different words .
And the more words you add,
the more complicated the grammar will get
The more likely your sentence will be wrong
and the more lost you get in your own sentence.
That's right
yeah fair enough. exactly.
This is quite common
.
So it is more important to keep things simple
so keeping things simple can be very important
like i love long sentences
like i love long sentences.
my friends
when they are doing proofreading for me,
They would say
this sentence is too long.
You better cut
it into four different sentences.
I was taught that way too
so i was the same and what i was taught
I learned the PEE method
i was taught the PEE method.
Means Point, Evidence
, Explain
So you use this method
so you have this kind of point evidence explain
Just keep your sentence a lot easier
and it keeps your sentence a lot easier.
Simple and clear, cut to the point
yeah, nice and shorts, and straight to the points.
I like point explanations and keeping things simple.
I'm a big fan of the bullet point explanations. keeps things simple.
I found that no matter what language people make common mistakes when learning English,
common mistakes across all languages ​​actually that I've noticed.
One example would be using the wrong tense .
When talking about daily routines
or jobs for example,
A common mistake is to use the present continuous instead of the present perfect.
A common mistake is to use the present continuous instead of the present perfect.
The correct way to say it is that my job is an engineer
so instead of saying i work as an engineer,
But someone
might say i'm working as an engineer.
That's a really common mistake
across the board.
Just use the wrong tense
so using the wrong tense.
I think this is quite difficult for Mandarin speakers
i this this is quite difficult for Mandarin speakers
Because I think Chinese is a tenseless language
because i would say Mandarin is a timeless language.
There's no tense
in Mandarin.
If we want to be very specific about the temporality,
if we want to be very specific about the temporality,
We will just add today tomorrow or
at what time in the sentence.
So we don't have to change the verb in Chinese
so we don't have to change the verb.
yeah yeah yeah
You just add
an extra thing to the end of the sentence.
So learning the concept of tense will be a bit difficult for Chinese speakers
so that would be kinda difficult for Mandarin speakers to learn the concept of tense.
That's right
absolutely.
I think grammar is very important
i think grammar is very important.
But I also feel that students put too much emphasis on grammar
but i also think that there is too much focus on grammar by students.
It makes them afraid to speak
it almost makes them too timid to speak,
Because they're worried about saying it in the wrong way
because they're worried about saying it in the wrong way.
It's better to be able to speak, learn and have a good experience. It's better to be able to speak, learn and feel that learning English is a good thing .
So you can really learn how to communicate in English
so that you can really learn to communicate.
it's interesting
ah it's interesting you say that
Because I was just talking to another British tutor
because I was just talking to another British tutor
He told me the same thing
and he told me exactly the same thing you just said.
So what do you think about learning pronunciation?
And also, how about the pronunciation?
I think about this a lot
so i've thought about this a lot.
because i'm from the Northwestern United States ,
I pronounce things differently than people in Boston
and i pronounce things differently than, for example, Boston.
The east side and west
side are so different.
Very different
it's very different.
So I would say just try to pronounce things correctly
so i would say, for example, just try to pronounce things the best you can.
i really believe it's going to
be impossible or almost
It is nearly impossible
for anyone to have a complete native accent.
unless you
want to be a method actor
Completely change your personality
and where you're from.
I speak English
i speak English,
But I bring my accent
and my past with me.
yeah
It's like
a part of your cultural identity.
It's very funny
because in Taiwan
People would be very obsessed with the idea of ​​speaking a standard British accent .
yeah
But this
idea just simply doesn't exist in Britain.
yeah
You live in London so you also know
and as you know you know you live in London.
Even in London alone there are many different accents
you know.
There's not one single accent
that people speak here.
You can travel
like 30 minutes in England alone,
You'll find very different accents
and you'll experience a drastically different accent.
Even from Manchester to Liverpool
for example,
That's a pretty pretty unique difference in accents there .
here is a thing. so our government
,
The Taiwan government is pushing a policy called
Taiwan's government is pushing for a new policy called
2030 bilingual nation
bilingual nation 2030.
That is to say
which means,
Taiwan wants to make itself a bilingual nation by 2030
which means Taiwan wants to make itself like a bilingual nation by 2030.
So we only got seven years left,
so we only got seven years left,
But we
don't even have any English-speaking environment in Taiwan.
There are a lot of things that can change
that means a lot can change though.
Because I know they're doing
the same thing in Saudi Arabia.
true or false
really?
Lots of people
are focusing on that.
I think it's achievable
so i think it's achievable.
I
don't 100% know the background of it,
But the 2030 bilingual Taiwan policy you talked about is very interesting
but that's interesting that you told me that you have that 2030
Because Saudi Arabia also wants to achieve it in 2030
because the vision 2030's the same in Saudi Arabia.
How did they do
that?
In the workplace
it's now very important if you're getting a job
It is very important to be able to speak English
that you can speak English as well.
Knowing English is a job requirement
that's been a requirement.
i think in schools
Lots of stuff are now taught
in English.
Interesting
.
Are they recruiting foreign teachers to their country?
Are they hiring many foreigners, like foreign English teachers to their country?
I guess so but I'm not sure
i assume so. but i don't really know.
So I don't know much either
so i can't really say much on it.
I
do know teachers that have gone out to the Middle East to go teach English.
But the problem in Taiwan is
but the problem is that in Taiwan,
English teachers don't teach you how to use in a specific context. English
teachers don't teach you how to use in a specific context.
so
for example,
if i want to disagree with someone
,
The teacher will teach you to use the word "disagree".
people would just say okay you can use this word disagree,
Or say "I don't agree with what you said"
or i don't agree with you.
But in real life if you talk to someone
who you just met in this way,
It's kinda rude
.
I wonder how to express objection in English
I wonder how would you say to someone who you want to disagree with
<font color=#FFD900FF>"I don't think so"</font> You can also say that
<font color=#FFD900FF>i don't see it that way</font>, works as well
I don't see it from your angle
so i don't really see it from that angle.
i see it from a different point of view .
So you're looking from this side, but I'm from the other side
so one person seeing it from here i'm seeing it this way.
So it's more
like you're just adding another point.
if someone's got
the opinion as well,
You can also say, I agree,
you can say well i agree with this,
But at the same time I also think...
but i also believe this...
A confrontation between two people doesn't necessarily mean that I completely disagree with what you said.
not every confrontation is i completely disagree with everything you're saying.
i agree with part of what you're saying
,
But there is another part of me that thinks differently
but this bit i feel a little bit differently.
For example, we might say:
For example, we might say
<font color=#FFE700FF>"Sorry, I don't think so"</font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>i'm sorry. i don't think that's quite right,</font>
But what I'm thinking is I totally disagree, you idiot
wehn really i mean i completely disagree with you and you're an idiot.
Or even less targeted
to make it even less personal,
Don't say it: sorry I think you're quite right
instead of saying i'm sorry, but i don't think you're quite right
Change it to say: <font color=#FFD300FF>I don’t think “that” is quite right.</font>
I would say:<font color=#FFD300FF> i don’t think “that” is quite right.</font >
This shifts the burden from that person to the thing
and it takes the sort of responsibility away from the other person.
it's not as accusational
. you see what i mean?
Speaking
of the difference between American English and British English.
When I first arrived in the UK everyone would say to me:
when i first was there, everyone would say
Are you OK?
how are you? are you alright?
<font color=#FFD500FF>How are you? </font>
<font color=#FFD500FF>Are you alright?</font>
so i freaked out
and so i had a little panic
Because in American English that way of speaking seems to be someone bleeding
because are you alright in American English is like your bleeding,
Should be called
the ambulance.
This is also
the example i used in my video.
In America if you say are you alright,
in America if you say are you alright,
Sounds like you are sick or something
it will be like you are sick or something.
How to seduce people in English?
What would you say if you want to flirt with someone?
Everyone knows that the Brits are
quite known for using <font color=#FFE200FF>innuendo</font> quite a lot.
for example?
for example?
If you
're flirting with someone, and you're a boy.
You can ask that person to feel a bit of your clothing,
you can ask that person to feel a bit of your clothing,
and then they would touch it,
and then they would touch it,
Then you ask them if they like it
and then you ask them if you like that?
Like the feel of that fiber?
you like that kind of fabric?
And they say
yeah it's nice. and then you would say:
That's <font color=#FFE400FF>boyfriend material</font>
that's <font color=#FFEF00FF>boyfriend material</font>.
Boyfriend
material.
That
's a good one.
You can have that one for free
, SuperY.
What do you think is the key to learning a language well?
what do you think is the key to learn a new language?
The key is of course to go to the country of that language.
The key if possible is obviously spend some time in the country.
I have another trick to learn
and i have this one trick,
which is try and
describe stuff that you can see.
for
example like try and describe everything about this pen
Don't just say it's a white pen.
Don't just say it's a white pen.
To be more specific, say this is a white <font color=#FFD600FF>ballpoint pen</font>
be more specific and say it's a white <font color=#FFEC00FF>ballpoint pen</font>.
Explain how to use this pen
explain how it works.
Push
the end of this pen and the tip of the pen comes out.
Just use English to describe what you see
and you just start describing these things in English
You'll find that there are things
that you can't describe.
What do you call that thing in English
what do you say that in English. i don't know.
Something that bounces?
a bouncer?
<font color=#FFF000FF>彈簧</font>
<font color=#FFF000FF>spring</font>
This is called <font color=#FFF000FF>spring</font>
so this is called the<font color=#FFEA00FF> spring.</font>
You need to keep describing these little things
so you just have to try and find all these little things
You will know which English words you don't know
to find out what you don't know.
you will encounter something
you couldn't describe
And that's the moment you would learn
something new.
This method is called?
and what's this method called?
Describe something
describing stuff.
I thought there would be a more academic title
i thought there would be a more academic ...
oh no it's just describing.
oh no it's just describing.
I think the key to learning English is
i think the key to learning English is
Cut into learning from several different angles
attacking the learning from multiple different angles.
You know not only speaking to tutors on cambly
but also reading
in your spare time
Watching things on YouTube or
Netflix or a streaming platform.
Watching videos in a productive way with a learning effect
.
If your English is not good enough
so if your level is not there yet,
You can watch the movie with Chinese subtitles
then watching with subtitles either in your native language.
Change to English subtitles
and then when you get a little bit better in English.
And then
when you get better still you can turn the subtitles off.
It's a little bit challenging
for especially Mandarin speakers
Because everyone relies on subtitles
because you know people are just so reliant on subtitles.
I'm Youtuber,
because I'm Youtuber right.
I always need to add subtitle on all of my YouTube videos
so i always need to add subtitle on all of my YouTube videos
My British friend told me that your audience can understand Chinese
and my friend told me your audience can understand Mandarin.
Why do you still need to add Chinese subtitle
?
I really don't know how to answer him
i don't know.
We just need subtitles
because we are just so dependent on subtitle.
very interesting
interesting.
I think the key to learn English well is to learn to communicate.
I would say definitely communication is a key.
To be able to speak English
so more ability to speak.
Most of my students
from Asia have been taught grammar very well.
but their biggest concern was
that
They had little chance to speak English
they never were given the opportunity to speak.
So I would suggest learning to communicate first
so that would be my first thing that i would suggest.
So we need to change the teaching environment
okay so we need to change the teaching environment
to encourage the students to speak more,
to encourage the students to speak more,
Instead of just taking
more exams.
right yeah
yeah
ok
all right.
good night
have a good evening.
You too, bye bye
you too, have a good day. cheers.
okay
Nice to meet you and have a great chat
it's really nice to meet you and very nice to talk to you
If you want to learn some new English vocabulary, remember
and if you want to learn some new English vocabulary, remember
Describe things.
describe stuff.
Take care super crooked, nice to meet you
take care super Y. nice to meet you.
Finished chatting with the three Cambly foreign teachers
Actually, I think I learned a lot
It turns out that Taiwan is not the only one who is trying to become a bilingual country by 2030
Saudi Arabia is now working on this plan
Then finally there is the vastness of the United States
There are all kinds of accents
Taiwanese are afraid to speak when learning English
I'm just afraid that my accent is not standard or pure
This concept itself is not healthy
You don't need to because your accent seems to have a Taiwanese accent or an Asian accent
dare not speak English
This is actually when foreigners are chatting
I don't care about things that much
That's all I want to share with you today
English usage, phrases and words that I only knew after I came to the UK
Phrases and words in English that I only know
If you want to see more videos of Ah Wai English
You are welcome to leave a message below on the topic you want to hear
Then we'll see you in the next episode