 Today, I want to touch briefly on a recent AI
 paper, and then I'm going to use it as a springboard
 to go on a rant about the intersection of
 technology and current events.
 Fair warning, I'm going to be spending some
 time putting the current American societal
 situation in some historical and technological
 context.
 And if you're looking for a video that won't
 challenge your existing beliefs, you should
 move on.
 I don't care which side of the political divide
 your online information bubble is sitting in,
 that bubble is almost certainly floating in a
 sea of bovine excrement, and this video is
 going to offend you.
 Now, if that sounds like I'm setting up an ad
 read for some app that talks about improving
 your "news diet", I'm not, because apps like that
 won't really help.
 If you really want to understand what's going
 on now, you need to - horror of horrors - read a book.
 Pretty sure I'm going to lose some subscribers
 over this one. But what the F----
 This is the Internet of Bugs. My name is Carl.
 I've been the software professional since the
 1980s, and I'm trying to make the Internet a
 less buggy and all around safer place.
 This is from a recent paper from Chatbot Skeptic,
 Gary Marcus, who I often agree with, called,
 quote, "AI bot swarms threaten to undermine
 democracy."
 And while this paper does have citations to
 some really interesting research that I'm going
 to be pouring over for some time, and while
 this paper also is correct that AI is a very
 powerful tool to manipulate people, my
 overwhelming reaction upon seeing this paper
 was, "Where the F#@$%$# have you all been?"
 "Threaten to undermine democracy?" Are you
 kidding me? Have you been living under a rock?
 America's democracy has been undermined for a
 long, long time.
 Honest people can argue about precisely when it
 started, but I don't think it's possible or
 necessary to pick an exact point in time.
 Something like a third of Americans think that
 the 2020 presidential election was illegitimate.
 72% think January 6 was an attack on democracy.
 Only 6% of Americans believe that the Justice
 Department is following the law with respect to
 the releasing of the files related to a now-deceased
 convicted human trafficker, and if you add up
 the Americans believing the Supreme Court was
 wrong when it legalized abortions, and the
 Americans believing the Supreme Court was wrong
 when it made them illegal again, you get a fair
 approximation of everybody.
 I'd argue that between all of those and a bunch
 of other controversial issues that the vast
 majority of Americans believe that democracy
 has failed in at least some cases.
 And I'm absolutely one of those people. For
 example, I believe that law enforcement
 officers should never be allowed to hide their
 identities.
 I believe that filming the police is and should
 always be legal, and that any law enforcement
 officer who shoots and kills a person that is
 not directly threatening immediate harm to
 themselves or other persons is guilty of a
 crime and should be prosecuted.
 I think that what the Republicans are currently
 doing with ICE is absolutely illegal and should
 be stopped, and that what the Democrats are
 doing is encouraging it because they think it's
 their best chance to win the next election.
 And that said, if you think this is
 unprecedented, the way most of anti-MAGA
 Internet bubbles keep saying, you haven't been
 paying attention.
 But I'll come back to that. First, though, I
 want to talk about a more foundational lie that
 Americans, like me, were taught in school from
 a young age, the lie that the American
 Constitution makes sense, that the checks and
 balances in it are effective, and that the
 people who wrote it did a good job.
 Depending on how you phrase the question,
 something like 70 to 95% of Americans have a
 favorable view of the Constitution.
 I'd argue the Constitution is fundamentally
 flawed, and the people creating it knew that and
 just pretend it otherwise.
 And I'm not talking about the contradiction
 between "all men being equal" and the disenfranchisement
 of African Americans, although that was
 horrific and it will be a stain on America
 forever.
 If you read the writings of the Founding
 Fathers discussing the Constitution, you'll
 find a lot of concerns about what they call
 "factions", what we've come to know is political
 parties.
 Federalist 9, written by Hamilton and Federalist
 10, written by Madison and Federalist 51,
 written probably by one or the other, and they
 all made assertions about how the checks and
 balances of the Constitution would protect the
 Union from factions.
 This, of course, didn't happen.
 The famed checks and balances of the American
 experiment have been Trumped, pun intended, by
 officials being more loyal to their parties
 than to the Constitution or the people -
 virtually since the inception of the Republic.
 The purpose of the Federalist Papers in the
 first place was to promote the arguments of the
 Federalist faction and counteract the arguments
 of the Anti-Federalist faction.
 And it's not like this was a new concept. The
 tendency of people to form factions was
 described by Plato in ancient Greece.
 And factions were something the founders were
 all familiar with. There were active parties in
 the English parliament before, during, and
 after the American Revolution.
 And within a decade of the ratification of the
 Constitution, Hamilton and Madison had each
 joined opposing factions that were warring for
 control of the fledgling Republic.
 It was obvious to all of them at the time that
 factions were becoming a problem, and they
 found themselves having to create the 12th
 Amendment to the Constitution
 to address the problems inherent in having a
 president of one party, and a vice president of
 an opposing party. Here was ample opportunity
 to try to further address the obvious failure
 of the Constitution to, as was asserted in the
 Federalist Papers, use checks and balances "as a
 safeguard against domestic factions."
 And yet the drafters did nothing of the sort.
 And I've watched this failure getting worse and
 worse my entire life.
 I really became aware of people putting party
 over country with the big government shutdown
 in the mid 1990s.
 It has escalated pretty consistently ever since,
 with the exception of immediately after
 September 11th, 2001, when a brief period of
 unity resulted in wars in both Afghanistan and
 Iraq, extinguishing hundreds of thousands of
 human lives, including at least 10,000
 Americans, more than three times the casualties
 from 9/11.
 But despite the last couple of minutes, this
 channel isn't about politics.
 I'm here to talk about technology, and although
 the internet did exist in the run up to the mid
 90s, it hadn't yet become widespread enough to
 impact society.
 The primary tech fueling the rise in partisanship
 was actually call-in talk radio, believe it or
 not, enabled by improvements in the software
 switching of long-distance telephone calls,
 along with the breakup of AT&T in 1984 and the
 removal of the FCC Fairness Doctrine in 1987.
 Most of you probably can't imagine that would
 be a big deal, but I assure you it was.
 And in many ways, it was a primitive precursor
 to more recent social media information bubbles,
 just instead of doom-scrolling for hours,
 reading people trying to make you furious and
 partisan, people doom-listened for hours to
 people trying to make them furious and partisan.
 And, as the information bubbles have gotten more
 sophisticated technologically, the partisanship
 has only gotten worse.
 I said earlier, the trying to control your news
 diet doesn't help, and that's because the
 current landscape has made up of various
 outlets and influencers, each cherry-picking
 the current events that best support their
 audience's existing biases,
 and presenting them in their most inflammatory
 way they know how.
 Consuming propaganda from both the left and the
 right is slightly better than only consuming
 either one in isolation, but it's still just
 propaganda and you're still missing out on any
 useful context.
 For example, the government currently has mass
 agents grabbing people off the streets.
 This is horrific and should definitely be
 stopped, and the people doing it should be held
 accountable.
 But, despite what I've seen people claim over
 and over in left-wing bubbles, this isn't
 unprecedented.
 Here is a picture of a bunch of masked thugs in
 their official government capacities, snatching
 a man off the street in broad daylight, but
 this isn't recent.
 It was back in 2014 during the Obama
 administration in Ferguson, Missouri.
 It's not okay now, and it shouldn't have been
 okay back then either.
 The government, at the time I'm writing this,
 has also just arrested an African-American
 journalist for the crime of being a journalist.
 This time it's Don Lemon, formerly of CNN, in
 2014 it was Wes Lowery of the Washington Post.
 Again, this is horrific and we should all
 object, and the same was true in 2014.
 I could go through a laundry list of other precursors,
 like the similarities between the removal of
 the President of Venezuela and the removal of
 the leaders of Granada, Panama, and Haiti under
 Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and
 Bill Clinton, respectively, but hopefully you
 get the point by now.
 The scale is bigger now, and the government is
 more authoritarian now, but the scale gets
 bigger every time, and the government gets more
 authoritarian every time.
 This is just a progression, not something this
 administration just started.
 That's not to excuse it, it's inexcusable, but
 the narrative that this is just a thing that
 the current administration does is just not
 true, which means that the idea that if the
 other team gets elected, democracy will be
 saved is just a lie.
 I'm not saying that both sides are equal, that's
 clearly not true, but given that our choices
 are limited to cruelty and cowardice from the
 right, and complicity and incompetence from the
 left, and gaslighting and propaganda from
 everywhere, what part of the democracy still
 exists to be threatened to be undermined by AI,
 exactly?
 I think we have largely gotten to the point
 where, no matter who is in charge, Congress
 refuses to legislate and, aside from whatever
 crap gets tacked on the appropriation bills,
 pretty much any impact the government has on
 people's lives is either via Presidential
 fiat or Supreme Court capriciousness,
 and the whole ecosystem exists to get each of
 us to pick a team and spend all of our time
 arguing over every little detail of every
 little news report so that we don't have time
 or energy to demand any actual change.
 I have a slim hope, believe it or not, that the
 revulsion and disgust people are starting to
 feel for AI slop might actually allow us away
 out of this mess.
 As the media environment becomes more and more
 saturated with meaningless performative slop
 being pushed on us against our wills, a
 backlash is forming, and some people are
 starting to seek out truth and authenticity.
 And, if enough people do that, we may just have
 enough critical mass to make some real lasting
 changes for once.
 And so, if you've managed to watch this far, I
 beg you, hate on AI slop as much and as often
 and as loudly as you can.
 If we try hard enough and get lucky enough that
 enough people start rejecting the slop, AI
 might just improve all of our lives after all,
 just not in the way that its makers intended,
 desired, or hoped to profit from.
 Thanks so much for listening to me rant. Until
 next time. Let's be careful out there.