[Music] [Music] It's a mistake to think there is one head who controls all this movement. It's just like we opened one box with virus, it came out. It's just like a flu. It's just like flu. So even ISIS is defeated, but you think the ideology will... Of course. There are Daesh in mind, in real. Everywhere. But the challenge is whether he can withstand the continuous tension from the inside. There are only 1200 violent war criminals in France. And more than 10,000 violent criminals need supervision in society. They are all citizens of our country. This number surprised me, because it meant that not only was the surveillance and prevention very difficult, but also that this kind of situation could not be created overnight. Professor Kiper warned in 2008 that a generation of European local terrorists would rise. Professor Kiper's warning was based on the Shenzhen think tank leader Abu al-Baghdadi. the Muslim movement in 2005, which was called the global Islamic resistance movement, thought that Europe was close to the Middle East and had a large number of Muslims immigrating. They called for the young people of their native land to attack the soft belly of Europe. In the counterattack, the cost was low and easy to avoid surveillance. The attack on Mohammed Meira in 2012 started with this model. But at that time, the French intelligence department thought it was just a mental illness of the "wild wolf" crime. Because they have been based on the gold-stated structure of the base organization, overseas investment, sending in agents, and using the model of the bomb. So in a long time, terrorism has been considered. and the threat of foreign invasion. Three years later, the rabid conqueror of Mela, Khori Foukouaki, committed a murder of Charlie Zhouhan. At the end of the year, a major attack on Paris occurred, and 130 people died. The murderer was mainly a British citizen who returned from ISIS. Anis was taken to Syria by the leader of the attack on Paris, Abaoud. His parents were not warned. Anis's mother called the police when her son left, but no one stopped her. Yes, I knew the date. I gave the date to the police, the plane, the direction of the plane. But the police didn't do something. I asked you to block him. It was not a joke. It was a real demand of parents to help them and to block him. But they didn't do something. Anis wrote on social media, "I am not hurt, but the intelligence department is the worst. They've been monitoring me since I was 14. And I'm like butter, running away from the airport. This is a miserable brawl, because no one has ever monitored him." How can you just let him get away before the attack? We were confronted in a year with 300-400 departures without knowing exactly what they were doing there. We didn't have a vision of what was going to happen. It was already too much for us. We were already asphyxiated by the information. How come? I remember when we started working on terrorism, we were a handful. We started at 5, then 10, then 20. And then when I asked for resources, they told me, "But Alain, but terrorists, how many terrorists are there?" "There are none." And then now that there are attacks, everyone has a surreaction. And the problem is that in terms of terrorism, it's too late. After the second war, Belgium learned the lessons of cooperation with the Nazis. In order to prevent the police from making a sound, they deliberately weakened the intelligence department. They only relied on information from foreign security agencies. However, their analysis ability was insufficient. Very few people could understand Arabic. Only after the Brussels attack, did they raise the alert. The Spanish attack could have been stopped at this time. Because at this time, Libor's Imam Sadi was looking for a chance in Belgium. Local community asked him to show no crime when he was in trouble. He could not provide, so he had to return to Spain. Before that, in Spain, he had been in prison twice for selling his population and drugs. His body was exploded in Iraq in 2003, leading to the death of 22 people. The Spanish anti-communist authorities knew his existence for at least 10 years, but the Libyan community did not receive any notice. Saadi did not receive any surveillance, and a year later, a raid was launched. I think this was a total failure for the nationwide counter-terrorism services. Previous criminal record should necessarily be a critical item. There's no vetting system. No specific regulation that communities have to follow. Before the Spanish attack in 2017, the Salafi-Libre Center in Catalonia continued to grow in the last 10 years. [Speaking Spanish] You may think how come Catalonia became such as astonishing ground for Sala Feze. And part of the answer lies with ignorance. Well, two decades ago, England within the United Kingdom and London in particular, were areas in which, because of this institutional tolerance, became London's town. Ignorant tolerance.   I can openly say we should kill the non-Muslims. We should kill this damn Kufar. Look at what Israel has done. We should wipe it off the planet, push the Jews into the sea. Did anyone debate with you? No, nobody bothers. I mean, teachers, students, they don't care. It's freedom. Who cares? Looking back in light of experience, say, okay, we have learnt our lesson. But they created what we call a Frankenstein's monster. To send me into exile is to send me away in the path of Allah. To kill me is to make a My paradise is in my heart. It is with me wherever I go. The symbol of the Belgian state, and they have done 9 rounds, 9 provinces, Inshallah soon Belgium will be separated, but soon, with the will of Allah, Belgium will be liberated from the cult of the abduction. Like Sharia for Belgium, they are very high profile, a lot of provocation on the media. So the politicians, how can they ignore them? They are not taken seriously because they are so visible that they are taken for crazy people. This reminds me of Hitler's speech. People at the time also said, "This is just a lunatic." But no one can stir up hatred. It's Wuhan. The enlightenment was built on the premise of whatever it is, there is a harm principle. You can offend. He can say silly things, mad things, it can be weird, but you cannot incite people to hatred. In the case of us, some of our mosque preachers, under freedom of expression we are, and teaching Islam, we are actually inciting hatred, division, and inciting divinities. You must put laws in place before it gets bad. The law needs to find the necessary balance between freedom and security. and draw a line. After the anti-terrorism law was passed in 2000, the United Kingdom stopped funding overseas organizations. Before the terrorist attack in 2016, the anti-terrorism law was only a rough framework. Spain has not had anti-terrorism law on the national level. Terrorists have no nationality, but there is a national five years before, ten years before, we don't know. Still no answer? No, still no answer. Because we lost trace. We have one European Union, but it doesn't mean that every national police force shares information to the same degree with other national police forces. It makes it easier for criminals and for terrorists to stay out of the spotlight. of their own national police. And you see that criminals are actually using the fact that we have no more borders between us. Terrorism is always looking for a place to settle in society. Some people might say, if you believe in democracy system, you should have confidence. You should allow them, tolerant them. That is exactly what is happening. They are tolerated, they flourish everywhere. Ignorant? No, they are not ignorant. They are not interested. They want to be elected. [Police] This town is called Mullenbik This town is called the "Wentrong of the European Warriors" Two days before the 9/11 in 2001 The terrorists who assassinated the Afghan anti-Taliban leaders came from here Ten years later The Meila of Mohammed is a terrorist organization organized by the Moulins-Bic. The head of the Youth Union of the small town, Jamal, said that since 1992, the former mayor Philip Molo has been in power for 20 years. Less than 100,000 people in the small town have been killed by 22 youths. Jamal has responded to the crisis of extremism in the city, but his information has been ignored. Morocco has done a lot for young people here. pour les adultes. Mais aussi, il a fermé les yeux sur pas mal de choses. Il n'est pas le seul. Beaucoup de politiciens en Europe, pour les voies électorales, ils ferment les yeux. Est-ce que vous pensez que vous vous sentez à la danger de l'extrême? Il est quelqu'un qui défend les libertés et les droits de l'homme. Malheureusement, des fois quand on donne trop de liberté à des gens qui ne sont pas prêts pour la liberté, ça crée des problèmes. I'm in the city government we met the current mayor of Mullenbeck, François Schipman. Opposite his office is the residence of two of the terrorist in the Paris attacks. But until he took office in 2012, he was the first to establish a counter-terrorism center. Only two social workers. Some people see that politicians in Mullenbeck ignored the dangers of extremism to get votes. Do you agree? We consider that Mullenbeck is a  l'allocation de chômage. Vous n'avez pas de logement mais on va vous donner un logement public. Mais finalement on n'a pas demandé qu'ils apprennent la langue, on n'a pas demandé qu'ils participent, qu'ils travaillent et donc ces gens sont restés entre eux et finalement on connaît mal ces nouveaux habitants. A female police officer from the late Mologe, Morobik, took us to see the community. This is like a social housing. So this is one of those blocks where everyone's small apartments, they have a lot of children, so they don't have the space. In the last 30 years, the population of this town has increased by 15%. Traditional housing and education systems are hard to support. We saw some children at night who were single and were alone on the street at night No one was watching them In 2012, when President Sheperman took over Molenbeke was in a state of bankruptcy High unemployment rate and discrimination are a vicious circle. The youth under 25 are half-employed. At the subway station, a few young people stayed here for the whole afternoon. But they refused to talk to me. They said the police were looking for them. When I talked to others, they went ahead.  In the 1990s, Molenbik was already the bed of the most rebellious is in a way the culmination of a long process. But how this kind of policy can exist for a long time? Almost 30 years. So this multicultural social laboratory, as my predecessor said, it doesn't work. The results of letting go become giving up. The results of power vacuum will always be taken over. Not far away is the Multiculturalism melts into something that we have in common. What unites us is more important than what divides us, right? And the multiculti blah blah blah considers that what divides us is far more important, that we have to enhance our differences. This leads to the balkanization of society. and this leads to civil war. So for you, where is the limit? The limit is violence. When you plot in order to implement violence, you're a criminal, and then you can be sentenced. But when you proselytize ideas, if those ideas are not threatening people, you know, the debate is free. This pluralism is a daily intellectual battle, of course. The difficulties of the civil war are that the Salafi religious and political parties do not support violence. For a long time, they have been treated as religious freedom and have not been challenged. Su Hai's parents are religious. They do not allow children to take music and swimming lessons in primary school from school gatherings. British Shido-based culture does not interfere with religion and believes that parents have the freedom to decide their children's education. No one has ever asked the children's feelings. They're the non-violent type of set fees. But I'm the product of them. Really is like a spectrum. And then they're just not clear lines. They're all kind of mixing with each other. - How did it influence you? - It really hardened the us and them mentality. That mentality kind of seeping through in everyday parts of my life. All the Muslim kids in school stick together against the group. (speaking in foreign language) is described as "the hatred and hostility towards non-Muslims". people first. It's dehumanizing them, it's saying that you're better than them and then if you kind of internalize this mentality into someone since you're a kid and then they end up kind of doing something violent, how can you even act like you're surprised? Professor Leinand-Lys said that the British tried to cooperate with the Salafi-Jewish sect to suppress the Shengzhan sect. But the result is that the two sects are growing in parallel. Violent or not, shares the same doctrinal basis. Jihadists say we are just like Salafists, but at us we fight for that one Islamic state, one caliphate. All Salafists are not Jihadists, not at all. But almost all Jihadists are Salafists or were Salafists in the past. In the interview, some people proposed that it should be prohibited to publish Salafis or to come from the capital of Shattu. But the other part believes that this is not feasible, because Salafis are not from a specific country or organization. It is a kind of private market. Many organizations in the country are promoting it. Shattu only became the biggest spreader by using oil and coal. The only thing that is being discussed is the propaganda of this concept, which also makes the Shattas themselves and become the victim of terrorism. Under freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of capital, etc. People have the right to ask for funds from abroad and for people to send. If you were to ban all Saudi funding, you'd have to ban from many other countries. I don't think it's workable. So I think the best way to deal with all this is actually to deal with ideas. If we wanted to criminalize Salafism, for instance, then we would stop to be democratic. I don't think it's a legal issue. It's mainly a political battle. What do we should do about this ideology? Expose it as an ideology. I don't know. If you can't say the question clearly, any vacuum may be filled up. Sometimes it's a terrible answer. (The second day of the Lampra attack, I saw the Spanish right-wing leader Vox trying to get into the Lampra game) (He was disbanded after a physical conflict with the left-wing organization) (But in 2021, this organization got 15% of the votes in the national election) (Became the fastest-growing European country)  The worst category was traitors. They knew they could be killed according to Islamic law. It's perfectly normal to kill them. The Quran and the Hadith say we have to conquer the world with violence if necessary. Your father fought in Afghanistan. Your father fought in Burma. And I'm proud of him. Do you see any similarity between them and the formal you? Yes, exactly. That's why they say it's two sides of the same coin. All these kind of extreme ideology is black and white, us and them, propaganda, partial knowledge, picking and choosing, highlighting all the brads on each side. The people on the far right ultimately have the same interpretation of Islam as the jihadists. That's the irony. Irony The only part is like the winner 用極端主義來指代整個宗教讓多數穆斯林成為雙重受害者而跟他們雙方交談時我都聽到了狂熱之下的虛弱和懷疑所以你的解決方法是什麼停止穆斯林移民這是本質的例如在香港他們幾乎沒有任何穆斯林他們沒有任何問題因為他們的恐怖攻擊你知道歐盟有一個名義就是重複自由你最重視的 Yeah, exactly. And that is...     más políticas y económicas a nivel global que por la propia religión que es el desencandeante para que hagan esas acciones. Estos dos aspectos se planifican para que la sociedad se empiece a la distinción. Esta realidad me obliga a reflexionar. Porque antes de la entrevista, no he leído a Gu Lanjing, porque presta la sensación de que la religión es la religión de la religión y no es relacionada con la política. Every time I interviewed someone who used religious texts, I was nervous and wanted to avoid it. I was worried that it would cause Islamic terrorism. The people I interviewed encouraged me and even warned me. They said that I couldn't stay here. Because before the question is clear, it is impossible to get the right answer. If you oppose Islamic terrorism, it means that you can't mention religion. Even the anti-Semites of these former saints,  political leader who speaks about this problem. The solutions are worse than the problem. A lot of politicians say that it's not related to Islam. No, no, that's not true. You listen to the terrorists themselves, they say they're doing it for the sake of Islam, right? So a lot of them are misguided. The sad truth is a lot of them do get these ideas from a twisted interpretation of the scripture, of the Quran, of the hadith. And we have to analyze that very carefully. Salafism is actually the most puritanical and conservative interpretation of Sunni Islam. Salafism is a religious issue or a political issue. It's both. There is no religion without politics. But do you worry about being called Islamphobic? So I don't give a damn about that. It's a tool which was invented by Islamists. It's parallel at times with the anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism has nothing to do with the Jewish scriptures or the Hebrew scriptures. It is something that has to do with the hatred of Jews as individuals. Islamophobia is not Muslimphobia, it's Islamophobia. It is something that does not allow you to criticize the scriptures. The texts are sacred. Whoever criticizes the texts is an Islamophob. And it does not allow for the movement of enlightenment, of whatever, of allegorical reading of the scriptures. You don't think this word is accurate? Not at all. It's a fake concept. This sentence is a strong touch to me. I accepted the concept of Islamic terrorism because it was widely used. The United Nations even named it "International Anti-Islamic Terrorism Day". I suspected that this concept would have a kind of double pressure on intelligence and morality. It was Professor Keper's words that reminded me to inquire him. I realized that this was a scientific question. and controversial concept. Some scholars criticize this statement for its oversimplification of complex phenomena and the debate on the division of two levels. And many of these opinions come from the reformist scholars of Mussolini. They think this word should be re-established. But I accepted it without thinking. I even internalized it. Maybe Salafism as a minority can grow in Europe not because of freedom of speech but because of freedom of speech didn't play a role. Because on such a topic that needs to compete with thoughts, people like me automatically set the course of thought and put the good will of the Muslim community and the discussion of the text. Let's talk about everything honestly, and not scream right wing or racist or whatever else it is. Talk about the truth, because right now you can't even talk about facts without offending anyone. It's always intended in a way that is meant to silence any further discussion. So like, oh, it's the white people's fault anyway, let's stop blaming the brown people. Okay, fine. Let's accept the colonial aspect of it too. But now let's also talk about how Muslims are also responsible for much of the stuff they've done. Sounds like we want to be treated equally. Yeah. Like adults. Exactly. We want to be treated equally like an adult. The former Saint-Petersburgers I interviewed said that to truly do the Qujijing painting, we must understand how Saint-Petersburgers legalize violence from the text of the four-face. They said that the word Saint-Petersburgers is "fighting". It has spirituality and also has the meaning of "wisdom". The late Mohammed was a political and military commander in his lifetime. He was persecuted by the rulers in the Maidan. There must be a military internal conflict. And the Arab nomadic society in the 70s did not have the form of power and government. The religious unity of Umar is inevitable. After the death of the Prophet, the internal division and sectarian warfare broke out in the Islamic regime. During the time of the Halifa-Omar, the judgment was based on the religious teachings of the Gulan and the rumored After the collapse of the high-level Islamic world in the 10th century, the Muslim world was in a state of political power. According to the scholars of religion, the military meaning of the war was in a state of "sacrifice". But the Salafi-based war is back to the roots. The war to awaken the sword is to be taught from the word. I take it on trust God's words, but it's still the interpretation and the imagination is still mythical. What is real? Now to talk about something that was devised by human beings based on the culture and condition of something that was a thousand years ago and that's what we're going to bring back. What did ancient masters have said? It's like quoting Confucius to say make law now. You need to, the scholars must question that. Ask me, give me a copy of the Sharia. Okay, give me a copy. I can never give it to you if you kill me. Why? It doesn't exist. Ask me to give you something which you can figure out is what the Sharia says but choose. Then you find that the controversy is on two levels. One, authenticity of that evidence. Second, the context in which it operated. What made it happen? Why was it done? To whom? Under what circumstances? The third thing is of course even if that happened at that time, Are we now obliged to adopt the same method of execution? Are you going to ask some very core values? Yes, thank you for asking that. That is what I was trying to say in such a long-winded manner. Yeah, there's a question of basis meaning here. Core values or core precepts. And the Sharia is not a fixed thing to give you. It is faith plus religion. Religion is essentially man-made. The Arabian Peninsula in the 7th century was a common place for slave system, wealth system and physical form. Israel ended the bloody conflict between tribes. It partially gave slaves and women the right to be the reformers of the 7th century. The teachings of the Golden Age were full of vitality, encouraging rational reasoning, forming different sects, and giving a tangible response to reality. Abbasid dynasty, Halifa, Mamun, supported the rationalist sect. This sect was deeply influenced by the Greek philosophy, and claimed that the Gulan is fabricated. Humans have the will to be free, and can infer the truth through reason and logic. In this period, Baghdad had many religious differences. There was academic debate, no border, no borders. Europe is still in the dark of the Middle Ages Islam has become the world's scientific, philosophical, medical and educational center delivered to you. From this book? There were a lot more debates going on in the original kind of, you go back a few hundred years and there were a lot more debates going on within Islamic theology. People would argue about all kinds of things that we're kind of discussing now like human rights. It happened in the past, it can happen in the future. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. After Mahmoud died, the religious policies that supported the rationalist sects soon failed. The Islamic philosophy gradually lost its influence in the Islamic world. The political influence of the traditional religious groups increased. After the 11th century, the reasoning no longer worked in Islamic religion. They believed that human reasoning would make mistakes, and God's law was perfect. In the 11th century, the scholar Ansari opposed the theory of rationalism on the relationship between the cause and effect, and separated philosophy from the divine. This view was widely accepted by later Islamic philosophy. The Muslim philosopher Roshid in Andalusia was angry at the Halifa and the authentic religious scholars for their rationalist views, and was exiled and destroyed by the book. At this time, Greek philosophy took the research of Muslim scholars and returned to Europe in the twelfth century. Einstein said that Western scientific development is based on two major achievements. Greek philosophers invented the form-logic system and found causal relations through systematic experiments. It is a kind of thought preserved in the Arab world. And Suhail, born in London in 1992, was full of hostility and fear of philosophy. Philosophy of maths, philosophy of knowledge, philosophy of science. Philosophy was haram. Philosophy is haram. Oh yeah, philosophy was completely... Just don't ever touch philosophy. That was what the Islamic scholars would say. Did they give you any reason? They said it would lead you astray. And I was too afraid of being led astray. I look at the historical photos, in the last century, the popular modern wave of the Islamic State has left a deep impression on me. But after the rise of the Salafi dynasty, They believe that Shisubwah is a product of殖民主義 They said they are not really Islam They are corrupt They are not preaching the real Islam to us So the only real Islam we can find in the writings In the Quran, in the Hadith We have to live according to the purest interpretation So it's like a defending reaction Almost like a defending reaction Yes, yes, yes, exactly This kind of defensive mentality is the result of Salafism's cancellation of the media of explanation and emphasizing the direct reading of classics. But the historical background of ignoring the text is only understood from the perspective. There is an aspect of Salafism which is purely about worship and being pious and purifying the heart and leaving people alone and not being harmful at all. because it's traditional, it's going back to classical and the old, and our problem is with unupdated. So that classical old heritage material can become problematic when taken, hijacked by political Islam. Much of Islam, about jihad, about Islamic state, about can you liberate non-Muslims, equality or gender equality amongst people. It's not because God said these are the rules in this pocket and that the scholars must question and re-evaluate those precepts. 不要說我沒有支持伊斯蘭我不是恐怖者當然不是你認為這並不足夠嗎這並不足夠我們要處理如果不是就像我們一樣會隨便拿一本書來說你不談論這件事我讀過一本書《雙心兩腦》說刑罰是絕對的他在揭穿證據這裡有哈桑說回到根源是信徒的真誠渴望 But after breaking through the understanding of capitalism, he began to pursue the true root of religion. And the prophet taught in Mecca in his final sermon that everybody equal, God created the earth and dust. For me that's the source, the seeds of that great civilization is still very strong. We need better politics and we need better political structures. I suppose, adding management structures to unleash, unlock the potential. Are you talking about Islamic reform? For me, reform or adaptation of the religion is essentially Islamic, it's not something new. We're not changing the religion, we're actually preserving it. - Is that right? - Yeah, preserving it. Otherwise, it's being killed by groups like ISIS, you know, following it literally and causing damage and devastation on a massive scale.  It was the result of fighting for the religion. Europe paid the price of blood and fire. So the religion was released from the political power. It became personal freedom. In history, Buddhism and the Jutai religion were also used as a tool for violence. I used to think religion is natural and peaceful. Past is peaceful and forever peaceful. It's just a kind of unity. It's not like the desire of history to be open. Faith is the foundation of culture, but the faith is the foundation of humanity. The foundation of culture can be the basis for the report of the novelist, and it can also express the highest moral sensitivity. This is the choice of people. Then how did the former saints I interviewed make the choice?