After the outbreak of the Israeli-Palestinian war
Western governments have come out to support Israel
Condemns Hamas terrorist attacks
The United States
stands with Israel.
I want to express my absolute solidarity
for the people of Israel.
Taiwan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs also lit up the Israeli flag at Taipei 101
In comparison
Arab countries are overwhelmingly supportive of Palestine
past few weeks
There are also many civil demonstrations in support of Palestine around the world.
How did this conflict begin?
Where did it start?
It started in 1948 with the ethnic cleasing of 700,000 Palestinians
.
It started on the 7th of Oct with the murder
of 1,300 people.
Why did the Israeli-Palestinian conflict evolve into what it is today?
The book we are going to face today is "The Sorrow of Palestine"
Let’s talk about the big history of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
The author Rashid Khalidi is a history professor at Columbia University in the United States.
He is a professor of history at Columbia University in the United States.
Great uncle was mayor of Jerusalem
My father is a United Nations official
The author himself has negotiated with Israel on behalf of Palestine many times.
Today let us start with five key events that determined the fate of Palestine
To restore the historical original appearance of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
First, let’s clarify, who are the Palestinians?
Palestinians are descendants of Arabs
From the expansion of the Arab Empire in the 7th century to the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in the 20th century
Palestinians have always inherited their Arab culture
Have own cultural identity
until the beginning of the 20th century
There are already many Jewish immigrants in Palestine
These Jews integrated into local society
Even learn Arabic
Jews and Muslims coexist peacefully
There are no ethnic or religious conflicts
It's very important to know this
Because the media likes to say: Israel and Palestine are a thousand-year feud and a century-old historical dispute.
It's as if the two sides have never coexisted peacefully.
But actually
The conflict only began after World War I
Because at the end of the 19th century, European society as a whole was seriously anti-Semitic.
inspired a group of Jews
Believing to stop being persecuted by Europeans
The Jews are about to establish their own kingdom
As it says in the Old Testament:
God promises that the displaced Jews will return to the Promised Land and live in Jerusalem
The location of this Promised Land was Palestine at that time
This political ideology is called Zionism
Also called "Zionism"
Theodor Herzl, the founder of Zionism at that time
I think we can use the human sea tactic
Bringing in large numbers of Jewish immigrants to establish colonies
Herzl considered Palestine and Argentina
Because Argentina had a sparse population at that time, it was suitable for immigrants.
But after all, Palestine has the historical origins of Jewish ancestors, which makes it more attractive.
But here comes the problem
Palestine has been inhabited by Arabs for more than a thousand years
How to do it
Zionists went around privately lobbying various countries
After being rejected by many countries
Finally found Britain willing to support this colonial plan during World War I
So why did the UK agree?
On the surface, it is to allow the Jews to return to the Promised Land
But there are actually more motives behind it
First, Britain itself is anti-Semitic
It would be nice for Jews to immigrate to other places
Second, Britain believes that supporting the Jews can win over Jewish groups around the world.
Especially letting the United States join the war
Third, Britain already controlled Egypt at that time
Want to control the route of the Suez Canal
Palestine is located right next to the Sinai Peninsula
So on November 2, 1917
British Foreign Secretary Arthur Balfour issued the Balfour Declaration
Commitment of British support to the establishment of a national homeland for the Jews in Palestine
Balfour says importance of Jewish plutonicism
Far better than the 700,000 Arabs who live in this land
When the manifesto was released
British troops have captured Jerusalem
News about the Balfour Declaration banned
So the Palestinians don’t actually know about this
The Balfour Declaration gave Zionism the support of the most powerful country at the time
But actually
Britain has long made the same commitment as the Arabs
In 1915, Britain told the Arabs
You help us overthrow the Ottoman Empire
After the war is over, I will recognize you as an independent country.
Britain, the Jews and the Arabs all made commitments
At the same time, "Arab nationalism" and "Zionism" were cultivated
After the First World War, the Ottoman Empire collapsed
The League of Nations entrusted Britain with the administration of Palestine
But Britain failed to keep its promises to the Arabs
Palestine was not allowed to become an independent state
Instead, it allowed large-scale immigration of Jews into Palestine
Many wealthy Jews purchased large amounts of land
drive away local farmers
The most well-known of these is the Immigration Association (PICA) founded by the Rothschild family.
Jewish immigrant population in Palestine
From 6% in 1919 to 18% in 1926
After the Nazis came to power in 1933
There are also a large number of German Jews
60,000 people flee to Palestine every year
During 30 years of hosting in the UK
No matter how hard the Palestinians fight
Britain doesn't give them democratic institutions
Because at this time, Palestinians are still the majority
If they were given democratic rights
They can use democratic voting to drive the Jews out
Because fighting for rights and interests with British officials for a long time has been in vain.
So in 1936 a massive uprising broke out in Palestine
National 6-month general strike
Palestinians originally wanted to be like India's Gandhi
Engage in a civil disobedience movement that refuses to pay taxes
But the leadership is too timid
Don't dare to offend the British
Want to use peaceful diplomacy to ask Britain to give up its support for Zionism
The uprising lasted until 1939, which coincided with the outbreak of World War II
Britain deploys 100,000 troops to Palestine
Use force to suppress locals
Tying Palestinians to the front of British armored vehicles
This way they would not dare to attack the British army
Large-scale repression resulted in casualties of 10% of local adult men
Palestinian national leaders were expelled
Including the then mayor of Jerusalem
That is, the author's uncle
These atrocities led to protests in surrounding Arab countries
So the then British Prime Minister Chamberlain
Just publish a white paper to appease the Arabs
Commitment to allow Palestinians to achieve national self-determination within 10 years
But this is really just to get the Arabs to stop revolution
Won't really fulfill the promise
The author thinks
The Palestinian national revolutionaries should not have negotiated peace with the British
Instead, we should learn from India’s Congress Party
Start a civil disobedience movement like Gandhi
Then break away from British colonial rule and become independent like India
A truth revealed about British Palestine
Zionism is ostensibly about bringing wandering Jews home
Modern Israel was born in the aftermath of the tragedy
of the holocaust.
The state of Israel was
created to fulfill the long standing dream of the Jewish people
To return to the home of their biblical
origins.
Behind this is actually a colonial plan that relies on violence
Unable to suppress without British assistance
The Zionist movement cannot emerge in Palestine
This is why many prominent Jews do not support this plan
As Freud once said
Treat Palestine as the site of Jewish statehood
It is "the baseless fanaticism"
It will only "offend the feelings of the natives".
And Einstein personally visited Palestine in 1922
After seeing the oppression of local Palestinians,
sigh
<font color=#323232FF>If we cannot find </font>
<font color=#323232FF> a way to cooperate and dialogue with the Arabs, </font>
<font color=#323232FF>then we will not learn from the past</font> font>
<font color=#323232FF>Nothing can be learned from two thousand years of pain,</font>
<font color=#323232FF>And all the pain we have experienced</font>
<font color=#323232FF> is our own fault. </font>
<font color=#323232FF>November 25, 1929</font>
<font color=#323232FF>Letter from Einstein to Chaim Weizmann</font>
As soon as the British White Paper came out in 1939
Zionists felt betrayed by Britain
Planned several terrorist attacks
Assassination of British Diplomats
Even blowing up the hotel where the British headquarters is located
Britain did not expect the Zionist group it had cultivated for more than 20 years
He immediately turned his face and refused to recognize anyone.
In the end, I found that I couldn’t deal with these people.
So in 1947
British Prime Minister Clement Attlee leaves the Palestinian issue to the United Nations
Let countries vote to decide the fate of Palestine
But the direction of this vote
In fact, it is in the hands of the two major powers that dominated the international order after the war.
United States and Soviet Union
The United States has always been a country that is relatively tolerant of Jews
Many Jews who were persecuted in Europe immigrated to the United States
1880-1920 years
The Jewish population in the United States grows from 250,000 to 4 million
So in 1942
It was in New York that Zionist leaders met to develop the Biltmore plan
First public appeal
Transform Palestine into a Jewish state
These leaders are wealthy businessmen and highly intellectuals
I have connections in the United States again
But Arab countries also want to win over the United States
Because the United States needs Arab oil
Therefore, their interests must also be taken into consideration
President Roosevelt a few weeks before his death
Just personally guarantee it to the King of Saudi Arabia
Will not do anything to harm Palestinians
If we need to take action, we will discuss it with them
Unexpectedly, after President Truman took over,
Ignoring past U.S. commitments and blatantly supporting Zionism
His staff warned him at the time
By doing so, you will harm U.S. interests in the Arab world.
Even the Pentagon and CIA don't support him
But President Truman responded
I'm responsible for hundreds of thousands of Jewish voters in America
But I don't have hundreds of thousands of Arabs in my electorate
So in order to get the votes of the large number of Jewish immigrants in the country,
America turns to support Zionism
The Anglo-American Commission of Inquiry was established in 1946
Immigrate 100,000 survivors of Nazi concentration camps to Palestine
Because the British and American countries themselves are unwilling to accept these people
It is in this situation
United Nations votes to decide Palestine's fate in 1947
Truman and Stalin voted in favor
Resolution split Palestine in two
A Jewish state and an Arab state
Jerusalem is an independent entity
This is the "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 181" of 1947
It is equivalent to international recognition
Let the Jews establish their own state on Arab soil
After this resolution was passed
As early as 1948, the Zionists proclaimed the establishment of the state of Israel.
In the same year, Israel launched “Plan D”
Turn former British Mandate territory into Israeli territory
Violently evicted local Arab residents
As a result, 80% of the local Arabs were forced to leave their homes.
More than 700,000 Palestinians become refugees
Flee to other countries
Or be placed in a UN refugee camp
Almost a massive ethnic cleansing, known as the Nakba
There are 2.2 million people penned into an open air in Gaza
.
The significant majority
of thoe people are not from Gaza.
They're refugees who are ethnnnically cleaved
from their home in 1948.
After this violent change
Israel controls 78% of Palestinian territory
Rule over the few Palestinians who can stay
These Palestinians have become second-class citizens
When Israel was founded
In fact, I once wanted to find Einstein to be the first president.
But Einstein refused
He even wrote back to the Zionists:
<b><font color=#323232FF>If Palestine falls into a real disaster</font></b>
<b><font color=#323232FF>The culprit is the British government that planted the seeds of the disaster</font></ b> <b><font color=#323232FF>The second is
the various terrorist organizations formed by
the Jews in order to restore their country</font></b> <b><font color=#323232FF></font></b >
<b><font color=#323232FF>I don’t want to see anyone</font></b>
<b><font color=#323232FF>have anything to do with these misguided criminals</font> </ /b>
<b><font color=#323232FF>April 10, 1948, </font></b>
<b><font color=#323232FF>Einstein to Shepard Rifkin</font>< /b>
after the catastrophe
Palestinians developed a strong collective identity
Gaza becomes the epicenter of Palestinian resistance
Organizations such as Hamas and Islamic Jihad all started here.
In 1964, the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) was established.
The course of action at that time was to directly attack Israel
to arouse public opinion in Arab countries
Let the public put pressure on the government
Let the countries in the Middle East do something about Israel
This trick really worked
In 1965, the Israeli government diverted water from the Jordan River to the center of Israel.
Make the Arab people miserable
Palestinian raiders took the opportunity to attack an Israeli water pumping station
In response, the Egyptian government
Send troops to assist Palestine and attack the Sinai Peninsula
This just gives Israel a reason to send troops to Egypt
At that time, Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban held a meeting with President Johnson of the United States.
Says Egypt is preparing to attack Israel
President Johnson replied: "If war breaks out, you will beat them to hell."
Because Israel's military power at that time far exceeded that of all Arab countries combined.
But the media likes to spread a myth
Israelis must protect their homeland
Because the Arab countries want to destroy the weak Jewish state
As if Israel is a victim surrounded by Arab countries
Israel is a Beacon of democracy in a sea of ​​violence and hostility
Israel is a Beacon of democracy in a sea of ​​violence and hostility
It deserves America's support
and it deserves our support.
A strong Israel
is key to stability and security in the Middle East.
But actually
Israel is a military power
Back in the days of President Kennedy
Israel hides this from the United States
Secretly obtained nuclear weapons technology from France
By the time of President Johnson
Israel regards itself as an ally of the United States
Fighting Soviet proxy states in the Middle East
In 1967 with the approval of the United States
Israeli air force blitzkrieg
Annihilate Egyptian, Syrian, and Jordanian fighter jets
Conquer enemy airspace within 6 days
known as the six day war
Because at that time, the Israeli army was almost reaching Damascus, Syria.
UN Security Council orders ceasefire
But at that time, the U.S. representatives kept asking for the adjournment of the meeting
The ceasefire resolution was delayed for several hours.
This is actually the usual cooperation model between the United States and Israel.
Israel is the armed vanguard on the ground
The United States is a diplomatic cover
Finally, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 242
Call for an armistice in Israel
Exit occupied territory
A just solution to the refugee problem
But Israel deliberately exploits textual loopholes
You didn't say which occupied territory you wanted to withdraw from?
This allowed Israel to annex East Jerusalem, which originally belonged to Jordan.
and the Golan Heights belonging to Syria
The United Nations only condemned it but did not take any actual action to impose sanctions.
Moreover, Resolution 242 talks about “a just solution to the refugee problem.”
Which refugees are they?
Not specified as Palestinian
This allows Israel to continue denying the existence of Palestinians
The then Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir said: There are no Palestinians
I mean you deny that there was a Palestine Arab people before
But there is now
a Palestine liberation movement.
I don't say there are no Palestinians
.
but I say there is no such
thing as a distinct Palestinian people.
This discussion is very important for Israel
Because if we admit that there used to be a nation living here
It is tantamount to admitting that you are invading other people's land.
Palestinians must be stigmatized
They are said to be uncivilized nomads
Or aboriginal people who have no concept of country
It makes people feel that Palestine is not a country in the first place.
Israeli sociologist Baruch Kimmerling calls this "politicide"
Denying a people’s historical connection to their land
Besides, this land has belonged to certain people since ancient times.
So it is reasonable for these people to rebuild their homes here.
But the more Israel denies the existence of the Palestinian nation
The Palestinians’ sense of resistance is getting stronger
Resolution 242 became the trigger for the Palestinian national renaissance movement
Many art and literature writers emerged after this incident
Literary works further inspire Palestinian national identity
Like the novelist Ghassan Kanafani, because he is so influential
He was assassinated by the Israelis in 1972
over the past half century
Many Palestinian intellectuals and important figures have been assassinated by Israel
This debunks another common Israeli trope
Calling Palestinians terrorists
Israel is just doing anti-terrorism operations
But if you are really doing counter-terrorism
The target should be an armed terrorist
rather than unarmed intellectuals and civilians
until today
Israel supporters still use the same narrative
He said the attack on Gaza was because Hamas first terrorized Israel.
The IDF knowing
that, pressing bottons from the sky,
killing innocent
civilians, 1,000 of them are children.
That is a war crime, and that is not morally acceptable .
Do you think this should be condemned?
Is it condemnable or not?
I believe, given the scale of what Hamas did on Oct 7th ,
Israel is entitled to
Can you kill a child?
to kill children?
No.
That's not what I said.
Israel has the right to defend itself with force.
They are entitled to defend themselves with force.
But if you really want to fight terrorism
You should go after Hamas
Instead of attacking civilians and children indiscriminately
in the 1970s
The PLO moved to Lebanon as a government-in-exile
PLO planning attacks on Israeli officials
Sometimes local Lebanese civilians are killed indiscriminately
And the superiors will not be punished
This led to local resentment towards the PLO
But the PLO cannot see its mistakes
Think that you are the righteous party
This gives Israel an opportunity
While the PLO shot the Israeli ambassador
An excuse to send troops to Lebanon
Start the Lebanon War
On the one hand, revenge on the PLO
On the one hand, we hope to get support from Lebanon
Because there is Soviet power behind the flattery organization
Therefore, the Reagan administration in the United States also supports Israel sending troops
This war in Lebanon is the first since World War II
Arab capital suffers worst attack yet
50,000 people injured, mostly civilians
Why bomb civilians?
Because Israel wants to make local people hate Palestine
Let them know that hosting these refugees will result in being attacked
At that time, Israeli Prime Minister Begin even wrote to President Reagan saying
"My heroic army is like fighting Hitler"
In the imagination of Israeli leaders
The PLO is like the Nazis who want to exterminate the Jews
It is justifiable to sacrifice civilians to fight against the Nazis
Amid heavy casualties, the PLO surrenders and plans to withdraw from Lebanon
The condition is that after they leave
There needs to be an armed force that can protect the Palestinian civilians here.
The Lebanese Prime Minister at the time told the PLO:
The Lebanese and U.S. governments will provide appropriate security guarantees
Unexpectedly, the United States suddenly changed its tune after the PLO withdrew.
Allow international forces responsible for monitoring civilian safety to withdraw
The Palestinians were put in a row
The United States finally listens to Israel
And after the troops protecting civilians left,
Israel also lied to American diplomats
Says 2,000 Palestinian fighters remain in the city
Violation of evacuation protocol
We must go back and conduct a thorough investigation
But the Lebanese army is actually going to be sent into the city.
Three consecutive days of massacre in Beirut refugee camp unfold
Hundreds of men, women and children shot to death in Palestinian refugee camp in Beirut
At that time, the author was taking refuge at the American University of Beirut.
Israeli armored forces demand thorough investigation of campus terrorists
The principal at the time replied
There are no terrorists in our school
If you want to find it, go to your army and ask the people who destroyed Beirut.
This is how the author narrowly survived
This war in Lebanon has made the entire Arab world even more disgusted with the United States and Israel.
There was also a huge outcry in Israel
Israel's Supreme Court establishes committee to investigate refugee camp massacre
Israeli policymakers at the time were dismissed from their posts
but was not punished by law
This massacre was also made into a movie (Waltz with Bashir) by Israeli director Ari Folman in 2008.
And internationally, because the media repeatedly broadcast war scenes
Let the world begin to realize that compared to the Palestinians
Israel's actions are more like terrorists
Israel becomes a war criminal state
Palestinians start to gain more international sympathy
After the Lebanon War, the PLO withdraws
This did not demoralize the Palestinians
On the contrary, it arouses more resistance
The Palestinian uprising (Intifada) broke out in 1987
Organizing nonviolent resistance from the bottom up
Israel’s defense minister immediately launched a crackdown
Dozens of Israeli soldiers were filmed beating Palestinian children
The most classic scene is a child throwing rocks at an Israeli tank
The uprising damaged Israel's international standing
Increased visibility of Palestine
This made the PLO realize:
Non-violent resistance can gain more international support
No more armed struggle
In fact, the Pakistani intellectual Eqbal Ahmad had already suggested
The use of armed resistance will remind Israelis of the history of Jewish oppression in the past.
On the contrary, it will strengthen their sense of victimhood and make them want to defend Israel.
We should turn to creative non-violent resistance actions
To break through the deadlock
So in 1988
Insatiable organization issues Palestinian declaration of independence
Demands to formally relinquish entire Palestinian land
and accept the partition of the two countries
At this time, the leadership has begun to advocate
To create a Palestine that coexists peacefully with Israel
Until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991
US wins Persian Gulf War
The Bush administration believed that a new world order led by the United States was coming
The United States can be a mediator
Start peace negotiations
Determining the future of the Palestinians
in this negotiation
The author is an advisor to the Palestinian delegation
Give personal testimony
He said before the negotiations started
The United States promises to take care of both sides
But actually
Only Israel can decide who can negotiate
And what is the content of the negotiation?
At that time, the U.S. negotiator (Aaron David Miler) even said
The role of the U.S. representative is like Israel’s lawyer
And Israel keeps stalling
This will allow more Jewish immigrants to enter the occupied territories of Palestine
Finally, in August 1993, the two parties signed the Oslo Accords.
in this meeting
The special envoy sent by the PLO is not a diplomat or legal professional
I can’t see that there are many devils hiding in the details
Israel says Palestinians in occupied territories can have high degree of autonomy
But has no control over land, water, borders
But let Israel control these resources
In fact, it is tantamount to controlling the Palestinians
For the PLO
The Oslo Accords can bring the PLO, which has been in exile for many years, back home, which is a good thing
But actually
After these people come back, it will be easier for Israel to control them
Moreover, Israel can also blame the PLO for the consequences of colonization.
If something happens to the Israelis
It means that you, the PLO, are not taking care of the Palestinians.
Not because we oppress Palestinians
Therefore, Said, a Palestinian intellectual at that time, commented:
The Oslo Accords were the Palestinian Treaty of Versailles
After the signing of the Oslo Accords
PLO leader Arafat wins Nobel Peace Prize
It seems as if the Israeli-Palestinian conflict of nearly a century has finally been reconciled
but in fact this is not the case
In 1995, the two sides signed the Oslo Document II.
Making free movement between the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem difficult
In the past, you could just drive there.
Now we have to pass through the Israeli quarantine station
Equivalent to losing the ability to move freely
Only a small number of PLO personnel could pass directly through these checkpoints
This makes it more difficult for Palestinians to come to Israel to work
disrupts local economic activity
GDP per capita begins to decline
So after the Oslo Accords
In fact, life for most Palestinians has gotten worse
Only the PLO's own life gets better
This makes Palestinians dissatisfied
It was at this time that Hamas emerged
Exploiting public dissatisfaction with the PLO to grow rapidly
Hamas tells everyone
The PLO has been negotiating with the United States and Israel through peaceful channels for decades
As a result, our living conditions are getting worse and worse.
Ingratiating groups betrayed Palestinians
Only force can truly liberate Palestine
This attracts the masses
Hamas launched the second major uprising in September 2000
Suicide bombings against Israeli civilians
Protest against the Oslo Accords
The violent attack damaged Palestine's international image
From peace negotiator to terrorist
The world turns to sympathize with Israel again
After the 911 terrorist attacks, the United States
Passed the USA PATRIOT Act (2001)
It stipulates that as long as you support Hamas or the PLO
would be regarded as supporting terrorism and would be considered a crime
This highlights the double standards of the United States
Hamas is indeed a terrorist when it attacks civilians
But Israel is still suppressing Palestinian civilians
but will not be regarded as terrorists
Later, the United States also trained a Gaza security force in an attempt to overthrow Hamas
As a result, the coup failed and Hamas gained more control over Gaza.
Israel therefore decided to launch a comprehensive siege
Cut off the supply of goods and fuel imported to Gaza
Turn Gaza into an open-air prison
annual attacks on gaza
But the Western media only reports on Hamas’s counterattack against Israel
You cannot expel three quarters of a million people in 1948
.
And not allow the repressed masses to return
and not expect the return of the repressed.
You cannot do this kind of thing and think there won't be any counterattack.
You cannot expect that not to lead to a reaction,
The reaction will be violent
.
Take a look at the statistics
You will find that Palestinians are really weak
The number of casualties on both sides is extremely asymmetrical.
Year 2014
Israeli shelling destroys 16,000 buildings
A quarter of Gaza's population is homeless
These attacks actually violated the U.S. Arms Export Control Act (AECA, 1976)
Weapons provided by the United States must be used for legitimate self-defense
Otherwise it is a war crime
This is why Taiwan cannot be compared to Israel
Taiwan buys weapons from the United States for legitimate self-defense
But Israel and the United States use weapons
is used to attack civilians on a large scale
The artillery firepower used by Israel is completely disproportionate compared to Hamas's attacks.
This proportionality is the core of international law in determining war crimes.
In 2014, due to Israel’s successive attacks on Gaza
Let people start to change their view of Israel
A 2016 poll showed that
46% of Americans support sanctions against Israel for its illegal colonial actions
After the Israeli-Palestinian war broke out last month
34 Harvard student groups sign a petition to support Palestine
Free Palestine!
Free free Palestine!
Anti-war demonstrations calling for ceasefires took place across the world
But the media often misleads viewers
Presenting the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as if it were an evenly matched confrontation
Covering up the high asymmetry in military power between the two sides
Israel has a strong military
There are also two countries, Britain and the United States, supporting us one after another.
Palestine has no sovereignty and no government
Not recognized as a nation yet
So instead of calling it the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Israeli-Palestinian war
Rather, it is more like the Israeli power colonizing the Palestinians.
Carry out genocide plan
After introducing the century-old history of conflict between Palestine and Israel
We'll find out that Britain is the culprit when it comes to this whole thing.
Violent repression gave rise to Zionism
After the war, the United States continued to support Israel
Through UN resolutions, the Six-Day War, the Lebanon War, the Oslo Accords
Let Israel expand its colonial territory step by step
Israel’s sense of being a persecuted person makes them unwilling to make compromises
The incompetence of the Palestinian leadership adds fuel to the fire
So is there a solution to this conflict?
historically
There are usually three modes of confrontation between colonists and indigenous peoples:
The first is genocide
Systematic extermination of local indigenous peoples
For example, when the United States was founded, the government ordered the extermination of indigenous peoples.
Let white people colonize the area
The second is to defeat the colonists
For example, in the Algerian War, Algeria successfully resisted France.
The third option is to end colonization after compromise between both parties
For example, South Africa and Ireland broke away from British colonial rule
What Israel is doing now is the first route
Relentless bombardment of Palestine
stage a genocide
But Israel and Palestine can also take the second or third route.
Like during the Algerian War and the Vietnam War
It was the colonized people who persuaded the people of the colonial mother country
You must oppose what your own government is doing
call for ceasefire
There are now a large number of people in the UK
Take to the streets every week to protest against the British government's export of weapons to Israel
Free Palestine!
Free Palestine!
This is the citizen of the colonial mother country
Helping the colonized through anti-war action
Even this month in many Asian countries
Japan, South Korea, and Indonesia all held large-scale demonstrations in support of Palestine.
Demonstrate a sense of global solidarity in support of the oppressed
If Israel and Palestine want to move towards peace
It depends on whether both parties can embody the progressive values ​​of respecting human rights and equality.
How ceasefire negotiations can create a democratic bi-ethnic state in Palestine
Stop treating Palestinians as second-class citizens and depriving them of their human rights
Let Palestinians enjoy the same rights as Jews
towards true peace