My name is Lisa Genova. I am an author 
and neuroscientist. My book is Remember:  
The Science of Memory and the Art of Forgetting.
Chapter one, how your memory works. So, I 
decided to take a break from my gig as a  
novelist to write this non-fiction book because 
I've been talking about Alzheimer's using Still  
Alice as a vehicle for that conversation for over 
a decade, trying to help folks understand what it  
feels like to have Alzheimer's and to recognize 
what those symptoms of dementia are. But what  
I found was over and over is that everybody 
over the age of 40, certainly over 50, 60, 70,  
they think that all kinds of forgetting mean 
they have Alzheimer's. So these folks would  
corner me in the ladies room or wait to the end 
of the book signing line and sort of confess to me  
what's going on in their lives and looking almost 
for a diagnosis in this very conversation. And so  
they'd say things to me like, "Well, I'm 
always forgetting names and if I don't  
write down what I have to do later, I won't 
remember to do it and I'm always walking into  
the kitchen and I don't know why I'm in there." 
And so these people are panicked and afraid and  
stressed out and really ashamed of these moments 
of forgetting which are actually totally normal.  
There are so many misconceptions with respect to 
memory. I think the biggest one in a nutshell has  
to do with the notion that people think 
that memory is supposed to be perfect.  
That our brains are supposed to remember 
everything that it encounters. And this  
simply isn't true. Our brains are not designed to 
remember people's names, to do something later,  
or to catalog everything we encounter. Even people 
who have phenomenal memories, people who are  
considered memory champions will forget the 
things that human brains forget. So for example,  
Akira Haraguchi, a retired engineer from 
Japan, decided that he wanted to memorize pi  
to as many digits as he could. And he was 69 
years old when he decided he wanted to do this.  
He memorized pi, a non-re repeating 
patternless number to over 111,000 digits  
because he wanted to. This is amazing. And he's 
not a mathematical savant. He's not a genius,  
but he has a healthy human brain. And because 
he knows techniques that pair storytelling and  
meaning and visualization with all of those 
numbers, he's able to do this magical thing.  
But he also forgot his wife's birthday one year 
and he can forget why he's in his living room.  
So we as human beings have to accept a certain 
amount of forgetting in our lives. So memory  
is not a war in your brain between remembering the 
good guy and forgetting the bad guy. I think that  
a lot of us have that conception of what memory 
is. Human memory is amazing and it's fallible.  
Neurologically speaking, what even is a 
memory? So memory is the constellation,  
the pattern of neural activity that represents 
the sights, sounds, smells, feelings, information,  
language that you experienced when you learned 
something in the first place reactivated as a  
neural circuit in your brain. So, your memory is 
not a video camera recording a constant stream of  
every sight and sound you encounter. There's no 
memory bank. I think a lot of people think that  
memories are stored in a place. And this is 
actually true for a lot of other things that  
go on in our brain. There's a physical location. 
There's a an address for where we process vision  
or language or movement. But memory is different. 
It's not in a file cabinet. It's not a DVD menu.  
Memory is located throughout your brain and all 
of the disperate places that are involved in  
what that memory consists of. So if I'm 
thinking of the sight and sound of Mickey Mouse,  
I'll have neurons in the back of my head. That's 
my occipital cortex. My visual cortex will be  
activated. Those represent what Mickey Mouse looks 
like. But the sound of Mickey Mouse is located  
somewhere else. That's in my auditory cortex. 
And so the circuit, the memory will involve  
the activation of neurons in those very different 
places. But that's the memory of what Mickey Mouse  
looks and sounds like for me. Your hippocampus is 
your memory weaver. This is the part of your brain  
that binds all of those disperate elements of what 
will become a singular pattern of neural activity,  
what will become a memory. So it links together 
the sights, the sounds, the smells, the feelings,  
the language, the information so that they become 
connected into a neural circuit. The hippocampus  
is a part of your brain that is essential for the 
formation of any new memories that you will later  
consciously be able to retrieve. And when you 
are recalling a memory, when you are recognizing  
something that you know, your brain is being 
activated in a similar manner to what it was  
when you actually experienced the information or 
learned the information in the first place. So the  
pattern of neural activity is based on what you 
paid attention to and learned in the first place.  
It will be recalled again. It will be reactivated. 
So, how do we know where memory is in the brain?  
How do we know that it's activated really all 
over your brain? We know this through brain  
imaging studies, through functional MRI studies. 
So, if I were to put you in a brain scanner  
and I were to show you while you're in there the 
sight and sound of Mickey Mouse and your brain  
is lighting up in specific areas of your brain, I 
take the image away and then I ask you to remember  
maybe five minutes later, ask you to remember that 
picture. The neuroiming will light up in different  
parts of your brain at first while it's searching. 
And then when you say, "I've got it." Your brain  
activity has landed on the exact same places 
in your brain that were lit up and activated  
when you were actually looking at the photo. So 
there are four basic steps in creating a memory.  
The first is called encoding. This means 
that your brain takes all of the sights,  
the sounds, the smells, the tastes, the feelings, 
the information of what you learned or experienced  
and translates that into neurological language. 
The second step is called consolidation. Here,  
your brain links together all of the previously 
unrelated neural activity and connects them into  
a pattern of associated connections, a sort 
of neural circuit that can live for decades.  
The third step is storage. Your brain locks in 
this information by making enduring longlasting  
changes in your neural architecture. 
Changes in neuroanatomy and neurochemistry  
that are longlasting and persist long after you 
first learned or experienced the information.  
The last step is retrieval. So you got the 
information in. To remember it, you want to  
get the information out. So this means you can 
now activate this neural circuit. And so you can  
recall, revisit, reminisce, know something 
that happened or that you learned before.
So there are three kinds of long-term memory. 
One is called episodic. This is your memory for  
the stuff that happened. This is the story of your 
life. This is oh remember when there is semantic.  
This is the stuff you know. Semantic memories are 
the facts and data, the information you learned  
in school, your autobiographical information. 
So, anytime you fill out a form, name, address,  
birth date, that's semantic memory. The third 
kind is called muscle memory. It's a little bit  
of a misnomer. Muscle memory doesn't live in your 
muscles. It lives in your brain. Muscle memory is  
the memorized choreography, the procedure for how 
to do things. So this actually lives in a part of  
your brain called the motor cortex. That part of 
your brain tells all of the voluntary muscles in  
your body what to do. So with concentrated focused 
practice and repetition, you can memorize and  
therefore know uh for the rest of your life 
how to brush your teeth, how to ride a bike,  
how to swing a golf club, all of the things 
that we know how to do, our u muscle memories.  
So, what do our brains remember and what do they 
forget? Our human brains are pretty phenomenal  
at remembering what is meaningful, emotional, 
surprising or new, and what's repeated.  
They're pretty bad at remembering what's same old, 
same old, been there, done that, not emotional,  
not repeated. Our brains are also great at 
remembering things that are visual and where  
those things are in space. So evolutionarily, you 
can imagine that it was really important for our  
survival for us to remember where the food is, 
where safety is, where the predators live. And so  
our brains are really keyed into visual, spatial, 
what's meaningful. So we don't just remember  
where everything is. We remember where these 
things are that are important to our survival.  
Things that are emotional tend to be meaningful 
to us. So those two elements t are pretty  
tied together. So if if something's emotionally 
neutral, it's probably not that meaningful to me  
and I don't remember it. If it's highly emotional 
in some way, whether that's good or bad,  
joyful, I'm in love, grief, anger, our 
brains remember what we pay attention to.  
This isn't just about the facts and information 
and the sights and sounds of things that happened.  
It's also about your outlook. So this is 
where practices in gratitude might come into  
what do you remember the story of your life. 
Do you pay attention to the moments of joy  
and abundance and wonder and awe and love? And so 
if you do those memories will populate your life  
story. Or are you a pessimist? Are you focusing 
on what hasn't happened for you? the scarcity,  
the injustices. If that's what you focus on, your 
memories will be populated with the doom and gloom  
and the lack. One of my favorite studies with 
respect to meaning and memory has to do with taxi  
drivers. They gave seasoned taxi drivers and new 
taxi drivers a list of street names to memorize.  
If the street names were listed in the order 
that they can be driven, the seasoned taxi  
drivers did great. They were able to recall 
something close to 90% of the words on the list,  
whereas the newbie taxi drivers didn't do so 
well, significantly less. If however those street  
names were listed in random order, one street 
name doesn't lead geographically to the next,  
the seasoned taxi drivers lost their 
memory advantage because the the names  
of the streets now had no meaning one to the 
next. They were basically in meaningless order.  
The seasoned taxi drivers did just as poorly 
as the newbie taxi drivers. So meaning matters  
when it comes to memory. Meaning is 
king. So how accurate are our memories?  
It depends on which kind of memory we're talking 
about. So if we're talking about semantic memory,  
this is the memory for the stuff you learned, the 
stuff you know, that's pretty stable and accurate.  
So for example, if you learned that 6 * 6 is 
36 when you were in the third grade, you're  
not going to suddenly misremember that decades 
later as 6 * 6 is 75. that's not going to happen.  
Muscle memory is similar, similarly stable over 
time. So this is where the expression just like  
riding a bike comes in, right? So if you learn to 
brush your teeth or ride a bike or how to type,  
you're not going to forget how to do those things. 
And in fact, you can not ride a bike for decades  
and then get back on the bike and your brain will 
remember the choreography. You'll get on the bike  
and ride. Episodic memory is a little different. 
So again, episodic memory is your memory for the  
stuff that happened. That's a little strange. It 
turns out that every time we recall a memory for  
something that happened, we have the opportunity 
to change it. Often not consciously. When we  
recall a memory for something that happened, we 
might add a detail. We might leave a detail out.  
If somebody else experienced the same event, they 
might add some information that we agree with. And  
so we'll add that to our memory. Um maybe it's 
decades later and we're a we're an adult and  
the memories from childhood and we've had time to 
accumulate wisdom and a different perspective and  
we've maybe forgiven the the culprit in 
that event or we have a different world view  
and so we shape it a little differently. Our 
our mood and and our outlook is different today  
than it was when you were younger. We're also 
as human beings naturalb born storytellers.  
So, if there are pieces of information missing in 
my story or if there's a way I can embellish and  
make the story better, make it sound good, 
give it a nice beginning, middle, and end,  
I might supply that, not knowing that I'm 
consciously lying. I'm just providing information  
that makes sense to tell you the story of what 
happened. Here's the weird thing that happens.  
If we've revised the memory for what happened in 
any way whatsoever when we recall it, we store  
this version, this 2.0 version of the memory over 
the old version in our brain. So it overwrites  
the original. It's like hitting save in Microsoft 
Word. So you can imagine that with each retelling,  
the memory for what happened has the possibility 
of drifting further and further away from what you  
actually paid attention to. and and store it as 
memory to begin with. Sort of like the telephone  
game, right? So with each telling it might change 
a little bit and then I will store that story in  
my brain as if it were the memory that the the 
slice of reality that I actually experienced. I  
won't actually know what really happened and what 
didn't happen. And this is called confabulation.  
So there's another kind of memory called 
prospective memory. This is your memory  
for your future you. This is your brain's to-do 
list. This is your, oh, sometime in the future  
I need to remember to do the following. So, 
they're things like pick up the dry cleaning,  
pay the bills. Oh, I need to remember to call 
my mother later. Our brains are not designed  
to do this. Perspective memory is fraught with 
failure. In fact, I actually think of it as a  
kind of forgetting rather than a kind of memory. 
So, here's what happens with perspective memory.  
You're asking your brain to remember something at 
a future time and place to do something. Unless  
the proper cue is there and available for you 
to notice at the right time in the right place,  
you will forget to do this. So, with practice, 
we can get good at remembering to do something at  
certain times of day. So, a lot of us are really 
good at remembering to brush our teeth before we  
go to bed because we've done this every night of 
our lives. For those of you who've raised kids,  
you know that this is not an ingrained memory 
yet because how many nights of your life do  
you tell your kids, "Go brush your teeth. Go 
brush your teeth." So, at some point though, we  
remember to do this without any aids or any help. 
Here's something interesting. If you're someone  
who takes medication at night, a great way to 
remember to take your medication is to pair this  
with a habit that you already have at that time 
of day. So, if you leave your heart medication out  
next to your toothbrush, then you will see that 
when you're brushing your teeth and know that it's  
the time of day to do that. If, however, you leave 
your heart medication in the cabinet out of sight,  
you will probably forget to take your 
heart medication unless you write it down.  
So many people come up to me so worried, saying, 
"If I don't write what I need to do later down,  
I'm going to forget to do it. That's 
got to mean I'm getting Alzheimer's."  
And I tell all of them, "No, it's your perspective 
memory. It's terrible. It's not cheating to write  
it down. It's actually good practice." And 
here's the example that really brings it  
home for people where they realize that they don't 
have weak memories and they don't have a failing  
memory and they don't have the early signs of 
Alzheimer's with respect to perspective memory.  
Airline pilots do not rely on their brains 
and their perspective memories to remember to  
lower the wheels before landing the plane. They 
outsource the job to a to-do list, a checklist.  
This is why we should all write it down. Put it 
in your phones. Put it in your calendar alerts.  
Make to-do lists. This is not a sign 
of weakness. This is good practice.  
Surgeons use checklists so they won't forget 
the surgical instruments from the bodies of  
the patients before they sew these patients up. 
Prior to the checklist, these very intelligent,  
smart, trained surgeons would regularly forget 
and leave surgical instruments in the bodies of  
their patients and sew them up. If you want to 
remember to pick up milk at the grocery store,  
write it down. For all of these memories, 
they benefit from repetition. The more we  
repeat a memory, the stronger it will be and 
the more likely we'll be able to retrieve it.  
So with respect to semantic memories, these are 
the memories for information and facts. So if  
you're studying for a test or a presentation, 
it will benefit from a lot of rehearsal. Same  
goes for muscle memory. If you're trying to learn 
to play a piece on the piano or a tennis serve,  
the saying practice makes perfect really does 
hold true here. The more you do it, the more  
those neural circuits will have a chance to become 
consolidated and strengthened and then become a  
memory where you can simply serve the tennis 
ball without having to think about this step,  
this step, this step, this step. all completely 
separate unlin steps become a linked neural  
circuit once you've got it memorized. So memory 
is phenomenal, but it's also a bit of a dunce.  
It's going to remember details from 50 years ago 
and it will forget what you had for lunch last  
week. You might remember the Hamlet saliloquy you 
memorized in 10th grade, but you can't remember  
who texted you yesterday. So, your memory 
is both everything and nothing in some ways.
Chapter 2. Eight techniques to enhance your 
memory. There are things that we can do  
to be less afraid, less panicked, have a 
better relationship with our memory today.
The first essential ingredient in creating a 
memory that's going to last longer than this  
present moment is attention. If I don't give 
something my attention, my brain can't form  
a memory of it. So, when I can't find my keys 
or my phone or my glasses or I can't remember  
where I parked my car, a lot of people will 
come to me with those kinds of examples and  
think that they're getting Alzheimer's or that 
their memory is terrible. And I sort of smile  
to myself and then let them know, I'd bet pretty 
much everything I've got that this isn't a symptom  
of memory loss at all. Your memory was never even 
involved here. This is a symptom of distraction.  
If I put my glasses down and don't give it a 
moment's attention to notice where I've put this,  
my brain can't form a memory of where I've 
put my glasses. So 10 minutes later when I'm  
looking for them, I can't remember where they are 
because I never formed that memory to begin with.  
Here's a great example that I love that I think 
we can all relate to. Have you ever been driving  
a stretch of road that's familiar? a a 
regular route to work, a regular commute. So,  
the sights and sounds are stuff you already know. 
Probably not paying attention to them anymore.  
You're driving this stretch of road and maybe 
10, 20 minutes go by and suddenly you think,  
"Oh my god, I don't remember any of the 
trip. Where am I? How did I get this far?"  
I regularly cross the Sagamore Bridge in 
Massachusetts and this is a really big  
fourlane structure. And I will very often 
be 10, 20 miles past this bridge and have  
suddenly suddenly wonder where am I and then 
realizing I'm over the bridge and I have no memory  
of having gone over it. No memory of crossing this 
fourlane colossal structure. My eyes were open.  
My brain saw the bridge. I drove over it. My 
muscle memory did exactly what it's supposed to  
do driving the car safely. But I have no conscious 
memory of having driven over a bridge only 10  
minutes ago. By the way, I'm not asking my brain 
to remember something from childhood decades ago.  
I can't remember it because the bridge is 
familiar and we don't really pay attention  
to what's familiar and same old same old. I was 
probably listening to an audio book or lost in  
thought. So my attention was pulled elsewhere. 
And so the experience of driving over that bridge  
slipped out of my brain within seconds. gone 
without a trace, not consolidated into memory.  
So, interestingly, caffeine is actually good for 
memory because caffeine increases your attention.  
And by having an enhanced ability to attend, I 
now can have an enhanced ability to remember. So,  
anything that's an attention booster 
is going to be a memory booster.  
But you guys want to be careful of when you 
have that last dose of caffeine because caffeine  
interferes with a neurom modulator called a 
denisonin. A denisonin causes you to become  
drowsy. It's that step that's necessary for you to 
fall asleep. Caffeine interferes with a denisonin.  
The halflife of caffeine is five hours. Which 
means that five hours after I've had my latte,  
half the amount of caffeine is still in my brain 
and body. So if I have a cappuccino at 700 p.m.  
at midnight, I'm still going to have about 32 
milligrams of caffeine buzzing around in my brain,  
interfering with the denisonin and maybe 
interfering with my ability to fall asleep.  
And now we know that sleep is super important 
for forming memories because the hippocampus  
consolidates memories while we sleep. So we don't 
want to offset the benefit we get from attention  
boosting with losing sleep tonight. So if you're, 
you know, if you're having trouble falling asleep  
at night, look at where your caffeine is 
during the day and maybe back it up a bit.  
So caffeine's good for memory. You just want to 
be careful that it's not compromising your sleep.  
Repeating memories makes them stronger. 
The more we repeat, the more we practice,  
the more we rehearse a memory, we are 
strengthening those neural connections,  
making that neural circuit stronger 
and more likely to be fully retrieved.  
One of the ways that we can repeat a memory is by 
writing it down. So if I've experienced a certain  
number of things today and I keep a journal and 
I write some of these down at the end of the day,  
what I've chosen to write down will become a 
stronger, more reinforced memory in my brain.  
I will also have the opportunity to revisit that 
memory by reading it later. So the memories that  
represent what I wrote down will become stronger, 
but anything I've left out might actually be  
weakened by this because I've chosen a certain 
slice of reality to capture in pen and paper.  
I've now focused on that and I am reinforcing and 
reactivating those neurons. The one the neurons  
that I've left out, the experiences from that day 
that I did not include will probably be forgotten.  
So, we know that what you repeat gets remembered 
better. So, we remember what is repeated over  
and over again. But there's nuance here. If 
I just hammer the information over and over  
and over into my brain, I might remember it. But 
what's better is if I space that out over time.  
So, for example, let's say I have an exam in one 
week and I'm going to study for seven hours. I can  
study for seven hours the day before the exam or 
I could study for one hour every day that week.  
Turns out I will remember the information far 
better if I space it out one hour a week rather  
than seven hours the night before. Another way 
to better remember this information has to do  
with self- testing. So again, I can hammer and 
hammer the information into my brain and I might  
remember it or I can flip it and also try to 
retrieve the information as I'm learning it.  
Because here's what happens. If I'm trying to 
consolidate something into memory and I'm only  
putting the information in, I'm traveling 
one way on the neurons. If I then try to  
recall the information, I'm pulling the 
information out. Now I'm going the other way. this  
this birectional highway of information in the 
memory really helps strengthen that circuit far  
more than just passively reading the information. 
So this is like flashc cards folks, right? So  
instead of just reading the list of vocabulary 
words over and over again, read the word and see  
if you can come up with the answer. Flip it over. 
Oh, okay. You'll learn faster and better that way.  
With respect to memory, acute stress isn't bad 
for memory, but there are some nuances here.  
So, when you're studying for a test or 
for a presentation that you have to give,  
the kind of memory that you're trying to 
create and then retrieve is semantic memory.  
This is the memory for facts and information, the 
stuff you know. And stress will have an impact  
on your ability to both form those memories and 
retrieve them. So, a certain amount of stress is  
good for both situations, for getting the memory 
into your brain and retrieving it out, but too  
much will put you in a state of overwhelm. I think 
we've all experienced this. So, have you ever  
studied for an exam and you know the information 
cold? You got it. And then you go in for the test,  
but you're really stressed because you really 
want to get an A and you're super nervous.  
You're too nervous. You're too stressed and you 
you choke. You can't remember what you know.  
you can't retrieve the information and you jammed 
up because you're too stressed. So, a certain  
amount is great and optimal for remembering, 
but too much is going to put you in overwhelm  
and cause you to draw a blank. This is also true 
for muscle memory. So, if you're a baseball player  
and you're up at bat and the count is three and 
two and it's bottom of the ninth and the score is  
tied and the bases are loaded, but maybe you could 
tolerate a lot of stress and you need that. Maybe  
you're at the top of that inverted U and that's 
your optimal amount of stress and it's going to  
mobilize your body to react and you're going to 
be able to execute the memory of how to swing a  
baseball bat perfectly and you hit a home run. But 
maybe that situation is way too stressful for you  
and it puts you into overwhelm. Too much stress 
is going to cause you to not be able to retrieve  
the memory of how to hit a baseball perfectly. 
Now you're in your head and you're thinking  
about do this, adjust that. Oh, no, no, 
no. You're gonna you're gonna strike out.  
We also want to get enough sleep. So, you don't 
want to pull an allnighter. Your hippocampus  
consolidates the information you're learning into 
a lasting memory that you can consciously retrieve  
while you sleep. So, if you don't get 
a good night's sleep before the exam,  
your hippocampus has not had a chance to do its 
job. And so you'll be spilling out information  
that isn't really locked into your brain in a 
great way. And so you'll either not do a great  
job on that test or maybe you'll pull it off. But 
if this is information you care to know later,  
you're probably not going to because it didn't 
have a chance to form into a lasting memory.  
Context also matters. So it turns out that 
memories are most robustly and fully and  
confidently retrieved if the context of 
retrieval matches the context that was  
there when we formed the memory in the 
first place. So what does that mean?  
If I'm studying for a test and I'm listening 
to Mozart while eating sour patch gummy bears  
and I've got a lavender scented candle and I'm 
drinking mocha frappuccinos. I am best served  
to recall that information on test day if I'm 
eating sour gummies, maybe listening to Mozart,  
got some lavender lotion on, and sipping on a 
mocha frappuccino. The context will match what  
was available when I was learning it and can serve 
as one of the cues to trigger the neural circuit,  
right? Because those things were available while I 
was learning. So, anything that while I'm learning  
those vocabulary words, I'm also maybe pulling in 
some of the sights, the sounds, the tastes, the  
feelings, the things going on around and in me. 
So, am I caffeinated while I learn something? Am I  
depressed while I'm learning something? Am I tired 
while I'm learning something? So, I won't want to  
take that test listening to Eminem, snacking on 
uh, you know, kale chips and, you know, drinking  
lemonade. You want to match the conditions that 
were available while you were learning something  
when you want to retrieve it and that will 
give you the best opportunity to recall it.  
So, interestingly, people with the best 
imaginations probably have the best memories  
and here's why. So, again, we remember what's 
meaningful, surprising, emotional, um, visual.  
And so if you can be imaginative, if 
you can be creative imaginatively,  
you are more likely to attach associations to 
what you're trying to remember. That will help you  
remember what you're trying to know 
and recall. Let me give you an example.  
So let's say I'm not going to rely on 
my perspective memory to buy milk later  
today at the grocery store because perspective 
memory is terrible. And like the airline pilots,  
I know I should outsource the job and write it 
down. Let's say I'm not going to write it down. I  
don't have a pen and paper ready and I don't have 
my phone and I'm not going to write it down. How  
might I remember to buy milk later? Well, rather 
than just try and keep it in there on its own,  
what if I attach associations to it? So, what 
if I can come up with a really imaginative way  
to remember milk? So, here's what I could 
do. I could picture Dwayne the Rock Johnson  
milking a cow on my kitchen table. I picked a 
room in a place that my brain knows really well.  
Your brain loves where things are. So, I've just 
given it a very strangely imagined scenario that  
is attached to the thing I need to buy later. So 
now when I go to the store to buy milk, oh, that's  
so easy to remember now. And I bet every time you 
buy a milk now, you'll remember this, too. So,  
our brains are not designed to remember people's 
names. They're actually not designed to remember  
pronouns. So, names, movie titles, book titles, 
cities. If you notice that these go missing  
regularly on you and you're like, "Oh, what's 
the name of the actor in that movie? What's the  
name of that book?" It's totally normal. Think of 
people's names. These are abstract concepts. They  
live in neurological culde-sacs in your brain. 
Ultimately, there's only one way in to that house  
that lives at the end of that street. There's no 
other way to get there. Whereas common nouns live  
in the intersection of Main Street, USA, thousands 
of ways in and out, easy to grab. But so, say  
you're trying to remember someone's name. It's not 
impossible. We can do this, but it's tougher. So,  
can we supply more associations to the person's 
name to give us a chance? So in psychology, this  
is called the Baker Baker paradox. If I'm trying 
to remember your name and your name is Mr. Baker,  
that's really tough for me to remember. Abstract 
concept. But if I were asked to remember the  
word baker, what can go on in my brain is I can 
picture a baker. I can picture someone wearing  
an apron and he's got flour on his face and he's 
got a spatula in his hand and oh, I remember the  
bakery I used to love as a kid and we used to get 
danishes there on Sundays. So now I've got all of  
these associations in my brain attaching to that 
word baker. It gives me a chance to hook into it.  
So if I'm meeting someone, I want there are 
a number of things I can do. I can try to  
create associations that go along with their name. 
This person's name reminds me of someone I know.  
Um I can say their name over and over again. 
We remember what is repeated. So if you say,  
"Hi, my name is Sarah." and I say, "Sarah, nice 
to meet you." So now I've heard the name twice.  
Repeat the name without sounding creepy and you 
will give your brain a better chance to remember  
it. But add add associations if you can. So if you 
meet a guy named Mr. Baker, add the associations.  
Think of apple pie and smell it and he you know, 
picture him wearing that apron with some some  
flower on his face and it will help you associate 
it. And then later on after you've gone home,  
you can then rehearse it a bit and say, "What was 
the name of that guy I met?" And hopefully you  
come up with this name. And now you've done this 
thing I've talked about with self- testing, which  
is that you've given those neurons even more of 
a chance to become reactivated and strengthened.  
So technology is kind of interesting to me because 
I think it wields a double-edged sword. So, on the  
one hand, we're we live pretty distracted lives 
today. We're pulled in so many directions between  
the text alerts and the emails and the Snapchat 
and Instagram and the constantly scrolling feeds  
and and responding to emails. It's a lot. And 
if we're distracted, we can't pay attention.  
If I can't pay attention, I can't make new 
memories. So, that's a downside. Um, you know, if  
I want to have a lot of memories for what happened 
in my life, I need to be available to what's  
happening. And so, if I'm always on my phone and 
I'm looking down, my best friend from kindergarten  
might be in the line in Starbucks in front of me 
and I won't notice and have a chance to have that  
happy reunion because I'm my attention and my head 
is buried in my phone. There's definitely downside  
to social media with respect to mood disorders 
and bullying and self-image and all of that.  
Yet, there's a lot of upside as well. So, with 
respect to technology today, life is an open book  
test. I don't have to remember everything. If I 
can't remember the name of an actor in a movie,  
I can Google it. A lot of people are worried that 
if they look up the names that go missing, that  
are on the tip of their tongue. Oh, what's the 
name of that actor? They worry if they Google it  
that they're cheating, that they're going to give 
themselves digital amnesia and make their memories  
weaker. Looking up a word, googling a word 
that's on the tip of your tongue isn't cheating.  
It will not cause digital amnesia. It will not 
make your memory weaker in any way. Likewise,  
suffering through the mental pain of trying to 
come up with the word on your own. You're like,  
"Oh, I know it begins with J. Hold on, wait, what 
is it?" And you can't come up with it for hours.  
Probably will pop into consciousness before bed, 
but that's another story. Um, doesn't make your  
memory any stronger. We think that we need to 
come up with it on our own or we're cheating.  
And this just isn't so. So, life is now an 
open book test, folks. We can Google anything  
that we can't remember in a moment's notice and 
then use that information to continue thinking,  
to continue the conversation, to learn more. 
So, I don't need to know all the details of  
the Pelpeneisian War. I can look it up and 
use that information to think about things  
and make connections and have conversations 
and and live a fuller life. In some ways,  
social media, plenty of downside. On the upside, 
your chronology of what happened can be captured  
there quite nicely. Somewhat like a photo album, 
but even more in depth because now I've got  
the photos with the captions. I can have people 
tagged. I can have be geo tagged for the location.  
Um, all of that information, the comments can be 
a rich trigger, an association, a cue that can  
remind me of that event and day in my life. So, 
in going through your profile page on Facebook  
or Instagram, it's almost like a, you know, the 
analog would be a photo album. It's a nice way  
of this visual diary of revisiting and reinforcing 
and strengthening your memories for what happened.  
What I would love for you to take away from all 
of this is that your memory is amazing. It is  
limitless in what it's capable of remembering if 
you supply it with the right kind of information.  
if you supply it with the right kind of tools 
and associations. And it's wildly imperfect. And  
that's just the price of owning a human brain. 
Forgetting is a normal part of being human.
Chapter 3. How to protect your brain from 
Alzheimer's. Alzheimer's begins with a protein  
called amaloid beta. either too much is made or 
not enough is cleared away. And if that happens,  
it's a sticky protein. It'll bind to itself and 
form amalloid plaques. And if enough amalloid  
plaques accumulate in your brain at some point 
reaches a tipping point, which then triggers a  
molecular cascade that causes neuropibrillary 
tangles, neuroinflammation, cell death,  
and all of the symptoms that we classically know 
of as Alzheimer's. Prior to that tipping point,  
you're symptom free. You're not diagnosed with 
Alzheimer's yet. It's sort of like having high  
cholesterol and heart disease, right? If you have 
high cholesterol, it doesn't mean you're going  
to have a heart attack. It means that you're 
below that level. So, below the tipping point,  
your symptoms of forgetting are all normal. These 
are the why did I come in this room? Where did I  
put my phone? Where did I park my car? Oh, what's 
his name? I need to remember to buy something  
later and I forgot. That's totally normal. 
After the tipping point, the glitches in memory,  
formation, and retrieval are different. So, it's 
normal to forget the actor who played Tony Soprano  
in the HBO series The Sopranos. Can't remember 
that guy's name. What is it? It's not normal  
to forget a lot of words all day long and 
common words. So now, not just proper nouns,  
but oh, what's the the name of that thing I use to 
write with? The thing to write with. What's that  
pen? Yes. If those kinds of words go missing a 
dozen times a day, that's not normal forgetting.  
It might not be Alzheimer's. There are 
lots of reasons why you could be forgetting  
that are actually quite treatable, such as a B12 
deficiency, chronic sleep deprivation, depression.  
Um, but it's something that can be addressed. 
Another difference between normal forgetting and  
forgetting due to Alzheimer's is though, you 
know, where did I put my So, a lot of people  
will tell me, you know, I went to the mall and 
I shopped for only an hour and then I came out  
of the mall into the garage and I couldn't 
remember where I parked my car and they're  
freaked out and stressed out and panicked and 
worried that this is a symptom of Alzheimer's. And  
here's how you can tell the difference. If you get 
out into that garage and are you can't remember if  
you parked on level three or level four. I think 
it was three, but maybe it was four. You probably  
didn't pay attention to where you parked your car. 
And you can't form a consciously held retrievable  
memory unless you paid attention. Probably zipped 
off into that mall. You were texting, you were  
talking, you were busy doing the next thing. And 
that's probably why you don't remember if it's  
on three or four. If you have Alzheimer's, it's 
different. You get to that garage and you think,  
"I don't remember how I got here." Or you're 
looking at your car, you're standing right in  
front of it and you don't recognize it as 
yours. So, the distinction is very clear.  
Alzheimer's begins in your hippocampus. So, this 
accumulation of amaloid plaques, the first place  
it begins in your brain is the very place in your 
brain that's responsible for forming new memories.  
So, the very first symptoms of Alzheimer's 
will be not remembering what someone said a  
few minutes ago, repeating yourself over and over 
because you don't remember what you just said,  
not remembering what happened earlier today, not 
remembering really well what happened last week,  
even if it was really emotional, meaningful, 
new, surprising, or repeated. The things that  
you would normally remember from last 
week won't get consolidated because your  
hippocampus is under attack. Alzheimer's will 
move. It doesn't just stay in your hippocampus.  
It invades your frontal lobe, so you'll have 
problems with problem solving, decision making,  
thinking. It invades parts of your brain that have 
to do with where things are in space, so you might  
get lost in the neighborhood you've lived in your 
whole life. It will invade the parts of your brain  
that have to do with language, so you'll start 
having trouble coming up with words more and more.  
the disease will move on to your lyic system and 
cause disregulation in mood and emotion. So you'll  
see deregulation and disinhibition with respect 
to rage and grief and lust. So your grandfather  
who might have always been very even killed and 
gentle is suddenly very emotionally violent or has  
bursts of rage. For 98% of us, Alzheimer's is not 
our brain's destiny. So, our risk of developing  
Alzheimer's is a combination of the genes we've 
inherited from mom and dad and how we live.  
So, there's your genetic predisposition. Maybe 
you have some increased likelihood of developing  
Alzheimer's based on those genes. Maybe you have 
some resistance against Alzheimer's based on  
those genes. But then there's how we live and that 
really does play a huge role in whether or not our  
amaloid plaques will reach that tipping point and 
will begin becoming symptomatic for Alzheimer's.  
So what are the lifestyle factors that influence 
our brain health with respect to Alzheimer's?  
sleep, diet, exercise, stress, and learning 
new things. So, these aren't particularly sexy,  
but they work. And I think understanding why they 
work can help us actually implement them. I think  
a lot of us just want the pill. People come up 
to me all the time, "What's the supplement? What  
can I take that will prevent Alzheimer's?" The 
good news is a lot of these lifestyle factors  
work as well as any pill that we might develop for 
preventing Alzheimer's. We just have to do them.  
So sleep is not a state of doing nothing 
where you're unconscious and it's a waste  
of time. It's not, oh, I'll sleep when I'm dead. 
You're very biologically busy while you sleep.  
And there are a number of things that 
are going on in your brain while you  
sleep with respect to memory that are very 
important. So let's go over three of them.  
Number one, while you sleep, your hippocampus 
is busy consolidating the memories that you paid  
attention to and cared about that were meaningful. 
The stuff that happened, the stuff you learn today  
are being formed into a lasting enduring 
neurological memory by your hippocampus  
while you sleep. So what happens if you don't 
get enough sleep? Your hippocampus might not  
have had enough time to do the job. And so your 
memories from what happened yesterday and the  
stuff you learned yesterday might not be fully 
formed today or they might not be formed at all.  
Number two, if I got a horrible night's sleep last 
night, I'm going to wake up today and my frontal  
lobe is going to have a hard time dragging itself 
to its day job. And one of its most important jobs  
is paying attention. So, we've all experienced 
this, right? If you have a terrible night's sleep,  
you have a really hard time paying attention to 
what people are saying and what's going on today.  
And if I can't pay attention to what's going on 
today, what am I not going to be able to do well  
today? form new memories. So, by not getting 
a good night's sleep last night, I'm walking  
around today with a form of amnesia. Really, 
the third thing has to do with Alzheimer's.  
While you sleep, there are cells in your brain 
called gleal cells. These are the janitors of your  
brain. It's the sewage and sanitation department. 
They get really busy clearing away all of the  
metabolic debris that accumulated in your brain 
while you were in the business of being awake.  
And one of the things it critically clears away 
is amaloid beta. So if you don't get enough sleep,  
the gal cells won't have enough time to do 
their jobs and you'll wake up in the morning  
with some extra amaloid in your brain that wasn't 
cleared away. If this happens over decades, right,  
15 to 20 years of amaloid plaque accumulation. 
If you're chronically sleepd deprived,  
you are increasing your risk of developing 
Alzheimer's by reaching that tipping point. diet.  
There have been many really good longitudinal 
studies that have shown that being on a  
Mediterranean or mine diet can reduce your risk of 
Alzheimer's from anywhere from a third to a half.  
That's significant, folks. So, what does this 
mean? This means eating the rainbow. The green  
leafy vegetables, the brightly colored fruits and 
berries, fatty fishes, nuts, beans, olive oils.  
That's the food that's going to support your 
brain health and help you prevent Alzheimer's.  
Exercise. Again, we've got a lot of studies now 
and they all show consistently the same thing.  
exercise, specifically aerobic exercise. We're 
talking a brisk walk for 30 minutes four to five  
times a week is enough to decrease your amaloid 
plaque levels and reduce your risk of developing  
Alzheimer's by again anywhere to a third to a 
half. Again, this is significant. If I offered you  
a pill that would reduce your risk of Alzheimer's 
by 50%, you'd take it. So, we want to get up and  
move around. So stress is meant to be an acute 
quick on andoff phenomenon. So evolutionarily we  
experience some sort of threat or danger or crisis 
an emergency and the stress response is activated  
in our brains and bodies. And so what does that 
mean? It means that your brain releases hormones  
that release stress hormones from your adrenal 
glands. The two workhorse stress hormones are  
adrenaline and cortisol. These hormones mobilize 
your brain and body to respond, to fight, to flee,  
to react quickly, not to think. Your frontal lobe 
actually shuts down in when you're in stress,  
fight or flight. You don't want to sort of 
weigh the pros and cons of what I should do.  
Let me take time to think about that. No, this 
is a reactive quick go do something right now.  
But then it's also a quick off. So cortisol 
actually acts on receptors back in your brain to  
flip the switch and turn the whole thing off. 
It's a nice neat negative feedback loop. So  
cortisol and adrenaline levels will then be 
restored and you will go back to normal. So  
for example, getting out of bed in the morning 
activates the stress response a little bit. A  
little bit of cortisol first thing in 
the morning just to get up out of bed.  
If you have to hit the brakes in your car, if 
the car in front of you stops short to get ready  
for that Zoom presentation, you want a certain 
amount of alertness, readiness, mobilizing you,  
that's the acute stress response. And that can 
be good for memory. That can help you create new  
memories for stuff that happened. There's a bit of 
an inverted U to this in terms of the curve. So,  
a little bit of stress will help. There's an 
optimal amount of acute stress that varies  
person to person for remembering things best and 
performing things best. Again, muscle memories are  
a kind of memory. So, for some baseball players, 
if they're up at bat and the count's three and  
two and the bases are loaded and it's bottom of 
the ninth, that's a that level of stress is great  
for them. They're going to hit the ball. But for 
another player, that's too much. He's in overwhelm  
and he's going to strike out. though acutely an 
acute stress is can be good for memory to a point.  
What happens if we're chronically stressed? 
Well, again, we're not talking about lions in  
in the savannah. Mostly, we're talking about 
psychological stress here today. Our thoughts  
are our predators. The top three psychological 
stressors are social isolation, uncertainty,  
and a perceived lack of control. A lot of us tick 
all of these boxes all the time. So, what happens  
in your brain and body if you're exposed to 
chronic, unrelenting stress, unmanaged stress, and  
how does that affect your memory? Under chronic 
stress, the feedback loop can break. The receptors  
in your brain that normally bind to cortisol 
to shut everything off can become downregulated  
or desensitized. And so your body will just keep 
dumping adrenaline and cortisol and it can't shut  
off. This is bad for memory. It it will keep you 
in a constant state of fight or flight. You will  
constantly feel like you're breathing really 
rapidly. You're anxious and worried and you  
are actually shrinking your hippocampus. The 
part of your brain that's essential for forming  
all of your consciously held memories is 
going to be smaller. you're going to have less  
of a structure available to do that job. You will 
be inhibiting neurogenesis, which is the birth of  
new neurons in your hippocampus. So, you will have 
a harder time creating new memories. You will have  
a harder time retrieving the stuff you already 
know. And you're shrinking your hippocampus, which  
can put it at risk for developing Alzheimer's in 
the future. The very good news about all of this,  
because I probably just scared everyone, is that 
there are things that we can do to combat stress.  
This is where things like yoga, meditation, 
mindfulness, and exercise come into play.  
All of these have been shown through MRI studies, 
brain imaging studies to restore the size of  
people's hippocampus who have been chronically 
stressed. And so, a quick word on meditation.  
A lot of people are intimidated by meditation. 
They sort of know that this is probably good for  
them in lots of ways. Um, but maybe don't know how 
to do it. Think that that they have to do it for  
at least 30 minutes. They don't have the time. I 
don't know how to turn off my thoughts. Here's a  
9-second meditation I love to show people because 
you can do this at any point in your day to help  
restore your cortisol levels and to help save your 
hippocampus and your ability to remember. Close  
your eyes if you can. If you're in the middle 
of a Zoom meeting or driving your car, don't.  
But if you can close your eyes, it's helpful. 
Breathe in through your nose to the count of four.  
Hold it for a second and then breathe out 
through your nose to the count of four.  
And notice how you feel. Here's what's going on.  
When the world is chaotic and threatening and 
scary and dangerous, it triggers the stress  
response in our body and our physiology reacts in 
kind. So when we're running when we're stressed  
out, when we're stressed out by something that's 
happening the in the world, our physiology is  
maybe running for its life or it's it's getting 
ready to fight or flee. But your breathing is  
if you're being chased by a lion, evolutionarily, 
the stress response causes you to breathe like  
this. [panting] You are never breathing 
calmly in and out through your nose.  
So while the world can impact our physiology, 
we can flip this. We can also reverse it and  
inform our physiology to do something else. So 
by breathing slowly in and out through your nose,  
you are telling your brain and body that you 
are safe. So we know through brain scan imaging  
studies that folks who are under the same kinds 
of psychological stress but who exercise regularly  
who practice meditation who practice yoga 
will be immune to those stress effects. Their  
cortisol levels will remain low. It will it will 
restore their cortisol levels if they were high  
and it will restore the size of your hippocampus. 
Learning new things. So, let's say you haven't  
done any of those things I just mentioned. Let's 
say you've been sleepdeprived for decades. You  
love bacon and you really don't like to exercise. 
You've been you've been sedentary for a long time.  
Let's say your amaloid plaque levels have 
reached that tipping point and it's triggered  
the cascade that causes Alzheimer's. You should be 
symptomatic at this point, but you might not be.  
If you've lived a life where you're cognitively 
active, you're regularly learning new things,  
you are building what we call a cognitive 
reserve. Every time you learn something new,  
you're building new synapses. You're 
building new neural connections.  
You have trillions of connections in your brain. 
And it's not a static number. You're constantly  
building new synapses every time you form a new 
memory. Think about that. for you to remember  
today what happened yesterday means that your 
brain had to change and one of the ways it changed  
is that it built a new neural connection built 
a number of new neural connections so what does  
this have to do with Alzheimer's if I have some 
Alzheimer's disease pathology present in my brain  
and it's blocking some synapses those amaloid 
plaques are gunking up the connections between  
a certain number of neurons those neurons will 
be impassible communication won't happen there.  
But what if I've built a lot of redundant 
connections? I've got an abundance and a  
redundancy in connections. I can dance around 
those roadblocks. I can take detours and still get  
to the memory I'm trying to get to because memory 
is the neural circuit, the pattern of associated  
connections. There are a number of ways to access 
that memory if I have built a lot of connections  
within it. So learning new things gives us a 
way to build an Alzheimer's resistant brain.  
So people are worried about their memory. And 
I love people being concerned about Alzheimer's  
and wanting to understand what those symptoms 
are and to be mindful of how they can support  
brain health to prevent Alzheimer's. But all the 
other stuff, all of the the 99% of forgetting that  
happens to all of us is normal. The other really 
good news is Alzheimer's doesn't happen overnight.  
This accumulation of amalloid plaques takes 
15 to 20 years and it is not predetermined  
by your genes. Only 2% of folks have Alzheimer's 
that is 100% inherited. For the rest of us,  
that accumulation of amalloid plaques, which 
happens over the course of 15 to 20 years, can be  
influenced by how we live. And so, there's a lot 
we can do to prevent us from getting Alzheimer's.
Want to support the channel?  
Join the Big Think Members community where 
you get access to videos early and free.