美股不是华尔街专利大家好我是米头君你们的美股探路者AI投资无疑是过去这两年资本市场上最热的一个主题但又不得不说现在市场上真正受益于AI的投资机会是少之又少只有像英伟达这样零星几家公司才真正迎来了股价的爆发不过这种情况恐怕即将要发生改变了 In the just-released financial report, we saw such a brand new AI death. The traditional AI revenue company seems to have stopped, and there is such a brand new AI track that is desperately coming to an end. It seems that an AI explosion opportunity in the moth is coming. Because of work, MetoJun has to watch a lot of company reports and investment bank reports every day This AI trend can be said to be the most attractive change in the industry after this financial report But I found that many of us retail investors did not notice this So in today's video, MetoJun will come to you to see the secret of such an AI investment opportunity If you want to understand the latest AI investment opportunities, we have to quickly understand the development of AI in the US stock industry. In the early 20s and 30s, with the rise of AI model, the demand for garlic was growing rapidly. The first to enter the investor's field of vision is the basic-level AI company like Inveda. In two years, the company's stock price has doubled nearly tenfold. I'm sure everyone has heard of this. But the next development of AI, I think many new investors are not clear After the explosion of the infrastructure company, AI hit an investor in the wrong hand On the surface, almost all software companies are promoting their own application AI Investors are also ignorant of it However, people only realized it after the financial crisis The effect of AI in actual corporate operation is really good It's just a gimmick So, after all software companies were hit back into the distance after the stock price rose. In the second half of 1924, the situation turned upside down again. All kinds of software companies such as Shopify, Salesforce, and ServiceNow suddenly erupted, and the reason was that AI brought unexpected changes. What changes? Reduction of capital and increase in efficiency These software companies It's hard to say that they are AI companies They don't have any similar AI functions But because they applied AI internally Successfully cut off a lot of costs Improved the operation efficiency of the company In the end, it brought a real-time improvement in performance 再接着,AI降本增效如星火燎原之势蔓延到了整个美股行业直到现在,它依然是当前AI应用领域最具有确定性的一个大趋势原因很简单,因为AI降本增效还有着大量的盈利空间没有释放根据高盛的预测,到2030年,财富500强企业通过AI自动化预计还能够再节省高达9350亿美元的成本 If you invest in US AI now, you must understand this trend. Although AI has a good growth space, it has a ceiling after all. The cost can be reduced, but it can't be always reduced. In addition, as more and more companies invest in AI, the editing effect on the reduction of the board will be less and less. So if AI can only bring down-to-bottom growth, then the so-called growth of shares brought by AI is destined to be continuous. If the company can no longer find new growth points, the stock price will experience adjustment sooner or later. A typical example is Salesforce, which was mentioned above. As the first company to apply AI down-to-bottom growth, the company's stock price has been extremely good for 24 years. 但很快随着降本的效果逐渐释放而进一步的AI agent业务却迟迟看不到提升于是今年公司的股价便开始掉头向下了当然这里肯定有别的原因共同作用但对AI的期待落空无疑是最重要的一个 那既然AI降本增效不可持续那难道AI这波投资浪潮就注定是袒花一现吗当然不是事实上AI真正的投资机会我认为现在还没有正式降临呢一旦降临那就是足以改变咱投资者命运的一个分身机会AI是一个颠覆性的生产力革命它真正的价值压根就不在于降本而是在于创造全新的收入而就不在于降本而是在于创造全新的收入 This is a good way to describe the following summary of Gaosheng. The deep blue is the size of the AI降本, and the light blue is the size of the AI that brings income growth. You can see that the real value of AI in the future, or the value of continuous growth, is the growth of the company's income. At this stage, companies are no longer optimizing the existing process, but applying AI to dig new businesses and open up new markets. This is the opportunity to have long-term investment value, which is also enough to change the opportunity of the investor's fate. And this is the focus that we are going to share with you today. Because this financial report season, we first saw the出现的苗头 The AI data analysis company Palantir has given 48% of the super high increase rate this quarter, far beyond the 29% goal set by the management level. It is precisely because AI has reduced the user's use threshold and increased the effect of data analysis that it has expanded its revenue scale. Duringo, a foreign language training company, has increased its profit by 41% this quarter, and its daily income has increased by 40%. The reason is that AI has brought an increase in product experience, and has attracted more users. Shopify, which used to use AI to lower the capital internally, now uses AI to provide income for the merchant, to improve the customer's shopping experience, and has also brought higher income growth. All of these are telling us that the era of AI bringing income growth is coming. On the other hand, the curiosity about AI applications has never been as high as it is today. Especially after the openAI GPT-5 interview, many people believe that AI modeling can do everything, and any application field can be replaced. If you have no brain to suppress the hammer application, you are destined to become everything. So we see a lot of software companies After the big rise, the stock price has been falling in recent weeks For us investors How should we seize the opportunity to apply AI? In my opinion, whether it is optimistic or pessimistic They all have a reason It's just that the performance of the investment is different On the one hand, AI applications are destined to bring subversive investment opportunities, and those who are caught up in them are also destined to change their fate. But on the other hand, the beginning of AI development now has a high uncertainty. Like the Internet revolution 30 years ago, those early-release companies, such as the US police, they finally couldn't hold on. And the real subversive opportunities are the unique beast, such as Meta and Netflix, which were not even there at the time. And the opposite is true for AI now. There is no real確定性的AI投資機會 on the market. This is determined by the development stage of AI, and it has nothing to do with our judgment. At this time, it is destined to bear great risks. What should we do? Do we have to wait until many years later, before AI applications really come out and invest? 当然不是虽然现在AI应用层的机会还没有正式爆发但正因为没有爆发才是我们投资者提前准备的一个最佳时机最关键的问题就是我们如何才能提前压住AI爆发机会呢接下来每头巨蛋来给大家分享这么一套我个人的AI选股逻辑 I have such a habit when I invest myself When I encounter something particularly uncertain I will start from the first principle Find the most fundamental and unchanging nature For example, in the investment of stocks Like stock price, performance, these are just the surface In fact, the most fundamental is often people, technology, and money This is also true for AI. Which areas are about to explode, which risks are about to come, these are just some of the symptoms. What is the most fundamental? I think it's the technical principle of AI model. The reason why AI can explode in this round is essentially from the breakthrough of AI model technology. Let's find out what the bottom-level technology logic of AI model is. Let's see what are the un-reducible technical limitations and what are the important development trends. In my opinion, these bottom-level technology logic is the key to determining future AI commercial applications. We can also see from it which areas of application will have real opportunities. Speaking of big model technology, there are only more than 20,000 people in the world who can understand it. The American army is definitely an outsider, but I am fortunate to be a good friend of one of these 20,000 people. He is also a member of our American team. Today, I will tell you about the AI technology principle that I understand from a financial perspective. This part of the content may be a little gray, I will try to make it simpler for you. Now, almost all large models in the world, such as the JBT Jumper9, use the transformer architecture. The principle of the transformer model is very complicated. We can simply divide it into four main parts. The first is input. For example, you ask a JBT. Next, the second part, the big dream will tear your input into words and In the AI brain, these chicken and wood will begin to understand each other, and will begin to think deeply and dig into their own deep meaning. You can imagine the whole process as a chicken and wood team experiencing a mental storm. Its ultimate purpose is to let AI understand what you want to express in this input. This whole process is the most intelligent part of the entire AI model. After understanding what you mean, he will start to organize the answers But his way is a bit special He won't think of a whole sentence at once But he will predict what the first word you see most likely is At this time, what he has in his mind is not a certain word But a probability table For example, he may think that the first word is a 50% probability of the word "yes" It's a 40% probability of the word "no" The last part is to output an answer And how does AI make a choice in the face of so many probabilities? Here it needs a very simple linear rule This rule has nothing to do with intelligence For example, if I set a rule and I always output the highest probability word Then the first word will output "yes" Then the model will throw the word "yes" back into the non-linear model Think about it with the words in it To predict the second word When the second word comes out Throw the first and second words back into the non-linear model Turn around and repeat until you get the final answer So you will see that when the big model is giving you the answer It's a word by word It's not hard for you This is his way of working Why do I spend so much time talking about the principle of the transformer model? In fact, it is because there are so many limitations that are destined to not be crossed. And these limitations are the key to finding a business opportunity, which will also become a challenge for our future investment. So it is very necessary for us investors to understand. The first limitation is that the ability of the large model has a clear ceiling, it is impossible to improve infinitely. You will find that every time it predicts, it will put the predicted words and all the words together and calculate them again. So with the length of the text, the amount of calculation is not a linear increase, but a square increase. For example, from 1000 words to 10,000 words, the calculation demand is not increased ten times, but 100 times. This means that if you want to make the model remember longer upper and lower lines and handle more complex tasks, the cost will increase dramatically and the efficiency will also be lower and lower. In addition to the limitation of the storage and bandwidth, this will soon meet the bottleneck. In fact, the improvement of the general performance of the large model has passed its most difficult stage, and entered a stage of the效益会变得越来越有限也很容易被后来者所赶上唯一的出路就是走差异化路线 So we can see that now all the big models have their own unique capabilities. Like Gemini is multi-model capable, Cloud is writing code capable, while GBT is capable in the field of medical, legal and other advanced industries. The second limit that is destined to be unparalleled is the trend of big models for knowledge. Although the average model of data training is amazing, it is very scattered. Its data is not the whole Internet, but it only occupies a small proportion of the real part related to a certain profession. It's not that the proportion is small, so it must not be understood deeply, but even if it is understood deeply, it will be absorbed by other fields of knowledge. For example, when answering medical questions, it is easy to be interfered by data from those non-professional areas outside the medical field. This rare effect is destined to occur when the blood is transported, and it is even impossible to solve it in the leg. This means that when using the large model, it is destined to become a gold-plated sword when solving complex problems in the professional field. It is not only not deep enough, but also easily interfered by wrong information in other areas. The third limitation is that the linear rule in the big model is destined to be almost impossible to avoid the occurrence of AI illusions. We just gave an example that the most likely word is a rule. Of course, in actual cases, the rules are not so simple and crude. You can think of it as adjusting the rules to make the answer more imaginative or more rigorous. But anyway, as long as it is a rule of design, no matter how reasonable the design is, it is destined to have a situation that it cannot cover. Human society has already been full of various small-scale I know that you must have seen the technical details of the sound here. It sounds like a cloud of physics. It doesn't matter if you don't understand it. You just need to remember these conclusions. First, the large round model is destined to have its power ceiling. So it is difficult for the universal model to replace all the areas of the hammer. Second, the large round model cannot avoid the issue of knowledge. So it is difficult to deal with those complicated issues that require depth and concentration. Third, the large-scale model cannot live up to the rules of the human race, so there will be illusions. All these limitations are not solved through technological progress, but are some technical limitations destined by the transformer model. If you are a technical expert, then it is enough to know about large models. But fortunately, we are financial people, investors, so behind all these technical limitations, what I see is the business logic that is destined to happen. In fact, all these large model limitations point to the same conclusion, that is, as long as the transformer model does not change, then AI applications in the vertical field are destined to exist for a long time and have irreplaceable and extremely high upper limit. This may not be the same as many people's understanding. Let me explain more here. Let's say that in the big circle model, it cannot live up to the rules set by humans. And the rules are destined to be missed Can't solve all the problems Then this leaves a great business opportunity for vertical application fields I can also accurately customize a set of rules and processes within my field, which is to design an framework most suitable for my own industry, and then allow AI to act according to the rules I have set. This will effectively avoid the illusion of AI talking to itself. People in the industry will know that this is actually a kind of variable prompt engineering. This can solve the problem of large-scale model illusion, and can also use the advantages of AI. This is why the vertical AI application is destined to exist for a long time and has a very high upper limit. This is understood from the perspective of the upper line, and from the perspective of the lower line, it is also the case. Because the knowledge of the large model is destined to be lost, it is difficult to solve the complex problems of depth and concentration in the hammer. So as long as your hammer is complicated enough, the large model is difficult to replace. And because the large model is destined to have a ceiling in terms of usability, and now it has passed the most tricky stage. That means the more you develop, the more difficult the hammer application will be replaced by the large model. So we said that as long as the transformer model does not change, AI applications in the vertical field are destined to exist for a long time and have irreplaceable and extremely high upper limit. But what you have to pay attention to is that this is not right. It's not that all vertical applications will not be subverted by the big model. If you want to do an AI for translation, the probability will be subverted very quickly. Because the field of translation is not complicated enough. And it's not like all AI不达5%而剩下的95%的AI项目最终都没有达到预期 So for us investors, the most important question is What kind of AI application can really meet the conditions and achieve long-term growth? In fact, if you understand the underlying technology principle of large models, you can understand how to choose a truly valuable AI application. For us ordinary investors, you only need to remember three points. First, industry experts, second, data flying wheels, third, scale. First, industry experts, there are actually two parts. One of them is AI technology. You have to have someone who can turn complex tasks into AI-able processes. I just said that there are only 20,000 experts like this in the world now. But this is temporary, and there will be more and more people like this in the future. The real key here is actually the technical barriers of the company itself. If you originally have technology that is not easy to copy, then AI is also difficult to copy. Instead, AI has added support, which can make the leader's support system more complicated. On the other hand, if your technology is not complicated, then AI will be easy to copy your process. This kind of Second, you'd better have a priority advantage, because the earlier the data wheel turns, the faster it turns, the harder it is for others to surpass. Third, you have to have private data. If your data is available in the public domain, then it is easy to learn large models. And if you have data that others don't have, it's easy to form your own security box to magnify the advantage of AI. Third, scale. In the AI application level, scale determines efficiency and cost. The larger the company's scale, the easier it is to apply and verify the model system you designed in the hammer. And its anti-risk ability will also be stronger. This can build a natural advantage at an extremely uncertain stage in the early stages of AI development. Okay, this is the screening standard for all AI-based applications. Now we can press some possible opportunities ahead of time according to these standards. Speaking of which, we have already found a target that suits our standards. Here, I will share with you some of the better opportunities I personally think are good to give you as a reference. The first is the field of data analysis. The most typical of these companies is Palantir. It basically meets all the standards of the market. It has the first-ever technical kind in the industry, and has already passed the private data between the various departments of the enterprise through the basic theory. And this data wheel has been running for more than 20 years. Although its client size is small, the data analysis can be said to be the most and deepest in the industry. From traditional companies to technology companies, from government to military, it is all in one. So, such a company, AI is difficult to replace the value of its clients, but AI will expand the company's range. So Palantir is also a very good AI ​​shares opportunity for me. I just analyzed this company in detail in the last video. Second is autonomous driving, and Tesla is one of the representatives. Tesla basically meets all the standards we have listed, and is also a very good app. It has a strong technical background, has the earliest, most private data, and is also unparalleled in terms of scale. But in contrast, the autonomous driving field has a lower error rate and is greatly influenced by supervision. It is possible that it will develop faster than the data analysis field. 剩下几个可能的还包括广告、生物医药、教育他们都满足大部分的筛选标准但相对来说也各有各的问题比如广告业的壁垒就相对弱一些生物医药又有着规模制约和监管的制约教育虽然非常适合AI富能但壁垒又太低严重依赖数据飞轮和规模 Finally, I have to make a supplement to this video. We said at the beginning that at the early stage of AI development, there will be high uncertainty. So there may be no real investment value AI application opportunities have yet to appear. We introduce AI application opportunities to you today. The purpose is to help you understand and prepare in advance. When the opportunity really appears, we can have a chance. It's not to let you hide the pig and go to fight a night of revenge. Okay, that's it. All the opportunities for AI app storage are introduced to you. I believe you must have seen it here. It's still a long way to go. We know how to choose AI So under these standards, Is there any specific place to pay attention to? I really don't have time to introduce this part of the content because of time I will put it in the next episode of AI In the next episode, I will share with you a I personally think the most suitable for us to spread investment And analyze the investment opportunities in a few of the I put this part of the next episode on the Meto Pro It's already online now You can click the link in the top comment to take a look We are also welcome to take advantage of the new users of the new Mito Pro to use for free the day before. If you want to watch the next episode, you don't have to have any pressure. Also welcome everyone to experience all the services of Mito Pro for free. I don't mind having a wool. Welcome everyone to try it. Thank you all. If you like Mito's video, don't forget to like it, follow and forward it. Thank you all.