Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today I want to talk about a topic that many friends are concerned about.
What books should we read?
How to read more efficiently
What we mean by reading here
First of all, it is not about reading for a specific purpose.
For example, if you want to solve a specific technical problem
To pass specific exams, etc.
This kind of problem
Generally have relatively clear and standard answers
On the contrary, what I mean by this kind of reading is
It is relatively broad and abstract in purpose
For example, improving wisdom and understanding the world,
Understand yourself, understand human nature,
Gain richer and more delicate emotional abilities, etc.
Many netizens have asked me questions like this:
Anthony, what kind of books do you like to read?
Can you recommend me some books?
Can it help improve thinking?
Some netizens asked me
Learn by reading
Is it definitely more efficient than learning by watching videos?
Is reading classics necessarily more advanced than reading ordinary books?
Then this video
Let us try to answer the above questions
I won’t recommend any specific books here.
I want to discuss with you all
A low-level framework for reading and learning
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
In the chat with many netizens
I often encounter this phenomenon
The parties are online
See various "must-read lists"
For example, "30 books that young people must read"
"Book list recommended by 14 university presidents" etc.
These lists usually list well-known
Or works of high academic status
For example, Kant's Critique of Pure Reason
Heidegger's Being and Time, etc.
Many people also expressed their own reading experience
These books aren't that difficult to read.
What a profound experience it brought me
So
After seeing this information,
There is often anxiety in the heart
Should I read these books, too?
If I hadn't read
Does it mean that I am not profound and advanced enough?
then
The person concerned began to force himself to read these books.
The result was very strenuous
Can't even read it
Either the text is too abstract or difficult to understand
Or feel that there is a lack of background information
Boring
But they can't express the pain.
I think if I admit it
It's like I'm shallow.
Or the understanding is too poor
So some people choose to grit their teeth and persevere
Maybe I finished reading it with difficulty.
But there is no feeling of clarity of thought
But exhausted
Others began to doubt themselves:
Should I
Want to find some more introductory and basic texts to read?
But when they think so
It will cause shame
Because they see people saying
"When I was 18, I understood the book
Is this difficult?
That’s actually it.”
So they fell into a
A very common reading contempt chain:
I can't read famous books
So am I unworthy of thinking?
Here lies the following assumption:
Reading is a one-way process of transmitting information
The reader is an absorber
The book is an external object
We read to get information
This is equivalent to
Treat books as an external carrier of knowledge
In this case
Then the more famous the book is
The more knowledge and information it contains
This is just like practicing martial arts in martial arts novels.
I read a secret book
His martial arts skills gradually improved.
Many training courses also emphasize this framework.
As
What we said in this video on December 7:
In traditional Chinese teaching concepts
Students are passive recipients of information
The object of knowledge imparted by teachers
This hides a premise:
Teachers are the main body of learning
Students just cooperate with teachers to complete their studies
What people usually understand as learning
It is to incorporate alien things into one's own thoughts.
Human beings are a blank slate.
You can let the outside world draw
The learning process
It is to gather a lot of knowledge and information
The mechanical process that fills the brain
This is how many people understand reading.
I believe that reading is a way for me to actively approach the truth.
Get closer to the truth, get rid of the ego,
The process of integrating into the greater self
Of course, classics are usually better than popular books.
Contains more knowledge
But what does this have to do with me?
I want to emphasize that
The individual is the measure of everything
Leaving aside personal goals and true interests
All truth and knowledge are actually meaningless
I am certainly not against reading classics.
This is of course a good thing.
But I think
This reading should first be based on
Based on natural development and genuine interest
This judgment
The same applies to classical music or pop music
Is it better to read books or watch videos?
etc.
In my opinion
The answers to these questions should be
Can it arouse the client's interest in experience and exploration?
As a prerequisite
therefore
Each person's answers to these questions
It must be different
It’s personalized
Indeed, many classic works
All of them have been tested by the academic community and history.
But they may not be for everyone
It is universally valid at all times
on the contrary
They often constitute what Bourdieu calls
Cultural Capital
Bourdieu believes
Cultural capital is not only knowledge itself
It is a kind of society dominated by a certain class.
Taste and accomplishment endowed with symbolic value
Those recognized difficult classics
The reason why it has become an object of show
Precisely because
These books
Has been given symbolic value by the cultural field
And a charm that applies to everyone unconditionally
But this is largely a misunderstanding
Many people share their experiences online
Not really true
They emphasized
The authority and universal validity of certain works
Mainly to construct a posture to isolate others
Who reads these books?
Who is assumed to be smarter?
This distinction in turn creates a kind of contempt chain
For those who want to find their own path
Feeling anxious, speechless and low self-esteem
However, in reality
Truth is everywhere
It is contained in all texts and individuals.
What is really scarce is not profound texts
Rather, it is the interpretive resources and abilities of the experience
We say that in the eyes of a good educator
Any text
In fact, there is a lot of room for interpretation.
As long as students are interested in any text or phenomenon
Genuinely interested
Educators can use guidance and dialogue to
Dig out and interpret the inspiring connotations
It should be noted that
Educators and students here
First of all, there are two kinds of consciousness
Rather than two kinds of people
These two kinds of consciousness
They can also coexist in one person's heart
In fact, don't say it's a text
Even if it is just one person's mood swing
Or walking on the street
An observation of street scenes and pedestrians
As long as you are willing to interpret and describe
This may lead to very profound insights
The task of an educator is not to impart content
It is about activating a space for interpretation.
Can make students experience
In which it can be generated and grown naturally
This generated direction
You can completely deviate from the central idea of ​​the content itself
You don’t have to follow all kinds of political correctness
or established moral standards
In the private sphere
We should adhere to this
Freedom to interpret experience
Because human experience is fundamentally
It is irreplaceable and unique
And only you can give it meaning
You can't explain it with any external standard answer.
Why do you cry over a comic book?
Why is there a illogical online novel?
Let you rekindle some passion
Why a brainless romance drama?
It will evoke a sense of grandeur and history in you.
These experiences are neither right nor wrong
They may come from something that is not profound
But my emotional depth and complexity
But it can be quite profound
If I don't think highly of them because of their secular evaluation
And deny the depth of my own emotions
That is
I really lost a precious opportunity to explore myself.
for example
I once chatted with an online friend
at first
He discussed a philosophy book he was reading recently.
He tried to find the
Understand your entry point
But I can't always read it
Later we talked about
Some of the pornographic literature he had read recently
This triggers his experience more than philosophy books
As a result, the episodes that triggered strong arousal
It coincides with the long-suppressed feelings of the parties involved.
Connecting with your true self
He gained a better understanding of his unconscious thoughts
and impulse
So
For the purpose of the parties
Pornography is actually more valuable than philosophy books
Same reason
Our interpretation is purely personal.
Therefore, it is harmless and free from moral judgment.
for example
North Korea and Nazi Germany are both dictatorships
But if you learn from North Korea's red songs
Or maybe there was some kind of beauty in the Nazi uniforms
Does this mean something is immoral?
Or an identification with totalitarianism?
I think we should put our personal aesthetic experience
Distinguish from identification with ideology and values
Aesthetic experience itself is not dangerous
The real danger is the monopoly of the right to interpret the experience
Toxic text
Only in a repressive and closed environment
It is poisonous
That is, the kind that traps people in an inexplicable
A system that cannot be questioned or reflected upon
If a person is free to interpret his or her experience
Allow your experiences to flow out
Then he can use an exploratory attitude
To love any form of text
And this love is also safe
As
What we said in this video on March 9th
If a person lives for a long time in what Rogers said
Sincere and transparent communication
Even if he reads Mao Zedong and Lenin's books
Even if he really believed what they said.
But he will naturally find the problem
and deny them
And if a person
In an educational environment that suppresses emotions
Even if you let this child read
Kant's Critique of Practical Reason
or The Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals
Or other enlightenment ideas
He can still read a kind of despotism,
Harsh and authoritarian colors
He could have put his heart in
Authoritarian parent image
Projecting onto Kant
For example
I have made several videos
Problems with criticizing the book "The Courage to Be Disliked"
But if a netizen told me
He gained a certain sense of confidence from this book.
So
I can also be interested in this feeling of confidence
And the stories and life experiences behind it
sometimes
The parties need to use certain words
To support your own experience
Then as long as these words make him feel connected
And being seen is good
What is the author's original intention?
What is the author like?
Not important
My interpretation of this book
It's just my own.
This freedom of interpretation
It will not make people fall into confusion and disorder of thinking
It can help people to re-establish order in their thoughts.
Because it is firmly linked to
The most authentic experience of the parties involved
This experience
Only in an environment of goodwill and trust
To expand and generate
We say
The anchor of a person's thoughts can only be established on himself
Chaos never comes from freedom of interpretation
And from experience, it is impossible to speak and see,
Emotions are not reflected,
And the meaning cannot be organized
When a person
Begin to boldly explain and observe your own experiences
He actually connects experience and thinking
What happened
Connect with “What this means”
That's why many people keep diaries,
When creating and telling your own stories
You will gradually feel clear, stable,
Even easy
Because the flow of meaning itself is the germ of order
The above content is what I have learned in the past few years
Some personal experience accumulated
I just happened to be reading Heidegger's philosophy recently.
I think his point of view
Seems to sum up my experience very well.
Heidegger emphasized in Being and Time
The existence of beings
It is a self-display in motion
It is a way of constantly opening yourself up,
Reveal your truth
Existence is not "externally observed"
It is through a relational structure
In the encounter with Dasein
Gradually revealing its significance
For our reading and learning
The text is not a passive and closed object
But in the process of my encounter with it
Through the "phenomenon"
Open its existence itself
That is to say
We are not reading
But reading
My relationship with books
It's me and this book
Entering into an event of understanding together
When we read a passage
When you find text that really interests you
We are being
Attracted by the unfinished "I"
This passage touches upon our yet-to-be-unfolded
But the desire to become a possibility
To sum up
so far
We mainly discussed personal experience
At the core of reading and learning
Next episode
Let's talk specifically about how to read efficiently
That's all for today's video
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!