Have you ever wondered how great works are created?
American sociologist Richard Sennett studied the best people in various fields.
Musician, architect, craftsman, Japanese master
I found that these people all have one characteristic
This is the so-called "craftsman spirit"
The book craftsman we are going to face today is
Let's analyze how the craftsman spirit is forged.
The history of craftsmen
Why does contemporary society no longer encourage the spirit of craftsmanship?
How can we find the craftsman in everyone's heart?
First, let’s define what a craftsman is.
A craftsman is someone who does his work in order to get it done well.
And also have enough ability to achieve perfection
Psychologist Daniel Levitin studies the best in various fields
It was found that a number appeared frequently
These are the people who have worked 10,000 hours in the same field.
This is what later became known as the 10,000-hour rule.
That sounds like a lot.
But in fact, it is just practicing 3 hours a day for 10 years
Medieval craftsmen apprentices studied 5 hours a day and graduated in 7 years
How was the craftsman trained?
The author found that all skills start from the body
Masters in various fields attach great importance to craftsmanship
Emphasize touch over sight
British philosopher Hobbes once conducted an experiment
Take the child into a dark room
Ask them to touch objects in the room in the dark
Afterwards, ask them to describe what they felt.
turn out
Compared to turning on the light to see the object
Children use words more sharply and accurately when groping in the dark
Because when you don't rely on vision
The sense of touch will be amplified
This is even more obvious when learning a musical instrument.
Japanese violinist Suzuki Shoichi discovered
When children learn string instruments, they often don’t know where to put their fingers.
He put different colored tapes on the cardboard.
Let your child know where to put their fingers
To produce the correct tone
This is called the Suzuki method.
But Suzuki found
Just tear off the tape
The tone is out of tune
I thought the child would get used to the pressing position.
But the fingers didn't become more sensitive.
It's the vision of the eyes that creates a false sense of security
After Suzuki discovered this problem
I changed the teaching method so that once the child feels comfortable with it,
Just tear off the tape quickly.
Let them use their fingers to get familiar with the touch of the instrument material
This will take away the sense of security.
Because now they can only rely on touch and hearing to determine what is wrong
But it is through this back and forth adjustment
Instead, they will regain a familiar sense of touch
Scientists discovered
When a person's fingers unconsciously grope for a specific area on an object
That block actually stimulates the brain to think
Like a medieval goldsmith testing metal
Rub the metal with your fingertips to judge its purity
In the long run
A craftsman's brain is more sensitive to the touch of certain metals
This is why many experts have calloused hands.
People thought that thickening of the skin would dull the sense of touch
Quite the opposite, actually.
Calluses protect the peripheral nerves of the hands
Make detection faster and more sensitive
The second characteristic of the craftsman
Know how to work with yourself
Your left and right hands will help each other
This is actually a kind of cooperation
Just because it's so natural
You forget you are working with yourself.
We usually think that to master a skill
You can first break down the action
After mastering each small action, combine them together
However, empirical research has found
The effect of two hands working together is actually better
For example, pianist David Sudnow found
He started learning jazz the wrong way
In jazz music, the left hand usually needs to be opened wide to play the harmony.
So he practiced with his hands separated
In the end, one hand always makes a mistake.
There is actually a physiological explanation for this.
Because the corpus callosum that connects the motor cortex to the other side of the body
The left brain controls the right side of the body
The right brain controls the left side of the body
So if you take your hands apart and practice
This will weaken the nerve conduction between the left and right brain
But if you practice with both hands
It can strengthen the neural connection between the left and right brain.
It seems that the human brain is designed to make our left and right sides complement each other.
After long-term training of a skill
Craftsmen will gradually learn various inexpressible
But knowledge that can be operated intuitively without thinking
This is what philosopher Michael Polanyi calls "implicit knowledge."
For example, you may have had an experience
Assemble furniture by yourself by reading the instructions
I looked for a long time but still don't understand
But if someone shows you
No need to elaborate
You will immediately understand
This is the body's implicit knowledge
Or cook according to someone else's recipe.
No matter how you cook
The result of cooking is different.
But if someone shows you how to do it in person
You watch from the side
You will know how to do it
This is hard to express in words
The knowledge that must be communicated through the body is implicit knowledge.
To identify a person's ability
It depends on how much implicit knowledge this person has.
The highest level craftsman
An internal rhythm develops between the hands and the object
I forget myself when doing things.
Like when we hit something with a hoe
After hitting for a long time, you won't feel the difference between the hammer and your palm.
It's as if the hand disappeared
The hoe becomes an extension of the body
Became part of the hand
We become one with what we are making
Stop thinking about what your hands are doing.
Philosopher Merleau-Ponty called this experience the unity of self and object
<font color=#FFF800FF>Sorry, I was too absorbed in playing</font>
The highest-level craftsmen are creating
It is to enter the state of unity between the self and the world.
After introducing the craftsman's body knowledge
The author now further explores
How craftsmen use tools and face difficulties
A good craftsman does not come up with a perfect blueprint before starting construction.
The typical practice of a craftsman is to make corrections while working.
For example, the 13th-century Salisbury Cathedral in England
It was created by three generations of craftsmen.
No blueprint
But modify while covering
And the well-known Hayao Miyazaki
Also insist on hand-drawn animation
Editing as you draw
This keeps the brain from being separated from the work.
1963 MIT engineer Ivan Sutherland invents computer-aided design (CAD) software program
Many architectural firms today use
Computer-aided software can be used to simulate design drawings
No need to draw it yourself
But even with these convenient tools
Many master architects still prefer hand-drawing
For example, the famous Italian architect Renzo Piano said his working process is
Start with a sketch, then a design, then a model
Then go to the field to explore
Then go back and modify the design
Constantly switching back and forth between drawing and implementation
In contrast
Architects who rely too much on computer tools
May fail because of concept first
For example, the Peachtree Center in Georgia, USA
Computer simulation design
The designer did not find the disconnect with the actual situation
Not taking into account the amount of sunlight and climate
Wait until the construction is completed
I just found out that the location in Rizhao is too hot
No one wants to sit in the outdoor seats of the cafe
If the designer visits the site every day
Actually experience what it's like to sit there
It is possible to avoid this design in the first place
A master craftsman is not enslaved by his tools
But know how to use the tools in reverse
Many new inventions in human history
In fact, it is the craftsmen who use tools to make "intuitive jumps"
What is intuition?
It just hasn't happened yet.
I feel like it might happen
The author divides this "intuitive jump" into four stages:
First, when using the tool
A skilled craftsman will have a vague intuition
Are there other possibilities for using tools?
Can I break the routine?
Change its original purpose
The second step is to use intuition to think in leaps and bounds.
Finding connections between two seemingly unrelated fields
For example, the invention of the mobile phone
It's actually a combination of radio broadcasting and landline telephones.
1970s
The U.S. military already uses radio to communicate
Motorola is the first company in the United States to combine the convenience of radio with the reliability of local telephone calls.
Two possible connections
But the tools that have not yet been connected are combined
Made a mobile phone
The third stage of intuitive leap
It is to think about implicit knowledge that you have never thought about before.
Many technological transfers in human history
In fact, it is just transferring the same set of techniques from field A to field B.
This leads to innovation
And this is actually Plato's view on innovation
Plato said
Anything that comes into existence from non-existence is creation.
For example, the 17th-century English architect Christopher Wren
I have been interested in studying microscopes since I was a child.
The Great Fire of London in 1666
200,000 residents displaced
Lane used his familiar microscope observation technique
Moved to analyzing the population density of each borough in London
This is how we can calculate how many churches each district needs to rebuild to serve its residents.
This makes him one of the greatest architects ever built in Britain.
The final stage of the intuitive leap is
Craftsmen will understand that after technology transfer
It's not a problem, it's solved
There are still some problems
So next the author will talk about how craftsmen face difficulties
There is a popular saying in the engineering community: "Follow the path of least resistance."
But the author found
Craftsmen have three techniques to make themselves more courageous
The first is that craftsmen are not afraid to re-practice
Expand your imagination
For example, many piano masters practice
One hand can't play a difficult chord
They usually try the other hand.
Find out which finger is the problem
And find a new way to play that suits you
The second way a craftsman can deal with resistance is with patience.
Keep working with frustration
A patient craftsman will temporarily stop the desire to achieve the target.
Take a break
Rather than rushing to complete the task
換句話說
Craftsmen can realize early
The mission may take longer than we thought.
So we have to adjust our expectations
Final note
The most important point is
Craftsmen can think from other people’s perspectives
From the perspective of resistance
For example, American philosopher John Dewey argued
Learn from resistance
Many people encounter obstacles when learning and cannot overcome them.
They will choose to give up and turn back.
But the craftsman will stay at the edge of resistance
Learning with resistance
That is, converting the boundary into the frontier
<font color=#FFF800FF>A true artist is always exploring new areas</font>
<font color=#FFF800FF>They will go to places no one has been to before</font>
<font color=#FFF800FF>It is unknown territory so you will fail and take risks</font>
<font color=#FFF800FF>It is this failure that creates the artist's novelty</font>
<font color=#FFF800FF>Great artists are always prepared to fail</font>
The author gave an example of a failure he had experienced.
He was involved in an urban project in New York
New York City is building a new market
Harlem is the poorest neighborhood in the area.
On the other side, south of 96th Street is the wealthy area
The author chose the central area of ​​Harlem to build the market.
Later I realized I had chosen the wrong location.
The market should have been built on the edge of two communities.
This will promote exchanges between the poor and the rich.
That is, we should not regard the two ends of the gap between the rich and the poor as obstacles.
Instead, we should use this resistance to think differently.
This is how craftsmen think.
If you want to experience the craftsmanship of the craftsmen
Then try this Zhuangtoubei 16L eco digital constant temperature water heater
With mature technology, segmented fire row
The size of the fire row will be adjusted according to the water inlet temperature in different climates
Whether winter or summer
No more worrying about the water temperature being hot or cold when taking a bath
Eco Energy Saving System
Save gas waste
Help you save more gas bills
Comfortable and energy-saving in different seasons
Zhuangtoubei water heater has solid parts
The copper content of the water tank is as high as 99.9% or more
Make it more thermally conductive
Also more durable
The internal board is also sealed with waterproof design
You can feel the subtle craftsmanship created by the spirit of craftsmen in every place
Professional technicians will come to your home to install it, and there is a five-year warranty period
Durable and usable
Three Persistences of Zhuangtoubei Brand
Let you take a bath at home every day
You can also experience the persistence of the Zhuangtoubei brand
After introducing the craftsman spirit
Now let's talk about modern economies.
Why are craftsmen not encouraged?
From ancient times to the present
Craftsmen have always been devalued throughout history.
In ancient Greek mythology
Originally, humans and wild animals lived in caves.
......?
Hephaestus, the god of crafts, taught humans various craft skills
After people learn the craft
You can live in a house you built yourself
Separated from the wild beasts
But after the philosophers appeared
The status of craftsmen began to be degraded
Think thinking is a higher level activity
The rough work was done by slaves.
The elite class is responsible for brains, and the slaves are responsible for hands
Craftsmen combine their hands and brains to create craftsmanship
So in between
In the Middle Ages
The status of artisans became like today's middle class
Every workshop has a master who passes down his skills from generation to generation.
Apprentices must learn by imitation
Can’t innovate on your own
The master has absolute authority
Can decide whether an apprentice is qualified to become a craftsman
In the Renaissance
A new view of man has emerged
Believe that humans are not created by God
For example, the philosopher Pico della Mirandola said
Man is his own creator
This has led many craftsmen to produce original works.
Some artworks were differentiated from handicrafts
The Renaissance was actually a group of craftsmen who stood out
Became an artist
Craftsmen need recognition from their trade unions
But artists are loyal to their own ideas
Claim that your work is original
It's your own personal characteristics
Unlike a craftsman who inherits the skills of his master
Can't have your own personal characteristics
After the Industrial Revolution in the 18th century
Machines replace human labor
The status of artisans is at stake
There were two schools of thought at that time.
Some people think that we can cooperate with machines
Like in Diderot's Encyclopedia
Highly praise the craftsmen
This book is regarded as the craft bible and has become the best-selling book in Europe.
Even Empress Catherine of Russia was a loyal reader
Diderot wanted to understand the spirit of craftsmanship
Do your own field research
But he soon ran into trouble.
Much of a craftsman’s knowledge is implicit knowledge.
It can only be done, not described
How did Diderot solve this problem?
Since words cannot capture the spirit of craftsmanship
Then use painting
So there are a lot of illustrations in the encyclopedia
Draw each step of the production process
Rather than describing it in words
Diderot tried another approach.
It is to turn yourself into a craftsman
Hands-on experience
Learning to use a paper machine
Diderot's Enlightenment ideal
It is to make machines do what humans cannot do.
Let people do what machines can't do
Craftsmen and machines work together
But there is another group of people who think
Craftsmen must fight against machines
John Ruskin, a 19th-century British writer, saw the rapid development of industry
Believe that industrialization has destroyed the original craftsmanship of mankind
Mass production reduces product quality
Cold industrial products have no humanity
Ruskin said:
Printing is the cursed technology
that makes people accustomed to having the same things all the time.
Compared to workers working in modern factories
The quality of products produced by medieval craftsmen was higher
Ruskin therefore had a radical idea
He advocates that the entire contemporary society should return to the pre-industrial era
Use your body to touch handmade products
Rather than asking a machine to do it for you
His thoughts even became a literary school
Ruskinism
Craftsmen who oppose modern technology and emphasize manual labor
In the 1850s, Ruskin even funded the creation of a working men's college.
Invite craftsmen from all walks of life to learn
Unveiling the progressive mask of industrial society
I hope to reawaken people’s craftsmanship
To make craftsmen aware
Machine-made products have no temperature
<font color=#FFF600FF>Yes, yes</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>Well done</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>It really helped me a lot</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>Made with magic</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>It's useless</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>Put it underneath</font>
<font color=#FFF600FF>Yes, yes, two more shots</font>
In the 20th century
Japan's rapid economic development after World War II
Industrial products made in Japan are high quality and cheap
This has caused Western countries to rethink
What's the problem?
Why Japanese companies do better
The author believes
Japanese craftsmanship
A cooperative culture rooted in collectivism
因為戰後的日本企業
採用商業分析師戴明（Edwards Deming）的建議
實行全面品質管理
The company needs to have cohesion
管理人員必須到基層去身體力行
下屬也要能夠對上司說實話
才會有資訊透明的合作文化
on the other hand
日本企業的職員精神
其實像是一種識別標章
例如在美國的日本店家
會以職人精神來主打自己的其他店家不同
也就是追求高品質
已經變成日本人的一種身份認同
用來標榜我們比其他民族更勤奮、更認真
也就是社會學家Bourdieu所說的象徵資本
作者發現，職人精神這種象徵資本
讓美國的日本移民有一種優越感
覺得自己跟其他國家的移民不同
後來經濟學家Richard Lester跟Michael Piore發現
行動電話產業的創新其實也是因為這種合作文化
而不是資本主義鼓勵的分工、競爭
Motorola跟Nokia當時之所以成功，是因為更強調技術合作
Motorola讓一小群工程師設計出來後
陳列出各種技術方案
讓其他團隊未來也可以用到
Nokia則是讓工程師之間可以開放式對談
讓行銷人員、設計師加入
不是強調分工
而是強調合作
In contrast
Ericson更強調部門之間的分工
因為各部門會想鞏固自己的勢力
結果導致對其他部門隱藏訊息
組織的僵化競爭讓Ericson最終走入下坡
這就是喪失了職人精神的後果
最後作者要提出一個很有趣的觀點
我們通常認為才能是天生的
每個人的確會有不同的天賦高低
但作者認為
人人都會靠後天訓練成為匠人
因為精通某一項技藝所需的匠人精神
其實可以追溯到童年的玩耍經驗
我們以為遊戲跟工作是對立的兩個活動
遊戲是給小孩的
工作是給大人的
但是歷史學家Huizinga就指出：
其實在工業革命以前的歐洲
不論大人小孩都會玩遊戲跟玩玩具
直到工業革命後
成年人被工廠組織馴化後
才逐漸失去玩遊戲的時間跟好奇心
但其實遊戲就是一門技藝
每個人小時候都有過這種經驗
在遊戲中
人學會如何摸索規則跟改變規則
並且利用工具去發揮自己的想像力
玩到最後會渾然忘我
這其實就是匠人精神在追求的境界
兒童心理學家Erik Erikson觀察小孩玩玩具的過程
發現小孩在蓋積木的時候
背後的心理是想知道積木可以堆多高
或是在玩玩偶的時候
會去把他們的眼睛扯下來
這是想知道玩具有多牢固
這些玩玩具的方式
其實都源自一種心理
想去理解客體的真相
因此跟玩具建立一種對話關係
在熟悉規則後重復玩同一個遊戲、玩具
每一次的遊玩
都是在學習修正自己的行為
Go play better
發揮想像力讓規則變形
這整個過程其實就是成年人實踐匠人精神的精髓
換句話說
我們每一個人在小時候都曾經是一個匠人
只是在長大後被我們遺忘了
因為長大後進到學校體制
開始被文字書籍給淹沒
這些都違背了匠人精神的追求
不再有「觸覺」、「實作」、「手腦並用」、「想像力」
在成年後
工作也變成只是求生工具
資本主義的經濟體也不鼓勵人們追求卓越、合作、成為匠人
反而是高壓競爭
讓勞工過勞
最後失去鬥志
所以哲學家杜威在《民主與教育》裡就說：
要不是經濟狀況，導致窮人不得已勞動、富人可以無所事事的遊戲
工作和遊戲其實都是無所拘束的
都是人們發自內心想去做
但是當人們把活動變成手段
工作就會變成強迫勞動
如果人們以遊戲心態去工作
那工作就會是一門藝術
能夠讓我們找回曾經擁有
但後來逐漸喪失的匠人精神