Today’s We're going to talk about
Dune story describes the world 10,000 years from now
The Atreides family on Caledan received the emperor's order
Responsible for taking over the desert planet Arrakis, originally ruled by the Harkennen family.
But after taking over
However, they were exterminated by the Emperor's Legion and the Hakenen Family.
The protagonist Paul and his mother Jessica survived
Joined the society of the Fremen, the native people of Arrakis.
Start a prince's revenge story
story begins
We saw the spice fight on Arrakis
Spices are a key resource for interstellar travel
Whoever controls it controls political power
The Hakenen family has monopolized local spice deposits for 80 years
Wealthier than the Emperor
But they often encountered resistance from the local Fremen.
Spices in "Dune" are like oil in today's world
Both spices and petroleum have one characteristic
They are all potential products
Spices derived from sandworm secretions
Sandworms Can Eat People, Trucks, Everything
The secreted excrement turns into spices
in other words
Spices are actually the bones eaten by sandworms
The same oil is also the skeleton of prehistoric creatures
The result of millions of years of high-pressure deformation underground
But spices and oil are both potential resources
It must be found through exploration technology
This makes spices and petroleum what eco-philosopher Timothy Morton calls “hyperobjects.”
Different from traditional natural objects
Forests and oceans are there to be seen, exploited, and used
The distribution of hyperobjects is random and unpredictable
Cannot be positioned in time and space
So every time a new oil field is discovered
Will bring about changes in global energy politics
It will also bring disaster to local residents
The 2010 oil spill occurred on a BP oil drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico.
CEO Tony Hayward said:
Compared to the vast Gulf of Mexico
Oil leakage is relatively small
Nature will absorb it on its own
This is the limit encountered when thinking about oil using traditional object concepts.
Because oil, as a super object, will not just stay in the Gulf of Mexico.
Hyperobjects can be scattered randomly
Contaminating humans and non-humans
Residents near Gulf of Mexico after oil spill
Visual lesions begin to occur
Like in Dune
Fremen's eyes turned blue after being exposed to the spiced air for too long.
The existence of super objects reminds us that humans cannot be outside the ecological environment
Just the opposite
Super objects can enter the human body and become part of the human body
Spices are more than just fuel for interstellar travel
Can also be used to expand sensory perception
After Paul inhaled spices in an accident
Begin to experience illusions, see the past and the future
same
Plastics made from petroleum are discarded into the ocean
Turns into plastic particles and is eaten by marine life
Seafood finally enters the human stomach again
We thought oil was out there
But oil is actually in our stomachs
We have long been integrated with super objects
So we can no longer talk about "the surrounding ecological environment"
Because we are the ecology
ironnically
Author Frank Herbert wrote "Dune" in 1965
To warn the world of the coming ecological crisis
But after the publication of "Dune"
But it triggered the imagination of American society about colonizing space.
NASA's moon landing plan
Part of it was inspired by "Dune"
Trying to find mineral deposits on the moon
Also during the same period
In the 1960s, Saudi Arabia began to exploit large quantities of oil.
At that time, climate scientists had already discovered that oil causes warming
But petrochemical companies, in order to make profits
Turn a blind eye to these reports
This "imperial economy" and "imperial ecological ignorance" are clearly revealed in "Dune"
During the first spice prospecting operation
The new Atreides don't know how the crew works in the desert
Didn’t know that spices are actually the excrement of sandworms?
I didn’t know that traveling in the desert would attract sandworms.
Instead, one must learn from Imperial ecologist Kynes
Reliance on Dr Kynes highlights the ecological ignorance of the empire’s rulers
in the original novel
Dr. Kynes even clearly stated
Let Arrakis be restored to green space
Only 3% of green plants that can form carbon compounds need to be maintained
You can create a self-sufficient ecological cycle system
Just like today's petrochemical industry
Deliberately delaying green energy policies
The green space restoration plan in "Dune" was also blocked by the Spice Empire
The Atreides originally wanted to use the Fremen's ecological knowledge
But after being exterminated
Paul and Jessica were exiled to the desert
Accidentally joined the Fremen group
The first is to accept the challenge from the Fremen and fight until one party dies.
But joining a group does not mean becoming a true Fremen.
it's here
We see the key to becoming a Fremen
It is to develop a sense of equality with group members
at this point
Dune author Frank Herbert was actually inspired by the Arab philosopher Ibn Khaldun
Ibn Khaldun believed that nomads lived in extreme environments
Easily develop community consciousness Asabiyyah
Live a life of equality and mutual help
But there will always be a few people in the group who desire power and wealth.
These people will take advantage of group consciousness
Calling on people to leave nomadic life
settle in other areas
Build countries and cities
This is the origin of civilization
But after the city became prosperous,
will expand into an empire
Classes and inequality begin to emerge
In order to avoid being invaded by foreigners
The country must collect taxes and build an army
As a result, the people are in dire straits and resentment abounds.
The sense of community on which the founders relied has disappeared
At this time, another group of nomads with a sense of community can attack the city.
Overthrow the previous dynasty
So the Germanic barbarians attacked the Roman Empire
Mongols attack the Arab Empire
The entire history of human civilization repeats this cycle over and over again
In "Dune"
The male protagonist originally lived a settled life
Enjoy the prosperity of urban civilization
Serve as royal heir
Later, he left civilized society
Join the nomadic life of the Fremen
Just started to learn the sense of equal community Asabiyyah
Finally, we use this sense of community to call for revolution
Overthrow the corrupt Harkennen family
But when the Fremen came to power
They also began to be corrupted by urban life
Build a new empire
Lost the original sense of community equality
The story of "Dune" seems to embody Ibn Khaldun's historical philosophy
Human history is an eternal cycle of affirmation and denial of Asabiyyah
Paul’s slogan when calling for revolution
In the original work it was in Arabic
<font color=#FFE700FF>YA HYA CHOUHADA (Warriors live forever)</font>
This was actually during the Algerian War of Independence
Slogans against France
This war took place three years before Dune was published
The original author Frank Herbert deliberately quoted this sentence
The Fremen in Dune were also deliberately set to be Arabs.
It was because of the many important anti-colonial struggles of that era that
All happened in Islamic countries
But in the movie version
The war led by Paul
But it molds the Islamic people into superstitious people
A jihadist organization without initiative
Just passively worship the white savior
This was criticized by many Arab film critics as a typical Hollywood method of vilifying Islam.
In this regard, "Dune" has the same story structure as "Avatar"
They were all foreign white oppressors who originally had colonial plans.
But after accidentally breaking into the local aboriginal society,
transformed by local culture
Lead the oppressed to resist the colonial regime
As if the oppressed cannot spontaneously resist
Obviously the Fremen themselves know how to ride sandworms
Why wait until Paul shows up?
Only then can he lead them to fight a holy war?
But the difference between "Dune" and "Avatar" is that
Exposes all colonial regimes when they spread superstition
Everyone will see through it
The heroine Chani saw through the sisterhood's plan from the very beginning.
Therefore, the subjectivity of the ruled is partially preserved
But in the imperial struggle of Dune
In fact, the key force is neither the Atreides nor the Fremen.
But the non-human character Sandworm
The power of the sandworm is the center of the struggle between all parties.
Instead, people are in a passive role
The Hakenen family is ordered by the sisterhood
Jessica’s descendants must be left behind
So trying to harness the power of sandworms
Let Paul and Jessica die "naturally"
Paul of House Atreides must pass the sandworm ritual
Only then can you truly become a member of the Fremen
Imperial ecologist Kynes summoned sandworms and enemy troops to their deaths.
Demonstrated the Fremen's sandworm faith before dying.
it's here
We see what ecologist Fikret Berkes calls "sacred ecology"
"Cultural key species" exist in many Aboriginal societies
To perform a key function in an ecosystem and thus be endowed with human or sacred qualities
For example, the Cree people in eastern Canada believe that
Animals know what humans are thinking
If the hunter shows sincerity and respect
Only animals are willing to dedicate themselves
So the success or failure of hunting does not depend on the hunter
It depends on whether the animal wants to hunt for you
Hunters who don’t believe in this set of ethics will eventually return empty-handed.
So a good hunter is not because he has superb skills
But because he understands the ethics of reciprocity
In the movie "Journey to Suzuya"
Makoto Shinkai made a sacred ecological interpretation of Japan’s 311 earthquake
The power of earthquakes comes from earthworms in the world of the dead
This earthworm, like the sandworm, has no individual will.
Just an expression of the impulse of natural forces
Nature has its own spirituality
The bridge between the sacred world and the human world is the dream
This explains why many Aboriginal societies place a high value on dreams
When an Anishinaabe elder in Canada was asked how he knew about herbal medicine
He said he saw a vision in his dream
Dreamed that a bear came and gave him a certain plant
Tell him how to prepare the herbs
Knowledge was not invented by humans themselves
Rather, spiritual animals are passed down to humans.
<font color=#FFE700FF>Minister, have you been leading us to the place where the door opens? </font>
<font color=#FFE700FF>All the time</font>
In the early days, this kind of sacred ecology was regarded as superstitious and backward.
Until the past 20 years
It was only discovered by scholars that it is a key species with ecological functions.
The author of Dune once lived with the Quileute people, the indigenous people of North America.
Teach him how to fish and identify different plants and fish
It was this knowledge that inspired him to write The Sacred Ecology of the Sandworm
In these examples
We all see that nature has autonomy independent of man
This sacred ecology contrasts precisely with the ecology of empire
No longer exploit desert spices as resources
Instead, use the divinity in nature to fight against the enslavement of the empire.
etc.
What exactly is an empire?
In "Dune"
Each planet's empire is ruled by a family
But why ten thousand years in the future?
Human society will return to the feudal system
Controlled by the emperor and family empire?
Economist Yanis Varoufakis predicts
Our current capitalism is beginning to turn into "technological feudalism"
Global wealth is controlled by a handful of tech capitalists
in the near future
The resources of human society will be controlled by a few families
Zuckerberg family, Bill Gates family, Musk family
Capitalism will turn into a battle for the market between several big clans
on the other hand
The empire depicted in "Dune" is a planet in outer space colonized by a few families.
Humanity has nowhere to escape
Philosophers Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri believe that
After the collapse of the Soviet Union and the emergence of the Internet
Global capitalism becomes an empire without an external
Unlike in the past, capitalism had an imperial center
There is also an external resistance to the empire
Today’s capitalism is completely decentralized
Not attached to any stable workplace
Taking cases online allows people to become workers at any time and place
Online payment allows people to become consumers at any time and place
Today’s workers are like nomads
Make money wherever there are short-term contracts
In "Dune"
Paul was forced from a feudal empire to a nomadic life
It's like the capitalists who control the resources suddenly become the working class
But this identity change happened to allow Paul to change his perspective.
See how the Empire's development and warfare can turn a planet into a ruin
How can a few who monopolize resources make the majority bear the consequences of ecological disasters?
Thus
The dunes become a cautionary tale
How do contemporary people survive in the ruins of capitalism?
find the possibility of living
How to find the oasis again in the dunes?
Anthropologist Anna Tsing discovered
After the atomic bomb destroyed Hiroshima, Japan in 1945
A new life emerged from the ruins
Matsutake
The United States allowed legal deforestation after World War II
Logging companies destroy forest diversity on a massive scale
Plan to replicate high-priced tree species fails
But after the logging companies left
Something magical happened
Matsutake mushrooms start growing on abandoned land in Oregon
Matsutake-loving Japanese invest millions
Spent decades researching how to artificially cultivate matsutake mushrooms
Still can't find the answer
Why after the ecological disaster of capitalism
But the matsutake mushrooms grew again and again
Scientists discovered
This is because of the growth of matsutake mushrooms
Relying on multi-species symbiotic relationships
Matsutake mushrooms need to live on pine trees
Pine trees need mycorrhizal fungi to supply each other with nutrients
The pine tree must be passed down to the next generation
and need to attract birds to assist in sowing
This whole set of cross-species relationships
evolved together over the past tens of millions of years
But capitalism cannot see multi-species symbiosis
Just want quick financial returns
As a result, it was impossible to cultivate matsutake mushrooms.
Matsutake thus presents a set of possibilities for resisting the Empire
Resisting the logic of capital with cross-species alliances
Just like in the movie "I Am Legend"
The protagonist and his ally German Shepherd Sam
Fight zombies together in the apocalypse
Save human civilization from destruction
And in "Avatar"
The war against mining companies is about to fail miserably
Various species on the planet Avatar join the fray
Join forces to fight against the invasion of the capital empire
And in "Dune"
The Fremen and the surrounding ecological environment are a kind of cross-species alliance.
Sandworms are the main frontline force leading the anti-imperial war
Fremen will adjust their movement patterns to avoid disturbing the sandworms.
And the Marian ritual relies on the fluid secreted by tiny sandworms
When humans consume sandworm fluids
Will evolve into a new person
New sensory abilities emerge
Sandworms, spices, water of life, humans
This multi-species alliance
What makes Dune different from other eco-apocalyptic movies
The ecological apocalypse in "Mad Max"
It’s a fight for water resources
There is no subjectivity in other species
Ecological apocalypse in "Blade Runner"
It means giving way to artificial humans.
Questioning the reality of nature
But "Dune" doesn't just emphasize diverse alliances between species
It also implies that humans themselves are a mixture of multiple sources.
Paul's very existence is a hybrid
Paul is a male but has acquired abilities that are exclusive to women in the sorority.
And drank the water of life that only women can drink
In God Emperor of Dune, the sequel to Episode IV of Dune
The son born to Paul and Chani will even become one with the sandworm.
become a new hybrid creature
This takes us from "sacred ecology" to "symbiotic ecology"
Philosopher Donna Haraway pointed out
The structure of human life itself is a symbiotic system (sympoiesis) left by cross-species encounters.
Instead of human ancestors adapting to the environment and evolving step by step on their own, they built themselves
For example, human mitochondria
In fact, it is ancient aerobic bacteria that live in cells and form a mutually beneficial symbiosis.
were not excluded during the evolution process
Instead, they stay in the cell and evolve together.
Or maybe human lungs are actually homologous to fish fat?
But people have forgotten that they are part of the fish
Human DNA also contains the codes of many foreign viruses (accounting for 8%)
Just like Paul in "Dune", he is a diverse hybrid existence
Human beings have evolved to this day through cross-species encounters, infection, and coexistence.
So humans are actually more like symbionts assembled by a group of species.
Mixed with various bacteria and viruses from ancient times
No matter how many ruins capitalism has brought to human history
The power of cross-species alliances will continue to emerge
Matsutake and pine trees
Sandworms and Fremen
And the multi-species symbiotic evolution in humans
They all open up space for our imagination.
Realize that you are a cross-species being
Learn how to coexist and form alliances with various life forms
Before capitalism turns our planet into rubble
Dismantle empires with cross-species alliances