Y eah . H ello everyone , Welcom to Corrk says I'm Kor In. This episode , we'll discuss Zhang Y, uia , the vice chairman of the Central Milary Commission, who was recently taken down, and some of the problems reflected behind it on January 2 4t h , the official website of the Chinese Ministry of National Defense issued an announcement , declaring that Shu Zg Y uia , a member of the Central Polit Bureau and vice chairman of the Central Military C om mission, , and I ly , a member of the Central Milary Commission and chief of the Joint Staff Department, were suspected of serious violations of Discip and L aw , and it was decided to launch an investigation against them. The next . T oday , the People's Liberation Army published an editorial , saying that they would resolute win the decisive battle for protracted war and overall war against corruption in the military . It seems that the two were arrested because of corruption problems . H owever , when discussing the specific issues , the first two points were seriously undermining the Germanman responsibility system of the Central military commission, and seriously undermining the party's absolute leadership over the military. ,. Obviously, anticorruption is just a facade . the root cause is a political problem At. This point , Xi Jinping's purge of the military has officially reached or even surpased, that of Mao Z edon g. D uri ng, the Ma era ,. There were four cases of Central military commission, vice chairmen being purged Pg, Diuei, Lin, Diao, Geelong and Deng Xiaoping in the X era . There have also been four Xu, K, aiha, o , w, B, osan, g , he Donong and Zhong, Y ua ,. Considering the time span and intensity of the purges she has even surpassed M ao . I . M. Any experts have given analyses of this round of purges . One popular argument that Ziang and Luu's downfall was due to Xi Jinping's eagerness to attack T aiwa n , and these two were experienced commanders who knew the brutality of war and were relatively pragmatic , thus becoming moderate voices in the military. , hindering Zi's plan for unification and were therefore, purge from this ,. They conclude that Zi's plan to attack Taiwan is imminent and will happen within a year or two. Is. This argument valid . Will Taiwan really face unprecedented risks ,. In the latter part of this program, , I will try to express my views . But before that , I want to discuss two issues . The first is the nature of power and how it operates , especially within the top levels of the CCP . The second point, , and a question. Many people have is that from the Soviet Union to the Chinese Communist P arty , Purges often targeted highranking officials and generals , many of whom were executed . Why. Did these people even after seeing their colleagues fall one by one , rarely fight back or revolt . A ll right , without further ado before we officially . Be , I want to ask everyone a question , what conditions must a person possess to be considered powerful? ? I don't know if you've ever thought about this question. in historical dramas , isns't. There often a scene where an emperor orders, the execution of a minister , the emperor, says drag him out and execute him , and the guards on either side immediately come and drag him away , even if the emperors ordering the execution of a large group of people , Even. If those being dragged away or powerful generals Through the process , the people being executed, don't resist . and the guards never disobey Why. Did these people choose unconditional obedience instead of thinking about whether the emperor's order was reasonable , or whether the minister deserved to die . Some might say, isnn't that obvious because he's the emperor , he inherently has that power . let's look at another scenario . a coup or forced abdication in historical dramas. , We often see a powerful minister leading a group of ministers and guards to attack , forcing the emperor to abdicate or commit suicide . In. This case , the emperor's orders are useless ,. The guards on either side don't listen , and the supre ruler becomes a lamb to the slaughter . According to the logic above . Aren't you the emperor ,. Don't you inherently have power ,? Why are your words worthless. Now. Y eah . T. His involves the fundamental nature of power . What. We usually consider power actually includes two elements . F irs, t, , legitimacy, and second influence. , legitimacy refers to your title, , position and legality . For example , if you are the emperor or the chairman of the Central military commission, it creates a consensus that under normal circumstances, , people should listen to you. This legitimacy is like your work I with it ,. You can legitimately issue orders, and everyone implicitly agrees to obey you. Conversely, if someone doesn't listen to you , they need to justify their actions . for example, ,. Why did ancient usurpers mostly use the banner of cleansing the court instead of directly saying I want to rebel, because generally, everyone is still operating within the same system, , your subordinates , especially the lowerranking soldiers, share a consensus They acknowledge the other party as the emperor, and theoretically, they should obey him. If you rise up and cause trouble , you must explain why you're doing so, otherwise your actions will lack legitimacy, but having legitimacy alone isn't enough to maintain stable power , you also need real power So. What is real power? I it having money troops or control over the propaganda machine. Actually, these are all super . T. He essence of power lies in whether you become the central node in this network of relationships under normal circumstances, , power, , or rather, the network of relationships built around power should be hierarchical , meaning it has both vertical and horizontal connections . For example , the emperor and the governor of a certain province and the governor and the county magistrate of that province . These are all vertical relationships because they represent a superior subordinate hierarchy. The relationships between governors and governors or between county, magistrates and county magistrates are horizontal representing peer relationships. ,. Then you'll find that in this structure, theoretically , everyone has the potential to become a central node Of course, theoretically, the higher your position , the more advantage as you are in occupying the central node , but this advantage is actually limited if someone possesses natural leadership charisma , even with a temporarily lower position , they can still become the de facto central node. A typical example is Lu Bang I Lu Bang was just a magistrate in Pei County, a subordinate of Sha, who was the main force, but the large group of brothers around him recognized Lu Bang more treating him as their leader as a result, , when they later rebelled Lu Bang became the commander in chief, while S. Ha . C ame his deputy . This is what I said above , having legitimacy is good . But even without it ,. As long as you have charisma and strong interpersonal skills , you still have the opportunity to build your own small circle. , become a central node and compete with those in high positions of power . So. Imagine you or the emperor . Wouldn't, your biggest concern, be the emergence of such central nodes below you . You would want to do everything possible to prevent this possibility and ensure that there is only one core in the country yourself . So. How do you do that? Specifically, , you need to completely change the structure of the bureaucratic network of relationships . Transing it from a hierarchical structure to a new type of structure . Simply put the first step is to sever all horizontal connections . Governor Zhang San cannot have private dinners or gift exchanges with Governor Lee C , These people can only contact you unilaterally . This prevents the formation of a small group of governors LED by Zhong S an . But. Then you encounter another problem . Your individual capacity as limited , You can barely handle communicating with a dozen or 20 governors . But. There are thousands of county magistrates across the country . You can't possibly maintain direct contact with each one. Can you , you can't even remember all their names . So, you still have to delegate power , allowing the bureaucracy to manage itself . T here fore ,. You have to devise two methods to sever these vertical connections as well . The first is to establish a top- down monitoring system , which we often refer to as special agencies . For example , the famous genuway in the Eastern and Western Depots of the Ming dynasty . their job was to keep an eye on officials of all ranks , observing who they were interacting with privately S econ dly , a bottomup petition system was established where ministers reported directly to the emperor , before the petition system existed. , ministers memorials to the emperor had to go through an intermediary agency ,. This intermediary agency was called the Grand Secretary in the Ming Dysty and early Qing D yna sty , the Central Secretary in the Iperial Chancellry in the Tangan, Song dnasties and the imperial secretary in the Chin and Han D yna sties . In short ,. They all had to go through an intermediary ., but this intermediary process led to many abuses , officials in the intermediary agency might suppress your documents preventing them from being submitted or selectively report them. This could easily lead to the emperor's power being undermined , making him a puppet or a blind man in a cage ,. Therefore, during the reigns of Kangsxi and Y ong zang , the court developed the secret reporting system, which granted officials of a certain rank, or those specifically authorized by the emperor , the right to secretly report directly to the emperor without going through an intermediary agency . G eni ous aspect of this secret reporting system lies in its secrecy . F irs tly , the memorial You submit is invisible to anyone, except the emperor himself . S econ dly , who exactly has the right to submit these secret reports is also semi confidential . What. Does this mean It means that usually secret reporting is a right reserved for officials of the second rank and above ,. But the emperor would also privately grant this right to some officials of lower ran . the most famous example is Sao Swechin's ancestor , Sao Y in ,. The superintendent of Zh N ing , the superintendent of Zh Ning was just a minor official , but he also had the right to submit secret reports . The existing compilation of Kansi Emperororss handwritten an imperial edicts and memorials in Chinese includes more than 200 secret memorials submitted by Sao Yin Furthermore during the period before the Yongzang emper'ors reign , many lowran officials , such as those of the sixth and 7 ranks , including branch officials, , iron workers and warehouse managers. , were also exceptionally granted the privilege of submitting secret memorials . Y eah . T. His fact was unknown to others . Even, a first rank official or a powerful provincial governor wouldn't dare to casually offend those seemingly insignificant low- ranking officials around him because he couldn't be sure whether they possess this privilege of submitting secret memorials or whether they might file a report against him and bring about his downfall. The combination of these two sets of power mechanisms resulted in the complete severing of both horizontal and vertical connections within the entire bureaucracy. ,. You didn't know if there were spies planted by the emperor around you , nor did you know, if your subordinates were secretly filing reports against you under such circumstances, would you still dare to secretly gather with a few people for meals or form small clicks ,. Thus, a new network structure of power was finally formed , where all officials became isolated islands, , feeling and being able to be accountable only to the emperor . the emperor achieved a top- down control over everyone in the entire empire. , This is essentially the bureaucratic design. We often talk about today, where through espionage and information isolation, all citizens are completely controlled. When you can't connect with other nodes ,. How can you rebel rebellion requires money , soldiers and propaganda machinery ,. But the premise of all this is that you have the ability to connect and form alliances with those . possess and control these resources . So returning to the scenario we mentioned at the beginning ,. Why did the emperor order the death of the general? And why did the guards in attendants not to disobey? And why did the general not dare to resist , Because at that moment ,? Although the general nominally commanded thousands of troops on the informational and psychological level . he was a completely isolated island without any reliable allies . he didn't know if the guards around him where the emperor's loyalists guard Zhong San might have thought the general shouldn't die ., but he didn't know what guard Xi Wang Wu were thinking, so he didn't dare to act , everyone, under the pressure of this single line connection shows the safest course of action. O bedie nce , This is a prisoner's dilemma in the field of political science . But conversely, if a high- ranking official isolates the emperor on a deserted island . making himself the center of this new structure , It means he has seized de facto supreme power and can usurp the throne at any time . Some might think isn't this ancient history? , does the CCP today? Also have a similar system that allows Xi Jinping to control lowerle officials Que mark Y es , not only does it exist., but it has been comprehensively upgraded . F irs t ,. There's the secret police system . In ancient times , whether it was the Jinue or the East and West factories, , surveillance relied on people , and where there are people ,. There are always flaws , For example , the Zhongzhen Brothers in the movie " Brotherhood of Blades, dared to deceive their superiors and subordinates right under the Emperor's nose ,. But today, the CCP has established a seamless secret Police System that covers a scope far exceeding any regime in Human History from the Central Commission for Discipline Inspec and the National Supervision Commission to the Political and Leal Aairs Commission from the Ministry of State Security and the Ministry of Public Security to the Central Organization Department's Cadbury Supervision B urea u , you have the Cyberspace Administration and the Public Security Bureau for online activities . I . O verse as , you have the United F Work Department and for senior leaders in their entourage ,. There's a central B argu au . F urth. Erm ore , for military tigers like Johnhg, Yusia and Lu G enli ,. There are specialized military commission, discipline, inspection and supervision departments, and the surveillance conducted by these institutions. No longer requires someone hiding under your bed to spy on you. Instead, it uses various advanced, technological means , big data, , eavesdropping equipment, , mobile phone call records, , computers, Wechat, alape, social media records, travel records, consumption, records, and countless cameras worldwide. Even when you're asleep, they can monitor your heart rate . S, econ, dly , there's the informant system, which is an internal whistleblowing system within the system. , mainly divided into two categories . the first category is called internal reports. Simply put reporters in core media outlets like Shiinhua, newss, Agency, People's, Daily, or the P daily have a special skill called internal reporting. What they write is not for the public to see, but is directly reported to the highest level through specialized confidential channels . This information flow, completely bypasses various levels of officials in local governments, and the military. It is a de facto secret system used by the highest level to gain insight into the grassroots and monitor the movements of officials. Let me add one more point regarding the question of Maoi Dong's responsibility for major disasters such as the great famine and the cultural . the pro Mao leftwing pins often argued that the bad things were all done by the officials or implementers at the lower levels . these people not only committed wrongdoings , but also deceived those above them, , leading to Chairman Mao being misled and unaware of how serious the situation actually was, thus resulting in misjudgments . This view reflects ignorance of the CCP's secretive system, In fact Mao's understanding of the overall situation in C hina . both in breadth and detail , far surpassed that of any regional official. To put it bluntly, he probably knew more about the situation in a particular county in Hanan than the county. Had himself The reason. He made those inhumane decisions was simply because he didn't care . beside internal struggles. There's another more common and regularized practice called party criticism in self- critic sessions and democratic life meetings . First. Let's talk about party criticism in self- ct ic military officers above a certain rank and local officials above a certain level usually have to criticize each other's party spirit. Every week quarter at party branch or party committee meetings . This criticism is recorded in their performance reviews . they must point out each other's actual problems, such as insufficient party spirit, lack of loyalty, , excessive bureaucracy and passive work attitude. If you too . O thers will criticize you for having insufficient party spirit . Then. There are the Democratic life meetings usually held once a year , which cads at certain levels are required to attend and whose proceedings are recorded . The format is similar to the former , but the focus is slightly different party criticism and self-criticism mainly involves mutually stabbing each other in the back, while Democratic life meetings focus on self- critic essentially airing one's own dirty laundry. Through this system. The highest power not only legitimately obtains everyone's black book reports, but more importantly, , it can create friction and suspicion between different levels and individuals . imagine, even if Mayor Zhang wants to win over party Secretary Wang, he might still be wary because his criticism of Wang at the last meeting was a bit harsh, will Wang resent him and think he's stabbing him in the back Under the logic of the CCP's operation. Let's look back at the question we raised at the beginning ,. Isn't it clear why, despite such intense purges and the high turnover in the military leadership, we still rarely see anyone challenging Xi Jinping and rebelling against him , because according to the understanding of ordinary peopleh, Yuia hold a high position and the various systems of the army or . S ub ordinates you yourself have led troops in battle . So. How could you be arbitrarily manipulated by Xi J inp ing , who has never even touched a gun , The reason is simple as we analyzed above ,. He has been completely isolated , completely losing the ability to collllude with other military officers or local officials . This is also why I never use the public struggle narrative to analyze the reasons for internal power struggles in C hina . Y eah . B eca use the premise of a public struggle is conflict . since it's a struggle , you will inevitably see, give and take , attack and counterattack. , people forming teams, , people pressing the attack and setting traps . For example , in a TV series , the legend of G enhe nhuan , the Empress and Wafei and Waafei, and Genhuan all have their own alliances and counter alliance. Ance s , you make a move , I counter it , Nobody can completely defeat the other side at once . H owever , in these rounds of purges of high- ranking military officials , you don't see this kind of strategic maneuvering . All. You see is disappearance , notification, , classificationification and punishment . A whole set of cold , ruthless procedures, , as simple as taking a stake out of the refrigerator . Some people might think Even if Zhang, Yuuxia and others can't collllude with each other and form a public struggle alliance . Couldn't. They retaliate in kind , Every time Xi Jinping carries out a purge ,. Doesn't he raise the banner of anti-corruption . So? Couldn't. They also collect some incriminating evidence of Xi Jinping's corruption and fight back. B him down with them. This idea is a typical example of legalistic thinking . What. Does that mean if you lived in a Democratic country . And? There was enough evidence , this logic might hold . B ut in C hina ,. This isn't a matter of facts , but a matter of power ,. First, we need to understand something in the CCP system. , corruption is never a matter of individual moral decay , but a pre-installed software recognized by the entire system . A nyon e, who can rise within this system is corrupt because it's your entry ticket into this circle Just like the line from that leash Wegen's dialogue ,. If I don't take bribes , how can I get promoted ? If? I don't take bribes. , how can I make progress quote? ? T here fore , if you want to investigate whether it's Xi Jinping or any other official , none of them can escape because they definitely all have problems. , but the key lies in who monopolizes the power of judgment who holds the remote control for convictions . think about it supposeose you as a high- ranking. Military official have evidence of Xi Jinping's corruption, , abuse of power or even treason. How can you use this to bring him down going through legal procedures from the disciplinary committee to the courts, the decision on whether to investigate and under what pretendense is entirely in their hands, What about going to the media, all the propaganda machines and internet firewalls are under their control, launching an attack at a high-level meeting. As mentioned earlier, , you don't even have the opportunity to collude with your colleagues What about putting the information on a USB drive and having someone take it abroad to the foreign media while you might be able to get it out. The question is even if the foreign media exposed everything What would happen. Do you really expect the military and law enforcement within China to suddenly have a change of heart in stage a coup or rest Xi Jinping. It's impossible because he has already monopolize the power of judgment at every level. So let's consider this from another perspective supposeuppose, you are Zhang Shaw or any other high ranking . O ici al facing this system of purges that you are completely powerless against What is your most rational choice ,. You can only comply , meekly accept the investigation , and relinquish your power ,. Although you might lose your position, , be imprisoned, , or even face a life sentence . at least you can save the lives of your family . This is actually the same logic as when ancient emperors, committed atrocities and officials still committed suicide to show their loyalty At. This point ,. Some might be curious and say, I. Remember that during the Zhg Zemin era, , wasn't there a system of nine dragons ruling the water. and wasn't there also a coup attempt by Zhou Yong before Xi Jinping came to power at that time ,. Some highranking officials still had the ability to challenge the top leader and organize a decent counterattack . Why. Is this mechanism completely ineffective today? , you mentioned earlier that to establish a dictatorship, you need to transform the network structure into a new type of structure , I understand that . but how exactly did Xi Jinping do it This leads us to two other questions First. Why does Xi Jinping conduct regular purges among high- ranking officials, including those in the military Second do officials within the system actually support Xi Jinping's actions . Let's address the first point As we mentioned earlier . M. Any firmly believe that Xi Jinping's purge of Zhang Sha indicates that he is extremely eager to attack T aiwa n. The reason given is that Zhang Yui is a childhood friend of Xi Jinping, and that he was promoted by Xi Jinping himself . the fact that even someone like him was taken down, surely means that he obstructed Zi's grand plans , Xi is essentially sacrificing his pawns to achieve his goals H owever ,. This perspective only considers things from Xi Jinping's point of view , completely ignoring Zhg Yus's perspective. We know that Zhang Yuuxi had already purged several rounds of high- ranking military officials before this three vicechmen were taken down, and hundreds of generals and above were arrested. F urth. Erm, ore , many of the investigated officers were recently promoted and were considered to be close associates of Xi Jinping. If all of this is in preparation for war . what does that indicate? It indicates that Xi Jinping is determined to take T aiwa n., and he will eliminate anyone who stands in his way in this situation, , if you were Zhang Yui, would you dare to openly tell Xi Jinping that the timing for attacking Taiwan is not right . that the chances of victory are low , and then list several reasons , wouldn't it be suicide ,? Some might say, even if you don't confront him directly , couldnn't, you do it indirectly ,. The problem is ,. As we mentioned . E arlie r, the party state has a whole system of surveillance and informing. Do you think that even if Xi Jinping doesn't know your colleagues and subordinates around you don't know these people are eager to bring you down and take your place . Do. You think they wouldn't secretly report you in this atmosphere of terror created by the largescale purges . everyone in the military system from Zhong Yuuxia to some lowerlel cads is not thinking about whether or not to attack Taiwan or what impact attacking Taiwan would have on China's national environment, but rather how to survive the next round of purges at this point ,. Some might ask if it's not because of attacking T aiwa n , then why is Xi Jinping purging the military? And it's not just one or two times but a continuous purge , I. He just doing it for fun ,. This brings us back to what we mentioned earlier. , How did Xi Jinping transform the nine dragons governing the waters system of the Zhg Zemin era into today's one person's absolute rule in the Zhg Zemin era , the top leaders , especially the standing committee members of the Pobuau, each managed their own area and simultaneously form some inspoken, but rarely broken tacit agreements, such as the rule that the top leader can only serve two terms and must step down after that time. For example, , you can't be a standing . Me. And you can't be from a red family in this situation . if you were a princeling . would you unconditionally cowo to the top leader with a smile and feigned obser vien ce , Certainly not , right, after all, , you can't touch me anyway . and you'll retire soon . So who's afraid of whom the a powerful families just have a slightly bigger table . There's no need to fear them. Just deal with imp properly . This is how the high- le officials viewed Hu Jintao at the time . H owever ,. After X, Jinping came to power, He quickly began a large scale purge in the name of anticorruption . Neither the red families nor the standing committee members had any immunity anymore . Then. He abolish the term limit . which means your fear will no longer be limited to 10 years . as long as she is alive . The purges will continue . Besides showing loyalty and unconditional obedience . you have no other choice. This is actually a traditional skill of the Soviet regime called shaping loyalty through terror to achieve totalitarianism. The most effective method is killing . Therefore Zei's continuous purges may not necessarily be for attacking T aiwa n. But more likely simply a routine operation over the past decade to reshape the power structure . Now. Let's talk about the second point. I want to tell you a very . I ntu iti ve idea . X Jinping's move towards totalitarianism, actually has the support of the majority of people within the party . Many people share this consensus . Power cannot be dispersed . if it is , there will be chaos. , isn't that strange as a highran cad ri ,? Why, would you support someone who will carry out a large scale purge after coming to power? , someone who might even purge you? , Are you all mentally ill masssochists The reason is simple in a highly uncertain environment. , being oppressed is easier to survive than engaging in power struggles . imagine if you are a provincial level cad ri , what does dispersed power mean? , It means that power is everywhere . everyone has the power to decide your fate . if you listen to a B will retaliate. If you follow C . they might kill you after they come to power in this situation ,. You don't necessarily have to do anything wrong . you might be purged just for being on the wrong side . but once power is centralized , the rules become simpler ,. You only have one boss , although he is short- temped harsh and purs people at the drop of a hat, As long as you are absolutely obedient and don't talk back. Life is relatively predictable , You don't have to worry about choosing sides because there's only one. side to choose . So. Many people don't actually love authoritarianism . they are simply afraid of uncertainty . In conclusion , I want to say that another important reason why I don't think Xi Jinping is in a hurry to attack. Taiwan is that Zaii's purges in recent years don't align with the logic of preparing for war . a little thought makes it clear for an army to maintain sufficient combat capability . stability in the command system is essential. When many people criticize the Song dnasty's weak military capabilities , they often mention a crucial point , The emperor ,. In order to prevent generals from rebelling, , implemented a system of regular rotation of generals, leading to a situation where soldiers didn't know their generals and generals didn't know their soldiers. Newly appointed generals were thrown into battle before they had time to adapt with unfamiliarity between the command and execution levels . How could such an army fight . This logic still holds true today if she really wanted to attack It's unlikely, he would remove someone like Zhang Yuia, who possesses combat experience and immense prestige within the military before the war even begins . even if you think Zhang Yuia is disobedient, and his combat efforts aren't sufficiently resolute Could't. He have simply promoted someone ambitious and eager to fight during the last round of promotions instead of promoting him . A nd then purging him , you didn't suddenly decide to attack Taiwan today . Y ou can understand this by looking at Mao Zong before the Korean War in 1950 . Lin Biow was unwilling to lead troops to fight the Americans in K orea ,. But Mao simply replaced him with Pg D ih ue . He didn't purge Li Biow at that time because it would be detrimental to the upcoming war . Some might say there are counter ar . . D id n ' t Stalin conduct a major purge before invading F inland , dictators sometimes have unclear thinking and make foolish mistakes ,. But the problem is, the situations faced by Stalin and Xi Jinping today are very different , simply put , according to the logic of those who support Xi Jinping attacking T aiwa n , X should have set a goal , for example, , to attack Taiwan within five to 10 years. , then found that the high- ranking military officers were disobedient , and then gradually purge those who didn't want to fight , or those who were particularly corrupt in affecting the Army's combat effectiveness, , promoting a group of officers willing and able to fight , but the Soviet invasion of Finland didn't follow. This logic , According to the timeline ,. The Great purge was from 1 93 7 to 1 93 8 , while the Soviet Finnish war was in 1939 . although they seemed to have happened close together , Stalin only seriously considered attacking Finland after the signing of the Molotov Ribbentrop pack in August 1939 . According to later decclassified materials before that , Stalin had no plan to attack F inland . Y eah . F inland was just a small variable on his chessboard . In. Other words, , Stalin didn't prepare much for the attack on F inland . It was an impromptu action after the treaty placed Finland within the Soviet sphere of influence . At. The same time ,. This also demonstrates the purpose of Stalin's great purge , which , as we've mentioned many times before, , was to consolidate his power by eliminating rivals and forcing former colleagues like Bcherin and Zinenove to submit to him and become his servants . T here fore ,. If we have to make an analogy , it should be said that what Xi Jinping has been doing in recent years is essentially a repetition of Stalin's great purge ,. This purge is not for the purpose of attacking T aiwa n., it is simply to consolidate his own power , even without any external war ,. This purge will not stop , and those who constantly express their loyalty or those who have just been promoted and seem to belong to Zi's faction or inner circle will not be truly safe. The idea that if your obedient enough , you won't be purged is just an illusion, because in Xi Jinping's eyes , there is no one truly trustworthy , and he doesn't care whether you are truly loyal ,. What he cares about is creating an atmosphere of fear that makes you grovl on the ground . P raying that the iron fist doesn't fall on you and preventing you from having any rebellious thoughts only in this way, do dictators feel a little bit safer . O kay ,. That's all for today's program. If. You have any questions. , please leave a message or send me an email . See you next time .