In the old days when you used to say around the 
water cooler that the New York Times says blank  
The New York Times might have been lying 
to us that that might have been propaganda  
But was it better to have a shared view 
of truth even if it was false than to  
have 50 truths? And you can't even have 
a conversation now. Right. This is like  
having 10,000 reality choices where we are 
now. It's like pick your reality. [MUSIC] 
I'm Kmele Foster with Big Think and I'm delighted 
to be here in conversation with Dan Carlin of  
Hardcore History fame, common sense. I think 
of you as a historian, Dan, but also a kind  
of public intellectual. I'm not sure which of 
those terms you more prefer or perhaps you have  
some other way of describing what it is that 
you do. They both sound wrong. And historians  
absolutely wrong. Public intellectuals amorphous 
enough so we can have fun with it. But just your  
local neighborhood friendly podcaster with 
the Spider-Man guy say? At the present moment,  
the sensibility that a lot of people have is that 
something is a skew. There is intense political  
division. There is high even at the moment 
despite the fact that most Americans, it seems,  
are beginning to identify as independents. It 
still feels like there's just a sharp political  
divide within the country. We've had a number 
of contentious elections recently. We've had the  
results of those elections questioned persistently 
on perhaps both sides of the political spectrum.  
But I think most prominently after the 2020 race, 
we still have lingering questions related to that  
in some people's minds. And at the moment, the 
notion of guardrails, constitutional protections  
and safeguards, norms even, all of those things 
seem to be in jeopardy and important respects.  
We have various cases that are testing the 
authority of the courts. We have many people who  
are interested in reforms that would forever, not 
forever, but would certainly meaningfully change  
the composition of the courts and their roles. 
Is that what we're talking about when we say  
here that all of these things feel almost not so 
much up for grabs, but at least much more fluid  
than they have at any other point in my lifetime? 
I think where we get into trouble with some of  
these things is we're looking for, and I think 
it's the way we divide history books too, where  
you have chapters. So something happens and we 
realize we've entered into a new era where I feel  
like there's much more of a continuum. I'll go 
listen to some of the punk albums I used to listen  
to when I was 14 years old and you'll listen to 
the dead Kennedys and the lead singer, Jellaby,  
offers talking about the stuff we're doing in 
Central America and all these things. And stuff  
that this is all pre-internet, pre-digital, all 
this kind of stuff, but he's talking about things  
that morphed into the now. And that's when you 
realize how long some of these trends have been  
germinating. That's maybe a good way to put it. I 
would suggest that what we have now is the logical  
end result, but being a continuum, we're not at 
the end. We're getting farther down the road. This  
is all stuff that to me, we were talking about, 
and this gets to what you were saying earlier,  
in an amorphous sense. That we're on our way to 
something. I'm not going to talk about what to do  
once we get there, because I don't know what it's 
going to look like when we get there. But I feel  
like we've been on this path for a long time and 
I could suggest that if we zoom out even farther,  
when we know the story 10 years from now, 
20 years from now, I think we're going to be  
able to trace back the roots of now to 30, 40, 50 
years ago. And that's always the problem, I think,  
when we as human beings living in the story, try 
to figure out what's going on, is that so much of  
what's going on started before we got here. It's 
like the old Marx line that you don't get to make  
history the way you want. You inherit a world 
that was created by other people and that has  
constraints that those other people were dealing 
with. And then we add new elements, right? It's  
their world from 1960 plus the internet plus 
this plus that has changing moral values plus,  
you know, and add a bunch of different things. So, 
I mean, I feel like we're just in a more intense  
version of where we were when I was 14 years old. 
But those intense elements that have been added,  
the internet, social media, all these kinds of 
things, they keep dialing up the amplitude. So  
everything we were dealing with, for example, 
politically, or what they used to talk about the  
1980s and the 1990s is trying to figure out a soft 
landing from the US post-war dominance, right? The  
hegemony that because we were the one power that 
wasn't devastated, that we were feeding, I mean,  
there was a sugar high, a historical sugar high 
that we had after 1945 that inevitably was going  
to come down as the rest of the world caught 
up. But what was that going to look like for  
the average American right on the street? So I 
remember in the 1980s when we were dealing with  
Japan starting to make cars that were getting into 
it. I mean, this was all a very big deal, but you  
don't see that as part of the larger picture, 
which is the coming off of the sugar high, the  
rest of the world catching up. And then you throw 
in these elements that have never existed before.  
I keep bringing up the internet because to me, 
that's the big, um, the big X in our equation,  
right? The part that didn't exist previously, 
because otherwise as a history nut, I'm going to  
attach this to similar circumstances in the past. 
But that's the element that didn't exist before,  
and that to me is the wild card. And when we 
watch our kids starting to attach themselves  
to a computer at the hip at 10 or 11 or 12 years 
old, I think it's reasonable to ask what are they  
going to do? And then collectively, what does 
it do to society? And how does that change the  
dead Kennedys talking about what they were talking 
about when I was 14? You know, I mean, I feel like  
we're on the continuum trying to make sense of 
it. And to me, it's easier for us to look back 10  
or 20 years and now look and say, okay, I can see 
what I was talking about in the 90s and how that's  
playing out now. It's so difficult for me to do 
a common sense show now because we like to focus  
on solutions and clear thinking and all those 
kinds of things. And I feel like from where we're  
looking at things in the mix, I don't know how you 
do that. I don't know how you do that, honestly.  
Yeah, Martin Gurri had a book that I thought 
was pretty great. And for me, it was incredibly  
clarifying with respect to just how to think about 
where we find ourselves now called the Revolt of  
the Public. And it's similarly focused on the, I 
think, what it called the information tsunami. And  
specifically, it's the Internet, of course, but 
mass media more broadly and the Internet making  
all of that so widely available. So many voices 
being able to kind of communicate all at once,  
the elites essentially losing the ability to kind 
of have this monopoly on narrative shaping. But  
the gatekeepers. Yeah. Yeah. So that certainly 
feels like a kind of fundamental element of  
what's happened in our politics. I think that 
we have a tendency to think about the ways in  
which say Barack Obama and Donald Trump are very 
different from one another. But when you look at  
how similar they are to one another in terms 
of their kind of ascendancies into politics,  
Barack Obama was a political outsider who really 
wasn't his turn at the time that he found himself  
with a democratic nomination and then ultimately 
winning the presidency. And Donald Trump,  
similarly, a political outsider, essentially not 
so much a grassroots guy because he's very much a  
celebrity, even before he made his ascent in 
politics. But it was certainly not his time.  
The party was incredibly resistant during his 
first winning presidential run. And even in his  
second victory, it seems that he was a very kind 
of surprising force to many people, I think, even  
in his own party. The expectation after 2020 was 
that Donald Trump was over. He probably weren't  
going to see him again. And plenty of people were 
surprised by the fact that again, he was able to  
leverage a lot of the same tools communicating 
directly with the public leveraging social media,  
essentially establishing his own social media 
company. And I think it's hard to understate  
just how essential all of that is to the context 
that we find ourselves in, the fact that it feels  
like it's hard to even find agreement about what 
the actual facts are about circumstances that are  
going on right now. But relatedly with respect to 
circumstances that have transpired in the past,  
what is in fact true is something that's really 
hard to make sense out of at a time when we've  
never had more access to information and never had 
more outlets that are at least looking into these  
things, however well resourced or they are or not. 
I always think of the Steve Bannon line flooding  
the zone with crap, right? That that was going 
to be a little less pleasant than that. Yeah,  
but the whole idea was how do we conceal the 
important things amongst a ton of unimportant  
things so that by the time you figure out 
what is important versus what's not important,  
it's already a done deal. The fact that somebody 
has enough input into the public informational  
sphere so that they can do that is a change 
from the old days. You mentioned gatekeepers,  
gatekeepers is the way we used to think about 
them, right? And we would slam the fact that  
the gatekeepers, I mean, I always tell this 
story because it's so indicative and young  
people always, their eyes always get so big when 
I tell them. But I remember as a kid in the 70s,  
we used to come out of the supermarket and you 
would see every car in the parking lot had been  
flired. Somebody gone in Xeroxed, their messages, 
they'd put it under every windshield wiper. And I  
joke all the time to my kids that that was the old 
version of social media, right? If you wanted to  
get your word out, that was how you used to do it. 
And you know, it would always be some cult or some  
weird thing that was, you know, that you'd never 
put it. The gatekeepers would keep from getting  
in the regular media, but that was how it used 
to be. You couldn't flooding the zone with crap  
was a lot harder to do in the old days, right? 
And I've had a lot of conversations with people  
is about shared facts. This question about, can 
you have a society where debate and stuff like  
that is important if you don't have a sort of a 
touchstone where you can say, okay, that's true  
because so-and-so said it was true. And in the 
conversation, we all agreed that in the old days,  
when you used to say around the water cooler, that 
the New York Times says blank, and that used to be  
enough to settle whether it was a fact or not, 
that the New York Times might have been lying to  
us, that that might have been propaganda. But 
was it better to have a shared view of truth,  
even if it was false, than to have 50 truths? 
And you can't even have a conversation now.  
So I've had a bunch of arguments with people 
about, you know, the nature of truth. Can you  
have conversations over things where we have 
different worldviews? And I mean, that's the  
problem I have as a person who likes to have a 
good conversation argument or debate today, is we  
never get past the, you know, who are your sources 
or what are your facts? We never get into what  
we would have called in the old days the meat of 
the discussion, because we never get to, I mean,  
we differ over the reality we see if that makes 
sense. And the question then that I would have is,  
can you have a situation where we're all occupying 
our own little information or reality niches? I  
mean, is that even a thing? And I'm not sure, I 
keep looking for historical analogies where we've  
been in other periods like that. And I know they 
existed, but the difference might be you can find  
areas where there may be an alternate reality. 
So you have reality A that most people believe  
and then alternate reality B. This is like having 
10,000 reality choices where we are now. It's like  
pick your reality. And I can't decide if this is 
an integral phase where we're like ironing things  
out. So in 20 or 30 years, we'll go, wow, that 
was a weird, you know, inner-regnum that we were  
living in. Or whether this is the new reality. 
And that gets back to what we were saying about,  
how do you do a common sense show or anything to 
talk about these things when we're still trying to  
figure out what it is we're even seeing, if that 
makes sense. I suspect it isn't quite binary, but  
it almost feels like I could describe two possible 
futures here. One where things get meaningfully  
worse, where there is exceptional levels of 
distrust of all of the important institutions  
where people are kind of finding their narrative. 
Wherever they want to splintering all the way  
down. I kind of call that now. That's what I'm 
talking about. But say it gets worse. Say that  
gets more difficult to navigate. And then there's 
another possibility, which interestingly for me  
could be brought on by much the same forces. 
There's this sense that there's nothing I can  
really trust that we develop, but we potentially 
develop some cultural antibodies where we're  
better able to make decisions about what is true 
and what isn't true, where we don't become cynical  
about everything, but become kind of usefully, 
functionally skeptical of a great many things.  
And when I look around the information ecosystem, 
I see the ascent of all this AI generated content,  
for example. I know for myself, when I'm consuming 
stuff on social media or encounter some news  
story, I'm always asking the question out, is this 
real or is it fake? And I'm not just looking for  
someone to fact check it for me. I just have this 
understanding that not only could I be duped by  
this, but a lot of elite talent who is supposed 
to know better could be duped by this as well.  
And if we find ourselves developing those muscles 
and new publications and new institutions start to  
spring up, that can actually help us sort out and 
a fact from fiction. It feels like that's kind of  
another very real possibility and that there is 
perhaps some reason for optimism at this point  
that we might actually find ourselves in a 
world like that. I mean, is that optimistic  
story something that you think might be credible 
here? I love your term antibodies. I love your  
term because I think that's a good way to put 
it because I always say there's a fork in the  
road always ahead of us, right? Things can get 
better, things can get worse. The better thing,  
because every time I bring something like 
that up, somebody writes me and says, "Well,  
it's funny you mentioned that I was going to 
get in touch with you." We started a new company  
where we're creating a news app that will help you 
filter. In other words, there are people who see  
the need and are trying to figure out if this is a 
problem that's been exacerbated by technology can  
technology get us out of the problem. The answer 
could be possibly. The reason I'm doing a podcast  
now is I started a tech company with some buddies 
back in the late 1990s. One of the things we were  
working on is something I called news based on 
your views. It was going to be sort of like if  
you think about a webpage with a slider at the 
top. The slider allowed you to move the politics  
of the page you were looking. If you imagine the 
simplest way to look at it, think about left,  
right, and center. You go to the webpage, it's a 
news site like the Dredge report or anything else,  
and in the center is the default. If you turn it 
to the left or the right, the stories all change.  
It's a combination of stories that the left 
might not have covered that you see on the right,  
or it's the same story, the same headline, 
but from a right-wing outlet or a right-wing  
viewpoint. The goal wasn't to isolate you from the 
other side's viewpoint. The goal was to educate  
you on just what you were saying. How does the 
news media take an event like today's story? The  
president has a near assassination attempt. Oh my 
gosh, how do the different outlets cover that? If  
you could literally shift on the same outlet and 
watch the story change, watch the writer change to  
a more conservative writer or a less conservative 
writer. See how the headlines, see how the photos,  
I thought it was an improvement on media 
literacy. But you mentioned antibodies,  
which is another way to look at it in more of a 
pendulum sense, right? Because we have this need,  
my stepfather used to say that the greatness of 
America was this, we build a better mouse trap  
idea. Well, that's the antibody idea, right? The 
pendulum swings and we have this obvious need.  
People can't figure out, fact from fiction. We're 
drowning in misinformation. Is there a need then  
that the better mouse trap can fulfill? I don't 
know the answer to the question. I just know that  
I think, I could think of professors back in 
history class that would say that everything  
that we're experiencing now is a version of 
what we used to experience only worse. I mean,  
when you think about the impact that things like 
Gutenberg's Bible and moveable print and all that  
sort of things have, I mean, it's a similar vibe, 
if you will. A similar destabilization of the way  
things were, and a lot of people wondering about 
what this means for us. This is obviously, you  
know, amplitude-wise far above anything we've ever 
had. But it's interesting if you use it as sort  
of a connection to those earlier destabilization 
platforms and ask yourself how we got ourselves  
out of those problems. I think we have two 
different kinds of situations, though. You have  
a situation in a non-free country where the people 
really have no input and it doesn't matter what  
facts they believe because they're not impacting 
the leadership decisions anyway. You think like a  
Putin's Russia, or you think about our situation, 
or Europe, or countries that are supposed to be  
democracies or republics where the information 
and informative level of the population is  
absolutely crucial to the system working out the 
way it's supposed to. And then you ask yourself,  
have we created something that breaks our system 
if you keep people from knowing what's going on by  
flooding the zone with crap? And the answer to 
that question is unknown, which is why I'm not  
doing a common sense show about it. I feel like 
an observer more than an advocate. I used to know  
where things were going. I could talk about that 
intelligently. I feel like I'm just along for the  
ride now, like all of us are, you know, if that 
makes sense. Sure, sure. So we've zeroed in on the  
kind of cultural dynamics, the rise of particular 
technologies, this really robust information  
ecosystem that we find ourselves in, which pretty 
fractured. Robust is a nice way to put it. But I  
want to talk about some of the other institutions, 
and particularly our political institutions. I'm  
very curious about something I've heard you 
talk about in the past, executive power, which  
is something that has expanded pretty reliably 
over the course of many, many administrations,  
and the current administration is certainly 
no exception to that. They've made a lot of  
kind of unprecedented changes with respect to 
attempting to do things via executive order and  
pronouncement. I suspect we all know, but I'll say 
that Congress doesn't really legislate in the way  
that it has historically. In fact, it's largely 
kind of separated itself from that responsibility  
and obligation. They barely even pass budgets 
anymore, which has forced the courts to do a  
great deal more. So I offer all that as context 
for what I'm going to say next, because one,  
the institutions were designed, and there was an 
expectation that they would work together, or at  
least be these kind of counterbalancing for the 
rest of the world. But when the legislature isn't  
doing nearly as much as it used to or was expected 
to, the executive branch is doing a heck of a lot  
more than perhaps it ought to, and certainly than 
it was expected to. And the courts are, it seems,  
still playing their traditional role, trying to 
adjudicate these disputes over what can and can't  
be done under the law by the legislature, what the 
proper restrictions on the executive branch ought  
to be. But there is a lot of concern about whether 
or not the courts will continue to be able to play  
that role. And I'm curious about your thoughts 
on that, given what you've seen historically,  
if we've perhaps gone through periods like this 
before, and you think things are about kind of  
normal where the courts are concerned. And then I 
want to talk about executive power in particular.  
And if you think that we've seen, again, just 
kind of, you talked about this steady progression  
that we can kind of look at history as 
something that, wow, this unprecedented  
thing is happening. Versus, yeah, we've 
kind of been on this trajectory for a while.  
And certainly with executive power, it feels like 
we've been on this trajectory for a while, but  
it also feels unsustainable. Well, the thing to 
remember about executive power is it is tempting,  
and not just for the executive, but for everyone 
who wants the same things the executive is trying  
to do. And this is something where, I mean, people 
get angry with me and they accuse me of being,  
they'll say, you're both sides are, right? 
Because every time, and I'm a devil's advocate,  
I absolutely am. So anytime I go too far on one 
side, I always even up on the other side. But  
what I try to tell people is that it's okay to 
say that one party's been worse in one respect  
or another at this time or at that time on the 
question of executive power. But when you've got  
a trend that takes decades and decades, some would 
say going back to Andrew Jackson, I mean, you can  
date it whenever you want, but that's going to be 
a bipartisan thing. And to me, the biggest issue,  
and I have this discussion with people all the 
time, not enough people pay attention to the fact  
that the Constitution's number one goal is not 
efficient legislating. It is tyranny prevention.  
And we pay a huge price in this country for 
the inefficiencies in our constitutional design  
because it's trying to keep those powers separate, 
because it's trying to keep too much power from  
ending up in any of the single branches. Now, the 
truth of the matter is, is if you want to make  
progress on any number of issues, we'd be better 
off throwing that out the window. That tyranny  
prevention stuff causes us all kinds of headaches. 
But you see how much it matters when we come close  
to really needing it. And I think that's a perfect 
case. All those things that you bring up can be  
explained as attempts to try to do a better job at 
passing what people who are currently in the Trump  
situation, they'd like to pass it. And they'd like 
to pass an agenda that people like the Heritage  
Foundation have in one form or another been 
pushing for 40 years. So the last thing that they  
want to hear is that Congress needs to interfere 
more and slow things down and re-establish  
guardrails and all these kinds of things, which is 
the same thing that liberals would have felt like  
during FDR's administration when he's trying to 
pull people out of the depression, but doing so in  
ways that increase the tyranny potential, right? 
So this is the, in my view, the problem we have  
as a country is our inability to understand that 
we have a two-party system that has developed in a  
country that has nothing in the founding documents 
that design that at all. There's nothing in there  
about Democrats. There's nothing in there about 
Republicans. There's nothing in there about Wigs.  
There's nothing in there about Federalists. The 
founder is disliked factions, as they called them,  
which would have been their word for parties. 
That's probably unrealistic, but it's important  
to realize that what we have now and what has 
developed organically over 250 years is not  
part of the design. You know, when we talk about, 
and I've talked about this for years, you know,  
when you get on the radio and you start talking 
about wanting third-party members or independence  
to run more, boy, do you get a lesson in how hard 
that is? Because over 250 years, the two parties  
have managed to give themselves, let's call it, 
it's like an automatic tournament berth in like a  
basketball tournament or something like that. The 
Democrat Republican automatically get in, somebody  
else has to really, really be extraordinary 
to make it in there, and that's wrong. And  
what it does is it, my stepdad would say it's a 
competition question. We can't get better anymore  
because if you don't like the Donald Trump 
administration, then you get to be pushing  
the Chuck Schumer side of things. And there was a 
great book. This is actually on point, but there  
was a book by a Harvard Law Professor Lawrence 
Lessig. He's made it free. It's on the internet  
now, if you want it. It's called Republic Lost. 
And I love the way he designed the book because  
it's supposed to show you the problems that have 
developed in our system. And he understands that  
because the problems are bipartisan, that the 
arguments need to be bipartisan also. So every  
page is sort of set up so that you have the 
left-wing argument for what he's saying on one  
side of the page and the right-wing argument for 
what he's saying on another because unless you're  
a corrupt person yourself, or unless you don't 
think you can ever get what you want done past,  
because most people don't want it, then you don't 
benefit from a corrupt system either. And what  
Lessig was trying to point out is that both of 
our parties have over time become embedded in this  
system, where, for example, he says, what is it 
that gets you promoted from the local mayor, who's  
a Democrat or Republican, to move up through the 
party? And he eventually, you know, spoiler alert,  
he points out that it's fundraising, that what 
you've proven to be good at throughout your rise  
in the party power structure is you're good at 
bringing people together who will then give money,  
who will then help the party, who will... You 
know, it all makes sense when it's explained  
that way, but the bottom line is these people 
that get up to the top positions of power,  
Donald Trump accepted because he's not part of 
that system, but these are people who didn't  
demonstrate fantastic leadership skills. They 
didn't demonstrate the ability to work across  
the aisle. They didn't demonstrate the ability to 
come up with really unique and groundbreaking and  
interesting legislation. They were fundraisers. 
And so I feel like when you look at the leadership  
now and you say, well, why aren't they pushing 
harder against the executive branch, for example?  
Most of them, and I say most of them because 
it's hundreds of people, right? There's a whole  
bunch of different... But most of them aren't 
those kind of people. They weren't picked for  
those reasons. Those are not their strong points. 
They don't really want that most of them. I mean,  
they may want to get done what they want to get 
done, but that's not... These aren't ideologues,  
most of them. And you can see it because they 
often give up the opportunities to really push  
what they say they believe in for other things. 
And this is why, for example, if these people  
really cared about the institution of Congress, 
or they cared about the guardrails, or they cared  
about the Constitution, then you would never see 
the President able to go to war without Congress  
screaming and yelling. The fact that they don't 
is a sign that they don't want to, right? And  
they don't want to because they've worked out 
that there's no advantage for them. If I make  
the President get my declaration of war, if I'm a 
Congressman or a Senator, how does that help me?  
It helps the institution, helps the country, does 
what it's supposed to do, but me personally, that  
just gets me in potential trouble. Right, you're 
on the hook for the decision. Yeah, the war goes  
sideways, I'm in on it, right? On the other 
hand, I can do something like just say,  
I'll give an authorization to this and that. 
And then if it goes sideways, I can claim, well,  
that's not what I signed up for. If it's good, I 
can say I was in the whole way. In other words,  
the Founders believed that the various ambitions 
of all the people, men mostly in their day,  
right, in these different branches of government 
would counterbalance one another. My pride would  
counterbalance your pride, my sense of, you know, 
and it does work that way sometimes for a while,  
but somewhere down the road, people figured out 
that I can have all of the perks that matter to  
me in this job without any of the things that 
are a pain in the rear for me in this job.  
And when that happens, I think you start getting 
different people. I can remember several different  
eras in legislative history where you would see a 
great leaving of competent, experienced people who  
just said, I can't operate in this environment 
anymore, or Congress has become too divided,  
or fundraising's too much a part of my job. And 
I remember several eras where you would see it  
just as sort of an influx of people just leaving 
because this isn't what they signed up for. Well,  
then my question is, is it those people signed 
up for the reasons we want them to sign up for  
and left because they can't do that anymore? 
What are the people who take their place doing,  
right? And over a period of time, then, do you 
end up replacing people who at least mentally  
are trying to do what we think they're supposed 
to do in that job with people who don't care,  
who aren't leaving because it doesn't bother them 
as much as it bothered their predecessor? Well,  
what do you end up with? There's a great line 
from the movie, The Untouchables, the remake with  
Sean Connery and Kevin Costner and stuff, and 
they're trying to deal with a corruption issue  
in Chicago in a courtroom because the Al Capone 
types had bought the jury. And the real famous  
moment in the movie is when, because the jury's 
been bought, they can't get Capone and whatever,  
and they come in and they bring in all the jury 
replacement members that aren't corrupt, and then  
that changes everything, right? It's essentially 
like replacing your corrupt government with a  
non-corrupt government overnight. And I remember 
thinking, that's kind of what we need. I mean,  
there's an old line William F. Buckley said, we 
do better if you just simply went down the phone  
book and randomly picked a name and made that 
person, your Senator or Congress person. Well,  
that might have been hyperbole once upon 
a time, and it still may be, I don't know,  
but eventually, if things go the way they're 
going now, you're going to look and you go,  
Joe Smith from, you know, Wisconsin might be a 
better choice than some of these people. That  
we've got right now. And at that point, when 
random is better than the selection process  
we have now, I'd say that that's an interesting 
point we've come to in our history too. Sure. No,  
I think that makes a lot of sense. I want 
to retreat back to something you said,  
right at the beginning of your response about kind 
of both sides. It seems to me that when someone  
is alleging both sides, they probably ought to be 
trying to make some determination as to whether or  
not you're offering some useful context for trying 
to better understand the circumstance, or whether  
you're trying to kind of obfuscate the situation 
and help someone escape culpability by saying,  
but what about what they're doing? And they do 
that online all the time, by the way. Of course. I  
think we see that we see that latter thing all the 
time. I think we really don't see quite enough of  
people trying to excavate some additional context 
related to something else or find this trend line  
that may run through both parties because that's 
a heck of a lot less satisfying for someone who is  
in fact a partisan. I don't want to believe that 
I am somehow even partly responsible for the way  
that things are right now. And I think that the 
point that you made about Congress is exceedingly  
important. I mean, the President has enjoyed, and 
we've seen this a few times recently, actually,  
having, you know, pretty much control of Congress 
and the White House and a fairly compliant  
Supreme Court in the sense that it's conservative 
and still decides to try to go it alone in a bunch  
of instances because one, it's easier, but 
two, it does kind of offer some cover for  
Congress persons who may not be excited about 
all of this. It's been very interesting to see  
Republicans become less remarket oriented, more 
populist and more enthusiastic about things like  
tariffs. And I say enthusiastic. The enthusiasm 
seems to come from the White House. Congress for  
the most part is just kind of mum on the issue for 
the most part. And seems to comply with his desire  
without raising too much of a fuss. And it feels 
like a lot of our politics kind of functions in  
that way. Certainly, the most recent conflict 
in Iran seems to function in that way as well,  
where there might be some concern expressed 
about it, but there isn't really an interest  
in Congress flexing its muscles, asserting its 
authority, its proper authority in that instance,  
and trying to direct the course of things. I 
don't know if you had an additional response  
on that or you kind of were cool moving along to 
a different topic, but I would love your feedback.  
What the president is doing now is he's not 
breaking down walls that didn't exist. He's  
breaking down walls. We pretended existed, but 
didn't. And this is what we were screaming about  
for years on the Common Sense show is that if you 
don't use these powers, for example, Congress's  
authority to declare war, at what point do they go 
away? There are actually some legal theories out  
there about the US Constitution that would suggest 
that if a power is not used long enough, and if  
you're comfortable and you do it a certain way 
for decades, it's almost a little like how some  
states assume if you're living with somebody else, 
if you're living with somebody for seven years,  
it's community property, right? If you don't 
declare war for 40 or 50 years, it's kind of like,  
backed into the Constitution in an unwritten way. 
But everybody sort of, like I remember seeing it  
during the second Bush administration, where they 
went to Congress for an authorization for the war  
in Iraq, but made, it was almost like their little 
signing statement out that they used to do too,  
where they would say, "We're coming to you for 
this authorization, but we are saying explicitly  
that we don't think we have to come to you for 
this authorization." In other words, we're not  
saying that we require this, but we're going 
to be... And Congress was cool with that, too.  
In other words, we're all cool with pretending we 
still need to do this. But that's a fig leaf. Now,  
when the president currently says, "I'm not even 
going to play that fake game," and everybody's in  
an uproar, what we're doing here is defending 
the fig leaf of protocol. And I was having a  
conversation with the buddy asking whether or 
not there's a refreshingness to simply throwing  
it out and saying it was never there to begin 
with. That was not really a guardrail. We were  
making ourselves feel better at the end of the 
day, pretending it was a guardrail, better to  
know it's not and deal with it, versus, "Hey, 
even the fig leaf of protocol acknowledges that  
there was a protocol and that that's better than 
no fig leaf of protocol at all." I don't know the  
answer to that question, but I think that that's 
what this president has done. He's just said,  
"None of this ever mattered in the last 20, 30, 40 
years anyway. I'm not going to pretend it matters.  
Screw you, Congress." And Congress has kind of 
gone, "You can't do that." And here's the problem,  
and this is where you'll see it on the Internet, 
too. I get so upset with that both sides-arism  
approach on the Internet because someone will say, 
"Well, you didn't say something when Barack Obama  
killed Anwar Al-Al-Liki with a drone." Which, by 
the way, I did say something when that happened,  
but the point is that if you don't see how that 
at least gives the other side an argument, which  
is what they're using now, right? Where were you? 
Nobody ever sits on the Internet and says, "Well,  
you know what sure Obama did that, too, but let's 
talk about the policy." That never happens. Again,  
when we were talking earlier about how you 
never can have a good discussion anymore  
because we just get hung up over truth 
and fact and sources, this is this way,  
too. We never talk about whether it was good to 
drone an American citizen like that. We just say,  
"Well, Obama did it, too. So how could you have a 
leg to stand on?" Okay, can we have the discussion  
about whether any of them should have done it? And 
that's the problem I have with the partisan lines  
here, is that you can't have that cross-party 
discussion. And you mentioned something earlier  
that made me think about the word, "I like to use 
a lot in this situation." It's empathy. Try to put  
yourself in the other guy's shoes. And what I say 
is, if you are cutting your own person some slack,  
that you would not cut this person from the other 
side, then you're a political hypocrite. And that  
is what all of these people online, by the way, 
when they say, "Where were you when someone so was  
doing it?" That's what they're implying, right? 
You're a political hypocrite. The question is,  
is how do we break out? There's an old 
line, I don't know if Gandhi really said it,  
but it said it in the movie, right, where he said, 
"I know a way out of hell." What is the way out  
of hell in this problem that we have for us, this 
political hypocrisy, this inability to say, "Hey,  
let's not criticize Trump for doing this because 
Obama did it, too, and I didn't yell when he did  
it." But that's why I get to both sides of 
your tag when I point out that, "Listen,  
we got here, and I can say it up for it. I think 
the Republicans are worse than the Democrats over  
the last 30 or 40 years." But that doesn't change 
anything. If I elected Democrats the whole time,  
I don't think we're that far from where we are 
now anyway, right? Once we have this fig leaf  
of protocol problem, unless you mentioned the 
two forks in the road, right, getting better,  
getting worse, unless you're going to have 
somebody that says, "elect me and I'm going to put  
the guardrails back up, I don't know how we fix 
that, and no one's going to want the guardrails  
back up when there's guys in power because it's 
counterintuitive. If you say, "elect me and I'm  
going to give up some presidential power back to 
Congress," which may be run by the opposite party,  
by the way, "Who's going to elect me?" So that's 
where we get down this road, "Can we make things  
better or aren't things going to get worse? We're 
required to do some pretty counterintuitive things  
as an electorate to make things better. Are we 
capable of doing that?" I don't know. Mark Cuban  
said two days ago something about he's had it with 
both parties. Yay! What can we do about that? And  
I don't want to pretend that multi-party systems 
are an answer to the question. I think the reasons  
Netanyahu and Israel are so extreme right now 
is because he's got minor parties dragging him  
into these. So there's no panacea when it comes to 
multiple parties, but our duopoly in this country  
right now is messing with the part that I was 
always told was part of the genius of America  
by my stepdad. He said, "What makes us geniuses, 
we get better through competition. We've got  
Hertz and Avis here, and there's no incentive 
for anyone to be any better than 1% better  
than the next guy." And I think that maybe helps 
explain our political decline as a system. Yeah,  
so much there. I mean, one thought that I had that 
was triggered by something you said a moment ago  
is just about the sense of existential peril, like 
persistent existential peril that our politics has  
been. It feels like just kind of overwhelmed 
by both sides of our political divide here are  
insisting routinely that if they win, that's kind 
of it for us. And I can appreciate why someone  
might make those arguments. I can give some 
credibility to both sides. Here I am. Give some  
credibility to both sides and say, "Okay, maybe 
you're right. Maybe you're right." But it also  
feels like if we're going to have a conversation 
or we're going to think about politics through  
that empathy lens that you mentioned a moment ago, 
or we really try to put ourselves and the other  
person's shoes in a meaningful way, it's much 
harder to do that when we imagine that what we're  
facing is kind of an existential crisis, a set 
of policy proposals that will forever change the  
country in a way that we simply can't come back 
from. It may be the case that it's appropriate to  
talk in that sort of way. It often, however, to me 
feels like we are engaging in a sort of hyperbole,  
and that it's probably better to embrace this Adam 
Smith dictum that there is much ruin in a nation.  
And however bad we might imagine things to be, the 
reality is that the country's pretty resilient. We  
tend to come out on the other side of these 
things. There's an ability to recalibrate,  
and we at least embrace that sort of perspective. 
It feels like maybe there's an opportunity to have  
a more constructive sort of conversation about our 
politics and about where things stand and how we  
might make navigate our way through things. 
Because as you mentioned, I don't know that  
multiplying the number of parties is necessarily 
going to fix this, and I don't have an expectation  
that they will kind of correct themselves on 
their own. But if the electorate is much more  
engaged than these conversations and can do it in 
a way that is perhaps a little less, a little more  
dispassionate is perhaps the right way to say that 
there might be an opportunity for more fruitful  
political engagement. Oh, God, there's like five 
things I want to say about this. I'm never going  
to remember all of them because they're all on 
five different paths. The first thing is, and  
remind me about this, but we're not incentivized 
to keep the level of heat in our political culture  
down. The incentivization all runs the other 
direction. Sure. But let me, I want to play off  
something I just said because I'm going to talk 
about political empathy, and I can hear a friend  
of mine saying, you're asking me to empathize 
with people who don't think I should even be  
allowed to exist. And I wanted to address that 
for a minute because that's a very logical point.  
So take for example something that I got wrong, 
and I talked about this quite a bit because I saw  
things like the racism of my youth, and I grew 
up during the busing era and all in the family,  
all that stuff where society is trying to iron 
out a whole bunch of long-term problems. It's been  
dealing with it, and iron it out publicly, right? 
And I, like many of my generation, thought that  
we were looking at a generational problem, that 
these were people from another time period that  
were slowly aging out, and that as they aged out, 
we would have a different reality when it came to  
things like race and all those kinds of things. 
And of course, obviously, completely wrong on  
all of those fronts, but I'm interested in why I 
was completely wrong on all those fronts. And one  
of the things I think deserves a tie in here is 
if you look at the people who think that race is  
really important on a white person level, a lot of 
those people like the Trump administration. Well,  
why are they voting for that? And why are, as the 
racism risen up, I told a story to you when we  
talked earlier about an interview I did with 
a Croatian during the Yugoslavian Civil War,  
and I had known the history of the region and 
how there's these ancient hatreds between some  
of the people who are in the world. And I brought 
it up to the guy and he just stopped me dead. And  
he said, "All of that was going in the other 
direction. All of that was trending. We were  
having movies made about Serbian girls falling in 
love with Croatian boys. You know, it was going  
their version of the all in the family Archie 
Bunker route, right?" He said, "But then the  
economy turned." He said, "And demagogues found 
that they could get power by playing with the  
old hatreds, blame your economic situation on the 
ancient people we've never liked." And he said it  
was like pouring gasoline on a bunch of glowing 
coals that you thought were burned out already.  
And it just flared right up because it's an 
ancient tool that demagogues can use. I think you  
can play in the ancient hatreds. But the ancient 
hatreds come up because other reasons arise,  
economic in the former Yugoslavian he was 
suggesting. Well, you could make a kind of a  
tie in here that the party that's benefiting from, 
let's call them, disaffected, disenfranchised  
whites in the American Rust Belt, voting for the 
Trump administration. What if we could have helped  
those people four or five administrations ago in 
the Rust Belt, not end up in the Rust Belt? Are  
those people in a different place that you had 
mentioned earlier about the importance of each  
of these elections and how we've heard now for a 
generation? This is the most important election in  
our lifetime. What if that's always been true? 
What if that's been true for 40 or 50 years,  
right? In other words, when we were screaming and 
yelling and listening to the dead Kennedy's scream  
about the Reagan administration, I thought the 
Reagan administration was particularly nasty. Now,  
in the context of things, it looks positively 
glorious compared to where we are now, but that's  
the continuum, right? But had something changed 
early on? Have we gone in a different direction  
in 1964? Oh, that would have been gold water. 
But you know what I'm saying? In other words,  
from before I was even born, we could have been 
on a different path now that would have set us on  
something different, but once you don't solve 
problems and once people become more and more  
desperate, that's when extremism arises, right? 
So if you solve the problem of what are people  
going to do for meaningful work, you know, in the 
parts of the country that are feeling, you know,  
watching their towns disappear and their children 
leave, and if you don't solve that problem,  
it's going to find a way to make you feel its 
pain. We did a show once called "The Revenge of  
the Gangrenous Finger" on common sense. And the 
entire part was how you could decide this finger  
doesn't matter at all, just a little finger who 
the hell cares about this. But if it gets gangrene  
because you ignored it, it'll poison all of you. 
And that's how I feel about the body politic, too,  
is you can only go so far in destroying people's 
lives, or if you're not actively destroying them,  
they're not doing what you should be doing to 
maintain them, they will make you feel their  
pain. And there's an argument to be made 
that that's what we're going through now.  
And if we don't solve the problem this time 
around, it will be ever more amplified the next  
time we come around. You know, there's somebody 
who described history as not a circle, but like,  
almost like a mobius strip, where you do come 
around to the same point, but it's on a different  
level, right? And I feel like we've had to deal 
with this, what are Americans going to do to  
make a living and raise their family and have a 
higher standard of living than their elders had,  
which was always, you know, our benchmark. I feel 
like we've been having this discussion since at  
least the 1980s, maybe the 1970s. How long can you 
not solve that problem before it's going to turn a  
system that should be functioning like a spinning 
top and perfectly equilibrium? At what point does  
that top become unbalanced? And once it does, 
how do you restore its equilibrium? And that gets  
us back to what we were talking about earlier. I 
don't know what to say in a common sense show now,  
because the whole show was about how the top was 
going to get out of balance. I don't know how to  
get it back in balance. That's so interesting. 
And now I'm in the position you were in just a  
moment ago. There's so much there that I'd like 
to respond to. I love these conversations, though,  
because you had them enough. We end up getting 
stuck on, well, where did you hear that? And  
who did you get in your source? This is much more 
fruitful, isn't it? I think so. You mentioned just  
in terms of race and identity and the really, 
I suppose I could say increasing salience of  
race as an issue in American politics. Again. 
Yeah, it's so odd. And the Mobius strip analogy  
is phenomenal because I think that actually 
is a really great representation for what,  
at least I've seen happen here where in the 
1960s and 70s, when you talk about race,  
there's a very particular sensibility about kind 
of institutionalized, formerly institutionalized  
races. Jim Crow, everything that came with 
the law. Which has to be addressed. Yeah.  
And it kind of made sense. But as someone born 
in the 80s, lived through the 80s and the 90s,  
my sensibility about race and identity was forged 
in that particular context. And in that context,  
what was clear to me was probably embodied in 
that Michael Jackson song. It doesn't matter  
if you're black or white. There was a sense 
that we were moving away from a particular  
sort of sensibility. You were just as wrong as 
I was. That's just it. I was. I was. And what  
actually seemed to happen from my standpoint was 
this issue became increasingly salient in these  
ways around particular narratives, whether or 
not the narratives were completely completely  
consistent with available facts and data. So, you 
know, police involved shootings became a massive  
issue around the country. And it's something 
that I've worked on directly and have covered and  
even even done a bit of activism with respect to. 
And it's something that's been a concern for me,  
but I've always been concerned that that issue was 
kind of miscast as a racial justice issue. Because  
the data did not bear out the kind of assertions 
that were being made about the disproportionate  
risk faced by particular communities. It seemed 
to me that the appropriate access upon which to  
have conversations about that was, okay, so 
what if, in fact, too many people are being  
killed by law enforcement and they're unarmed 
in certain circumstances, how can we have better  
transparency, more accountability, better training 
to ensure that not too many people are being  
killed by police in circumstances like that. To 
take the kind of hierarchy of concern and to place  
at the very top of it, the racial designations of 
the persons involved in those shootings, it seemed  
to me was always a huge mistake because it would 
presuppose a certain set of things that we ought  
to be taken into consideration with respect to the 
solutions that might be workable in those contexts  
and also make us think about the problem just in 
too narrow or way. At a time when I was seeing  
plenty of examples of persons of all backgrounds 
kind of facing those kinds of circumstances. And  
I think that that is pretty indicative of a lot of 
what's happened with conversations around race and  
identity and kind of imagined harms and peril. 
And it seems like a lot of the resistance early  
on to some of the things that we saw say in 2020 
with Black Lives Matter was less people who were  
saying, well, hey, what about white people 
and more people who are saying, I'm sorry,  
why are we talking about race? Don't we 
have the same concerns? The kind of all  
Lives Matter response to Black Lives Matter was 
never about, and at least so far as I could tell,  
asserting that your concerns don't matter, it's 
that all of us ought to matter. It was about being  
broadly inclusive. And it was interpreted 
as something that was perhaps aggressively  
bigoted. And I think that that almost inspired a 
kind of backlash. I think it gave strength. No,  
you've absolutely hit the nail on the head. And 
it's so human. It's that all you have to do is go  
too far in one direction. And there's a backlash. 
I think we operate on the Newtonian laws here,  
right? For every action, there's an equal and 
opposite reaction. And as soon as you go too far  
in one direction, there's going to be a reaction. 
I'll tell you this is a personal story. But I  
think this dovetails into something we were saying 
earlier when we talked about the role that the  
increasing amount of digitalization, you know, we 
talked about the Internet, but there's an angle to  
this that we don't think about. Which is the fact 
we have a camera with us at all times now. So I'll  
tell you a story. I was on the assignment desk 
at KABC in Los Angeles and Eyewitness News. And I  
used to work the late shift a lot of the time. 
And the late shift, as soon as our last crews  
were in for the day, you start getting stringers 
who would bring you the footage. And the stringer  
folks is somebody who they're like a freelancer. 
And they would go out with a police scanner in  
their car and they'd hear about something like a 
traffic accident. And they go and they shoot their  
own video. And then they go to the TV stations and 
try to market the video. So I'm on the assignment  
desk and some guy calls up and says, "I've got 
video of somebody being badly beaten by the LAPD.  
Do you want to buy it?" So I had to call the boss 
and the whole thing because there's different  
rules about if you wanted exclusive or if you 
just want to be able to use a different prices,  
we ended up passing on it. And it ended up 
going to KTLA channel five. It was the Rodney  
King beating video. Which of course we turned down 
at KABC. And then had to put KTLA and the little  
chiron in the bottom right-hand corner every 
time we showed it. But the bottom line was the  
reason that was such an important video to so many 
people in Los Angeles was, I used to take calls at  
the assignment desk all the time for people who 
lived in say Compton, right? And they call up  
and they'd say, "My son just got beaten up by the 
police." And I'd say, "Okay." And we'd start the  
conversation about what do you want us to do about 
it. And they'd say, "Well, we have photos." And  
they'd say, "Well, what are the photos of? Well, 
we've got a photo of his black eye." And I'd say,  
"Well, I don't know the circumstances that that 
black eye happened." And I said, "If you had  
video, if you had something that would show the 
circumstances, then maybe we could do something."  
And of course, nobody had a video camera with 
them when they needed it. So never... So when  
the Rodney King beating happened, it was seen as 
so important because this was representative of  
something that we had been told happened a lot. 
But that we couldn't cover, we couldn't tell the  
rest of the population how often this happened 
because we didn't have enough context, right?  
So that was why Rodney King was so much more 
important than anyone else is because, "Okay,  
even though you don't see what happened five 
minutes, it was so much more context." And it was  
enough context that you could look at it and say, 
"I'm not really sure I care what this guy did."  
Right? It doesn't matter what he did. He didn't 
deserve this. And so to me, that's a perfect  
example of what you're talking about too, which 
is you can have something like that and go, "Well,  
holy cow, something like that should never happen 
in a society like ours." And then what ends up  
happening though is then when we turn it into the 
white and black thing, then people on the other  
side say, "Well, I never heard a black person in 
my life and I'm a white person. Why?" In other  
words, you get that Newtonian reaction again. 
And what's so sad about that is it stops us from  
noticing something that is unabashedly happening, 
which is Rodney King is getting the hell beaten  
out of him in a way that unless he shot a police 
officer, he shouldn't be having happened to him,  
right? And so that's the larger conversation, 
which should have said that if Rodney King were  
white, what happens then? In other words, I think 
that this whole, you know, there was a scene, and  
I remember seeing it on television and thinking, 
"This is going to work against this cause so  
badly." But it was one of the Black Lives Matter 
protests, and it was some white young people sort  
of kneeling or asking for forgiveness or something 
from some black students at the protest. And I  
just remember thinking, "This is not going to help 
anybody. This is going to be on Fox News tonight.  
This is going to prompt the counter, really." In 
other words, there's that empathy thing we talked  
about earlier at Play Here Too to understand, and 
you know, I had this problem, I'm jumping around,  
I apologize, but I had this problem when I was 
a protester in my protesting days. There were  
always two groups of protesters, the ones who were 
desperate about being effective, and the ones who  
were more concerned, and this has come from me, 
and I'm not going to be a protest. I'm not going  
to be a protest, but I'm going to be a protest, 
and this is coming from one of the effectiveness  
crowds, so I may be biased, but we used to think 
that we're performative people. They wanted to be  
seen in the right place, doing the right, but 
part of that was the way that I used to argue,  
"Let's cut our hair, let's dress in suits, let's 
go down there, and, you know, oh, we're not going  
to, that's not who we are." Yes, but what if 
it's what we need to be to be effective? Right,  
and so I felt the same way about when I saw that 
protest with the white kids kneeling and asking  
for forgiveness. Okay, maybe you have a reason 
for doing that, maybe that serves to purpose,  
but I guarantee you that's going to work against 
whatever you're trying to do here, and yet that's,  
if I had said that as a protester, there 
would have been pushback. In other words,  
some people thought, "So this is what I mean 
about that Newtonian thing and having empathy."  
If we could somehow merge those, a combination 
of having the empathy and realizing that you have  
the empathy so that you can see the Newtonian 
thing happening, then maybe we stand a chance  
to nip the next Newtonian counter-reaction in the 
bud, but you know what's going to happen, and you  
don't have to be a genius to figure this out. 
But I mean, what's going to happen, let's just  
say the Trump administration goes by the wayside 
and we have the post-Trump era. What are we thinks  
going to happen in the post-Trump era? Don't you 
think there's going to be prosecutions? Don't you  
think there's going to be investigations? Don't 
you think that like the Nixon administration,  
there's going to be people going to jail? Listen, 
first of all, I should say that that has to  
happen. This is why we're in a conundrum. If you 
don't do that, then you don't punish people who  
violate the Constitution. But when you do do it, 
how are the people who support the president now  
going to view that? They're going to view that 
as lawfare. They're going to view that as the  
pendulum swing. They're going to view that that 
the lesson they learn is the next time that they  
get power, they've got to be even more nefarious. 
- Aggressive. - Yes. And this, by the way,  
ladies and gentlemen, for those of you who already 
know, I apologize, but this is the Roman Republic  
tit-for-tat retribution cycle that led to the 
death spiral there. Over several generations,  
the Marius and Sulla things that you see playing 
out at the end of the empire, that it leads to  
Caesar that gets more murderous every time power 
then goes to the other side. That's where we are.  
So being able to look ahead and say, can we 
somehow put a monkey wrench in this dynamic we're  
living in the middle of, play as right into the 
point you brought up earlier about the two roads  
we can go down. One road is we repair and we get 
better and we have a second American Renaissance.  
The other road is we're Marius and sulling this 
thing down to the Caesar day. And then the,  
I mean, you know, so I feel like that's where we 
are. I don't know which part of the Roman cycle  
we're in, but it's the Mobius strip thing 
again. It's not exactly like ancient Rome,  
but it's enough like ancient Rome so we should 
recognize it. - Yeah. I mean, that's just so,  
it's so consistent with what I've been seeing in 
the news cycle just this week. In Virginia, you  
just had the redistricting. - Another thing that's 
a true party, Jewo-oppole thing. Yeah. - Both  
parties absolutely doing it, but there's a kind of 
a vigorousness with which the democratic response  
is taking place now that is happening at the same 
time. - It's karma baby, it's karma. - A lot more,  
a lot more. I just saw a commentary piece, 
I think, in the bulwark that was, you know,  
stridently in favor of court packing, for example. 
And from their standpoint, the description,  
and I think this is almost verbatim, you know, 
it's time to take the gloves off. We've got to do  
whatever it takes. Anything that's appropriate, 
anything is appropriate in service of ensuring  
that tyranny doesn't win. We have to do everything 
possible to seize control and to bend the rules in  
our favor so that they don't do it. There's just 
probably a way that people respond to that from  
the other side, and it's with a similar sort of 
reckless abandon, insisting that they need to bend  
the rules in their favor. And yeah, that feels 
unsustainable, and that might be the most kind of  
dispiriting thing to come out of this conversation 
so far. - On partisan crazies, what we've  
done. - Yeah. - And that would be the only thing 
that would be the advantage for me of multiple  
parties, is it would be harder to fall into one 
of these two camps. You mentioned earlier about a  
rise in the number of people who called themselves 
political independence, and I do believe that  
this is the highest number of political 
independence we've ever had in this country.  
At least registered. But we have no power. I 
mean, there is no political independent party,  
and we're not united on anything. I mean, that's 
the other problem is that political independence  
is like what punk rock used to be in 1979. There's 
no special section in the record store. It's  
just everything else, right? So in other words, 
whereas Democrats may argue amongst themselves,  
there's enough agreement so that they're in the 
same party, same for Republicans. Independence  
span the spectrum from libertarians to greens 
to, I mean, so there is no, we're inherently,  
we're inherently divided from the get-go. So we 
decide elections now, which I find fascinating,  
but we have no candidates. Do you see how crazy 
that is? So what does a Trump or whoever's going  
to run for the Democratic, what do they do? Do 
they appeal to their base, which they have to do,  
right? What did Nixon say? You run to the right 
for the primaries, and then you run back to the  
center for the generals. The Democrats run left 
for the primaries, then run to the center. But  
why are they running to the center at all? Well, 
they're running to the center to get people like  
me, right? But as we talked about earlier, the 
radicalness of the times should reflect the level  
of the problems. I always use a termite example. 
If you have somebody come and inspect your house  
and say you have termites, but you just got 
them. You have a lot of different things. It  
can cost you a few bucks. You can freeze them. So 
if you catch it early, the solutions are minor.  
If however, you find out you've had them for 40 
years and they've screwed up the structure of  
your house, well, then if you want to solve your 
termite problem, the solution has to be radical,  
right? It's not a small solution, or you'll 
still have termites. By kicking the can down the  
road for generations like we have, whether we're 
talking about race or economics or constitutional  
guardrails or any of the things that came up in 
our discussion today, you're ignoring the termite  
problem. So the solution that fixes the termite 
problem is going to have to be more and more  
structural as we go down the road. If we wanted 
to solve this problem back in the post-Nixon era,  
it would have been an easier solve. And so I 
think where you get to where we are now is where  
you get to the brittle stage, where solving the 
problem could be so radical that it could break  
and destroy the system we're trying to solve. And 
I think you see that with some of the things the  
Heritage Foundation suggests we do. And then all 
of that stuff is turn us back to like the 1940s  
or 1950s, well, you're going to break the system 
if you do that for all sorts of reasons, including  
the fact that you can't go back to everything the 
way it was. I mean, you're going to go back to  
segregation and separate but equal, or just leave 
that out and go back to the other things you liked  
about the 40s and fit. You see what I'm saying is 
that that idea to return to a glorious past that  
never existed in the first place, which the Romans 
also believed in, sets you up for a different kind  
of failure than those of us who are trying to fix 
a system but can't decide what that even means.  
So your idea about there being two roads ahead is 
fascinating because I feel like we're staring at  
both of them, at the fork, unable to figure out 
what the hell we do. And I think that's where  
we see the dearth in leadership here because we 
don't have people running for office promising a  
solution. Right? And I think that's quite true. 
They're promising to keep you from the other guy  
to do something about that. Or to simply undo 
the last five years or, I mean, when you've  
got a multi-decade problem, and this is at least 
give the Heritage Foundation credit for one thing,  
at least the solutions that they're putting 
forward are commiserate with the level of the  
problem. They're as scary as heck, but they're big 
and the problem is big. So if somebody is going to  
say, "Okay, I'm going to run for the Democratic 
nomination and I think we should give a child tax  
credit for this." And I think, I mean, these are 
little tinkering, tweaking things when we have a  
system where we're drowning and we've gone down 
two times already, that's not going to fix your  
termite problem, right? And yet if you talk 
about the kind of legislative fixes for our  
termite problem, you're going to look like an 
AOC or you're going to look like, you know, in  
other words, it's the most radical people in both 
parties that are actually proposing things large  
enough for the scale of the problem we face. But 
it scares the heck out of us for obvious reasons,  
but these tweakers and tinkerers aren't going to 
solve the problem. So that's why we're stuck where  
we are. I want to turn in a slightly different 
direction here because we've talked about the  
institutions, we've talked about how to think 
about history, and there's something else that  
I think you're kind of uniquely well positioned 
to speak to, and that's the state of the polity  
broadly with respect to our attention spans, our 
interest in thinking in sophisticated way about  
complicated issues. I'm sure a little frustrated 
and vexed here. I'm sorry. I didn't interrupt you,  
Kmele. No, it's fine. But we've got the 
tic-tockification of everything. I've read  
a number of surveys that suggest that that is 
where young people are getting their news and  
YouTube shorts on X, on these other platforms 
where you're succinctly delivering your message,  
and that's the sickness. And there's an algorithm 
involved, by the way. Yeah. And this is, the  
sickness comes at the expense of something. There 
is a nuance. A couple more characters, maybe a few  
paragraphs, perhaps even something book length. 
And you really have been producing a product for  
a long time now and kind of bucks that trend, and 
that tends to still work in certain contexts. So  
I hear that we're shifting towards this more kind 
of oral tradition of sorts, but it's almost like a  
guttural oral tradition versus what I would expect 
when I think about Oratian. I think about Emerson  
giving a lecture. Chris Hitchens. I mean, Chris, 
you're hitting it. Sure. Absolutely. Yeah. And it  
feels like what we're getting though is something 
a little less robust than that. And certainly not  
the case that people seem to be interested in 
kind of these like lengthier, written prose on  
a variety of topics, you know, book sales aren't 
what they used to be. But if we are moving to  
this oral tradition, it doesn't necessarily feel 
like we're moving towards one that is actually  
going to be particularly healthy for us. It's 
kind of a fast food, the fast food equivalent  
of whatever it was Emerson was offering. And that 
doesn't seem like a great outcome for us. So I'm  
just curious about how you're thinking about the 
cultural trends around information, dissemination  
and consumption. And if you are at all optimistic 
about the appetites that people are demonstrating  
for these kind of shorter versus longer form, the 
kind of nuanced versus particularly simplistic,  
perhaps even self-serving narratives that you can 
go out and find for yourself. Well, I mean, look,  
the first thing that I thought of when you brought 
this up and I was able to see kind of where you  
wanted to go with this is I read a story today 
where young people are giving themselves digital  
breaks and trying to, you know, touch grass a 
little bit more in the old line of things. In  
other words, you know, we think about, I'm older 
than you are. I think about a world that I grew  
up in. I grew up in an analog world. And an analog 
world that was actually closer to the world of the  
Middle Ages or the ancient world than someone who 
grows up now. That's what's crazy to think about.  
But my era was the one where we went from the 
analog world to this one. There was a time period.  
Everybody my age had to say, "Holy cow, I'm going 
to have to learn to use a computer." Because when  
we grew up, that was one of the things. But that 
created a different world and it detached us from  
that old world. And so seeing the kids kind of 
thinking, well, maybe there's something really, we  
can feel the unhealthiness without knowing exactly 
because we've never had anything else. But we know  
this isn't how it's always been. This isn't what 
the human experience has always been. So we crave  
it, we want it. Maybe if we put the devices on the 
side for a month, we'll get a taste of it. That's  
that Newtonian counter reaction thing again, 
right? In other words, what you mentioned, there's  
almost a human need for some of this stuff. And 
I'm going to break it down to personality types.  
Because I think, you know, I have a buddy who's 
a computer genius, but he's really a math whiz  
is what he is. And he sees the world in numbers. 
And we'll have conversations with each other. We  
almost have to have a translation device because 
I see the world in terms of a linear development.  
This happened that, you know, mine's a historical 
context and his is math. But it's the same thing,  
right? He finds a way to organize and make sense 
of the world in his way as math and my way as  
context. But these are personality types that seek 
to even want to make sense of the world. This is  
not something everybody feels a need to do, right? 
That's for some people, that's an important thing  
for them. Other people couldn't care less. They're 
living their lives. And I got another friend who's  
a musician. That's what he cares about. This other 
stuff is all interference. It's noise to him.  
His work. But so I think the people that would 
like the long form content that you type about,  
to talk about are the kind of people who 
need that, right? They're people who crave  
context. There's people who say, you know, who the 
longer the conversation goes, the deeper it is,  
the more satisfying it is for them. Now, that's 
not normal. That's not everybody. But the reason  
I said earlier that when you said, how do these 
shows that we do evolve to be these long things?  
And I said it was an evolution that the listeners 
played a role in. They're the one, it's a famous  
story. I tell them all the time and I'm sorry, but 
I mean, I apologize. The first time we ever did a  
show over an hour long, I included an apology in 
the show. I said it is just not right to assume  
that I should take an hour of your time to talk 
about the Apaches. You didn't ask for this. And  
I got about 10 people writing the exact same 
phrase. We have pause buttons. And the minute,  
I mean, it was like a light bulb because I was 
an idiot. Of course, they have pause buttons,  
but it never occurred to me that there would be a 
bunch of people in the audience who would say, 60  
minutes, we're hoping for an hour and 20, right? 
So in other words, these were people telling me  
that they wanted more. It wasn't me creating a 
market for it. It was me discovering that there  
was one and the market told me there was one. And 
I think that's a personality type. I don't think  
that would appeal. My wife doesn't listen to my 
shows. It's not her thing, right? But somebody  
does. So I think there's a personality type that 
appreciates context that can deal with opinions  
maybe like when we're doing common sense, a lot of 
people listen to common sense don't agree with me,  
but they like that they're getting something from 
it depth wise, complexity wise that they don't get  
elsewhere. And I appreciate that. And those are 
exactly the kind of people that do what you and  
I were talking about earlier, the ones who were 
able to take themselves out of their own partisan  
views, able to have empathy, able to try to see 
somebody else's viewpoint, if only to make better  
arguments for their own side, right? That was my 
stepdad used to say, you want to sell somebody  
something, you better understand their point 
of view, right? And I feel the same way about  
politics. You want to sell somebody something, 
understand what matters to them. And I think  
that a lot of people out there who don't get 
context are craving it. It's a personality type.  
I don't have 10 bazillion listeners, but the 
ones who like what we have to offer, they're  
out there. And I think that's an interesting 
demographic to try to target, to be honest, maybe  
for other things too. I use a lot of AI tools, but 
engaging with these tools, one can very quickly,  
not just expand on particular things or try to 
answer questions. And I think answering questions  
with the LMS is perhaps less valuable than what 
I use them for, which is trying to synthesize the  
perspective that I'm entertaining to pressure test 
that point of view. And then in certain cases,  
to just kind of summarize other points of view 
in really efficient ways. And if with essentially  
the same kind of corpus of information, I 
can give you the short form, the long form,  
the kind of multi-part form of a piece, one that 
is kind of shaded to the left or the right, as you  
talked about earlier with the project that you 
were working on. I think that there's something  
pretty powerful in that. I mean, perhaps I'm just 
making a case for you to go back and try that  
thing again. Could you see something like that 
doing being a long term answer? Obviously not the  
version you're working with now, but the evolution 
of this in five, eight, 10 years, could you see  
something like this playing the role in solving 
some of the stuff we were talking about, the  
flooding zone with crap problem? Or is this likely 
to be the tool of the people who want to flood the  
zone with crap who figure out who figure out, you 
know what, we're going to now just make the large  
language models push the crap. We don't even have 
to flood the zone. We'll have an a laser beam of  
crap. Yeah. I don't know. I do think that there 
are a couple of things that make me optimistic.  
I mean, first is that the large language models, 
while they are expensive to build and operate,  
it's actually been surprising how cheap they can 
cheaply. They can be built. They'll get cheaper.  
They'll get cheaper. That's like everything else 
we've ever done. Yeah. And how cheaply they can  
be run. I mean, you can buy a Mac mini and install 
something local on your machine that doesn't even  
have kind of access to the internet. And it can 
still give you pretty robust support in any number  
of important ways. So the competitive landscape 
in that space, I think, will make it hard for  
someone to offer up a product that is just kind 
of biased in one direction or the other. And in  
recent history, whether it's open AI or Gemini 
or anthropics, Claude or Elon's Grok, all of  
those tools have kind of gotten to a place where 
they've become less partisan in rather obvious  
ways and more kind of general and curious and 
offering you on the one hand, on the other hand,  
perspectives on a number of topics that before 
there were all kinds of issues that seemed to be a  
function of people kind of pushing these tools in 
a left or right direction to try to achieve some  
specific kind of outcome. And yeah, maybe those 
tools can be a mechanism for encouraging us to  
think in more complicated and nuanced ways about 
important issues. But the real issue, I think,  
does come down to individuals. Whether or not 
we're invested enough and perhaps brave enough to  
embrace positions that are a little less certain, 
that it'd be more intellectual humility on our  
parts and for us to be more invested in, more 
invested in trying not to be wrong about things  
as opposed to trying to be right. You've tweaked 
my devil's advocate though now. Now all I think  
of is, "Palantir plus AI plus nuclear weapons 
plus the fourth amendment and we're screwed."  
Have you read the book, "If Anybody Builds It, 
Everybody Does?" Yeah, I haven't read it, but I  
am exceedingly familiar with the arguments there. 
It's one of those things, look, all tech works  
this way, right? When you're a nuclear weapon, I 
mean anything when you look at the big tech and  
just go, "Wow, there's an existential potential 
harm here." But as my wife and I'll talk about it,  
it could cure cancer. Yes, but it could create 
the authoritarian police state you're worried  
about. I mean, we live in interesting times, don't 
we, Kale? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, I do think the  
most pessimistic view on AI is one that it seems, 
to the extent it's true, it's just true and here  
we are. It's over and we should enjoy the next 
couple of years and there we go. Judgment day is  
coming. But I do think that I'm much more inclined 
towards the more optimistic vision of things,  
which is that we see some kind of important 
incremental changes over time that we get much  
better at doing the things that we already did as 
opposed to kind of creating a job's apocalypse and  
that the real meaningful competition that we're 
seeing amongst the people who are building these  
tools and the diversity of the tools, they're 
specialized in specific industries in many  
instances. I can kind of customize them to my 
liking. Might be good to support my own means.  
I just support my own means. I'm a little too. 
Yeah, I think that there's a lot of value in that.  
And I think ultimately, the challenge here is the 
open AI's and the anthropics and even palantiers  
of the world who are these big incumbents who are 
spending a lot of money to kind of get out ahead  
of these tools. As you mentioned, you're going 
to get cheaper. They're going to get better.  
To the extent there are huge challenges on the 
horizon, a lot of those challenges are going to  
be have these major companies are going to have 
to face them down first. And it's not going to  
be easy or cheap. And a lot of them could kind 
of crash on the rocks in the process. And the  
beneficiaries of all of that might be all of us. 
And the second generation of companies that come  
after them and can kind of build on the wreckage 
of those old firms and acquire some of their  
pieces and utilize the data centers that they all 
built. And the extra energy capacity that we're  
going to need to build if we're actually going to 
have these tools in the future. So I'm optimistic,  
but that's mostly because the pessimistic view 
of things is so pessimistic. It's almost like the  
heat death of the universe. It's almost not worth 
worrying about. No, it's been different. Well,  
I mean, in the '50s, go look at all the literature 
when everybody thought they weren't going to wake  
up the next morning because of nuclear weapons 
and stuff. I mean, for me, I just look at AI  
completely differently. And that's just the 
military history, Guy Ami. But it's a weapon  
system. And the reason you have to think about a 
weapon system is that too many people think about  
it like a consumer product. And a consumer product 
is going to follow a completely different line  
of development than something that is a military 
product. Because the military product is going to  
blow past all sorts of restrictions we might be 
able to make on consumer products. So you might  
say something like, oh, well, we don't want to do 
this with AI. That would not be a good move. Yeah,  
but if somebody else will just say China can be 
our bad boy du jour in this conversation. But  
if the Chinese are working on it in the military 
sense, it acquires the same dynamic that nuclear  
weapons, in other words, we can't fall behind 
because it's an existential threat, as opposed to,  
oh, yeah, it might affect our ability to deliver 
products onto it. It creates a different dynamic.  
The survival mode is triggered. And all of 
a sudden, that opens up doors to rampant  
development. We might not otherwise think was wise 
if it wasn't so important a thing. And the only  
reason I bring that up is we've now had a couple 
of generations to live with nuclear weapons,  
which follows a similar dynamic. And I feel like 
people, it's normal in an American society where  
everything is sort of, we look at the capitalistic 
side of this, how we can make money off of it.  
But when you put it in a more military sort 
of context, I think that's when you're going  
to see how AI is going to function in terms 
of our ability to control it, our ability to  
let it go beyond a line where we would let it 
go. If this was just a consumer question, I think  
that's probably going to be a more accurate way 
to watch the development of AI is to think about  
it with like the next nuclear bomb type thing. 
And I bet it follows that path. You know, we used  
to call nuclear weapons and nuclear power a dual 
use technology, right? Because you can use it for  
both AI is a dual use technology. But we forget 
that one of the uses is military and existential.  
Yeah. And then some of the limitations on 
your ability to utilize it are built into  
the tech as well. I mean, the nuclear fallout, 
if you're too close, you can't use it. That's  
where the problem is very terrible. When the EMC 
pulse happens and blows your AI out of the water,  
then what, right? Yeah. Yeah. And I think AI is 
somewhat similar in that at the moment, you know,  
we talk in the consumer context hallucinations, 
but that actually exists in the military context  
as well. And it's part of the reason why you can't 
have completely autonomous murder machines. Go  
watch a movie like fail safe. The whole movie 
fail safe is about sort of a computer glitch,  
right? Well, what if that computer glitch 
were done on purpose? I mean, there's a,  
well, war games, the more updated version, I guess 
a fail safe is another one. Imagine the movie war  
games from the early 80s with AI. I mean, the 
whole thing is fascinating. And I always say,  
you know, if we fascinating and terrified, it's 
the stakes that actually make it interesting,  
though, right? In other words, if it wasn't so 
damn serious, it might not be so intriguing. If I  
always say that this would be such an interesting 
period to study from 500 years from now, you know,  
we were doing a history show on it. It just 
is a whole different thing to live through,  
isn't it? Yeah, yeah, it sure is. Now, I suppose 
500 years from now, AI, Dan Carlin, AI Kmele,  
maybe continue to have this conversation. That's 
right. And whenever we want it, things. Dan,  
this has been really, really wonderful. I am so 
grateful to you for just taking some time to chat  
with me. This is not gone at all as I expected, 
which is in some respects precisely what I  
expected. I hope you get what you want out of it, 
but it was very enjoyable. Thank you so much, Dan.  
That means a tremendous amount. Dan Carlin, thank 
you, sir. Thank you for having me. Want to support  
the channel? Join the Big Think Members community 
where you get access to videos early? Add free.