Everyone Last two days, the Korean the gun gunmen and Chinese ship in the North Sea They're they're they're they've been to give a sub Filipin sco but may get so philibing chynor king and and trucus on the planeers by the ship "Chinese Koe-Tonged-Ego-to-to-the-caband' 't, and the jet-tons' "'and' "'Unfought' continue' "'hanging' people who are on-one. "'Some media' about to be' "'From media' about to look at "'Chairns in the night and the "'and'n' side-air-you-to-co-been-hocene-cue-hack-hout-let-choo-lot-lieter'-chew-ass-cuest-one-he'-he-hack-hack-he-one-h'-h'-hue'-hack—'-one But who will not think to is in a self-jerkie-being The Philippines put the video put down the world The big English and the and the main media and the all the world all the world is the way-goen. The Chinese's official The way-tow-road. First is in-manned and the Houthi-Gin-ma-Fir-Phillie-Pey-Bin's all-sand-bent. Manned-bush-sha-h-h-h-h-h-bbed. The country's fatianers said his train his own his own either and quite due and right and right and that and the landmpt and it's the not the country not the country. Chinese was a case is called the and use and to be and the without all the any serious shus made This is the world-being-chong-pong-ponged and the chippe also not the unique and in China in the India also and the people people even in the in the India and in Pakistan said to "Lakey-Sahean side, "'Inund, "'Indo' Kingdom's "'s said, "'It's not "'Bazan't "'Baheckisthan "'and did "'lis' "'Leads. "'As in India, "'of, "'Bahshton, "'one, "'F-16, "'to do get "'all few-gae, "'Moeuv. "'It's not, "'it's, "'ifft-sixth-sixth-send "'at in "'and by "'-e-lough.' Pakistan's lawfonged "Indo'AQaeda'Ombuds' "'Sahawk,' "'He can't take a newly the "'toebbikistan and India "'with, do you do with-beck, "'saint-finding' "sue'est, "'Sach, whose family's' guy's' "'seeked-all-the-cap-y-church-all-kind.' "'Monduelly-can-scibly, "'but, look, if I see-hecatcheshick, "'the two-cuit-kind-old-kind-old-kind-shipscient. "'There's the general-kind.' They just like a two two-few-eemois of brothers. They're not the same. The same change-the-chrom- but there have a common of the family-e-srand and the character chuechew. These two years, some people people were people and some people also people are and the two countries different, but the India and India and the country is the country, is the country, the country, the country, the world, and the people, and the, Their most of the people are in the state still still in 19th years even 2,000 years. Now, in the world's in the world's in the country still stills, and we're doing to keep and look there can't see the can't out is India, and China and I'm the three countries are the different types of children, and it's just in the longs to come-in--the-coup-to- The Uckiqa and in the world is in all the world is in the world, there are still two countries ming and dangle, the country, the country, one is China, one is India, this is not only India, not only only they buy it, and it, and also, and, and, and, and, and, These two countries for the warr of the war of time provide for money and and the again again this is the only one in the countries all the government as well. So we as the world members as not there This is the Chinese ship and in the United States' in the United States, the case happened the case where the government, and the country and the enemy was being cut out the way to the fact, it's true, is it, to be in-macked their un-Nexual and failure. This is a This is a trans-tang-of-in-moder This two countries A second-Cence-Chi-Thing-T One-Chi-Rew-Pong-Sin, is a short, and a great-do-pong-sion. For the way-to-weigh-o-shron, they'd bea-one-the-cuit-a-cuh-haw-hong. This not just is the government-n't-o-o-looded a community, Why would Why would this Why these two years and long were the world in the world in the challenge in the in front of the world would be able to the same different way way we're we're we're so we is the way is because In a normal country, the troops got zahed, battle the battle back-the-cate, the fleet got the war, gun-of-suit, ship-and-the-lawed and redoubt, setteal, the people, the government can't like the people, not the people, this is the same country's the situation. China and India, not a normal world, it's a different country, is a very different country, which is I often say the "Whine-Cupor's "Tong'ism' "What I'm' talk about this one' 'Ongu' world.'" It's a new country.'" That's a lot of people who are in the "Long'sit in the Lonez' Don's Inchus' Don't'C'Ot'n'n'n' '0'n'n'n''' 'o''' 'n't'n'n'' Some of the people would come backbber, "Chief is the world's the two big big big market, the world's the world's long-to-roostle the world. The truth is that. The whole world all of the South Arabos of oil, but this is not not that's not that's not really 'Saharan'Obrua world has been in the world. The world is the "What's the country is a "'This is a good, "'buttower, but the country "'but not just is a "'theirc in mind-towed "'in' "manned'aunboh, "'the more important, "'the, "ogevoh, "'is a kind of, "'is a kind of, "'is a common, "'is a common, "'are you know, "'turebawall, "'turevue, "'of, "'lend, and, And in this more-hens'en on the core-send on, China and in the India, is in their history buchan in the history and the world and the land's not the but they they're in their their their in the chow around round round round and Some said is just the foot, or one says is to go, but they're actually being able to put in, they're always going, just to go. They're always in front, like mongedlew, like, I'm going to, and then keep out, but actually, they're in their chelong in the chowelm, they're not saying they're going to, they're going to go ahead, because whether it's to the time go, or is the road, the way ahead. the system of modern-wainment-hore, is, "Cover, "Cetects, "'It's the core.'" He's in the "Denetka' "'Lewan' "'Cow'" "'Cow-Coh-Coh-Wonged "'a-Gin'a-quem-quhawin' "'a-quand-a-quand-a-chidly "'a-cuit, This is the Kinskta is the "Cholong.'" This is the country, by the control of the world's of using the old-year-old to build to make the Chinese's true, and, successfully, the world made the of the "Chong.'" This is a fact of no one for sure. But, but one's from where is is a long or is or is a long country, or is a long country? This is a person is a dad-ma's choice. You, your dad-ma, made, there some, some, some, some, is some, is to-chang-so-ho-hurt. But, but not what's what you should do you just a your dad and my and you choose the country and you and the country, or it's any of you any any any any any you were you were a that was a You've got you've got you've got your own and your your own or have done or make sure and make sure for you get to feel like this whole. This is normal but one but one whatever did it and he's in the country and and because because it's because it was a country This is a a kind of and the party and some people don't like people like such people like sure this people we're we're we're many we're the world we're the first we're our our our our people our were our times and were people people people and This this chri-nue-sha-fonged-shund in the country's in their minds in their own, this is the same-a-pient let them create a new one-she-in-kind like, since in China, then-than-the-trait- than-o-o-were should be the world-sum-sion, to be a-trait-kind, to make other countries go-bighed. To sell 5,000-year-spin, this kind of, yet, the country also and also, the more than the power, is chow-hens, and the hate-hurt, chow-hens all the people who their own the drug-eft, the of the "nue of the world's - - He put self-soucaught to be one-hound and not-e-fey-fran to say how being being re-eachan and how by the end-eck-e he put full-sac- history to get-of- language, we've been the world we've got made, and we've made, and we're now, we're now we're we're we're, we're we're, we're When this is-t-l-lis-hushed-ship of chate in one-person-same, in a great-meyields, to get-h-hung-tallonged to be a huge-to-whole-we, would send out a world-so-hung-hung-haw- this country's a world, a group in a group in history of chowl's chowl, chou, unknowed, chouhung, chowhant, wunong, chouin, wun, chry-new-sawhong, and chloe-whi-nue-sha-honged, and a They can't use a modern, right and the mind to look to look at today they're they're they're not a world not the world and you're the world, but is a world and it's a world They can't Japan, it's not a a whole-phing-franonged and it's been a different in three-four-day in different their country they're they've got the present people, they'd make a more like people, like, like, human-so, like, like, to be all right and it's trying to make them, and then not they're making them This, this history-toghut state which is today in many many people many these things why the President-Refs why we're why people being by the the party and being on the hush-e and we and why what the the army and not high war and the country and the the people's is to seek to the truth, and is to be all the other than to the army, and then, and then, and then to open to the next time, continue to end-gay-she's, truest, through years. In fact, China, many of the years, can say, "Pobo' '201sts' But, the people' "201stc'000.'" Just like 100 years ago, Gou Hulming's said that that, the head's cut downed but the head in the bian the bian's gend s'n't de-go. A lot of people, in the head in the long-the-of- t'n't not-of- land-send--scient-o- world, and back- to their think-to- their-sion- to the time-the-tt times-o- So, we'll say about China, we'll say about the "Thau, Nant-hounde, India. China is in modern-the-min' the main-kearche out, and it's difficult, and more have more mifford, because the long-year- country, he didn't get-of-s--shi-e-shing--type roe-of-kind The English people leave and left a whole complete democratic of the intent like it would like the state like the political from from the from the India over the world and it's a new is a national it's a but it's such a type power computer that it's the software and the software and all it's it's all the Windows 95 this this time the device can't be it Even can run it on the it will be on-key. India's question is the ink-gear and non-gear and very not-pepey. Its country is the people who are created, is the modern-womened and the world, but the chuteonged the world-mine human-kind not made made made make modern-o- modern-o- He the "Their-so-Lawndtube's "Indo-Nazis' This was a true-to-eatheat "'is'oed' "Indo'i-Scibiot' "'It's'Inty'i'u'an the government' "'to'"" "'To'i'o'an' 'o' 'ni' '2' '9'""' ""o''' '0'9'' 'ou''' 'o''' 'o'o'i'o'i'''''''' The same as as a great future, it's the great future, not to be able the world and and purses and it's to be able to a high-to- history-as-of- in the time, in the time, we had been we've introduced a way India-e author, V.S. Nepal. He in 2001, in November Wemingiae Neboeer's had once used in a sure in a American's life was living a question the country, prisoners of the past. He can't India in the ensue in the world, and so I'm taking over the time, it's been a certain of The Indian's reaction is not open, and to be able to continue to go-n't-nays, and is to go-to-the-cult- and traditional to find out social-weigy and self-ign-ind--to-the- these two-go- people, both can't be able to get-be- and-o-o--court-to- and-o- Churong, and shrews, and shrews, and then the way, it's the two the two government and the country when when the world, the country and then India and and then, india and the two of the nigho and non-hounde and the same who also got bianing-trunk, they don't use and without, and with the gun, with long-hack-bonged, when they're going to, they're going to, this is a true, this is a full-y-y-y-y-y-yrook-jew-gue. and it's exactly the two countries, from the government to the state, all are in in the modern world, the world not just is they're using the weapons, but is that the two countries and their government and their they're they're having to To go to India, round-pacred a big-dink-dain He by some Western-scivil-fynch, this person is Saint-Hun-Gand-Di. Gandhi, so on free-bobly, but-hocerroup-hocer, and support some Western-Gyappen human-pents to the human-pents' and the human-pents'-hepened to Especially their from their from from ancient-et-ass-ya-pient has a strong-like need because this-like science-of-officers men-sets chen-uying and in-scied-eat-pient to the world lack-saut-e mind, often end-ed-eastern end-ed-ebted and the Fibaldi-E GAN-Dee's-Boeh-h-coe, the reason is the the only can't in India to achieve the the reason not because his thinking it's the power of the not because it's because it's the their own because his people and it's the particularly to it's the world the end of His own-min and its'oan value, his country's and has been to a link-dead-date, to the German-tombed, in Europe, there are more than world, and more than people, and more than, and you know, to be the people, the people, the people, can't understand the people's, the "I'ma' world-the-the- human-like-to-, "o-o-suff-o-suit-,, and,, you know, This is what? This is it is it is, it is it is, is the English the world and the free-bob-lid. It's the world-being to do, it's-establed the India's peace, and many, many, people, and the people, and the people, completely got the American's, We can give those Chupon Gandhi, and Bienti, and the Gians'O., do a think the scinting to the same of the same time, or put down the state of the St.D.L.L. Or, if you're saying the close to say it, put it on Mao Ruechee's to make it to go to Keghili, and Kekheboh, and Kegh and Kov, and Kov, and you think he can't work a few days? , whether in Naucu, in the Sunni Giacos, or in Mao Ruchy's the gabingos and in the proxie-being of peatow-a-o-koye, Gandhi's "Heathsendee' 'Gandhi's free-baud-eephocle, "Inguze'""""""" "...is speak louder than words." "iscibly, s'ynguze, "o'"""" Gandhi's "'s his own way.' His last some of the short-shin' and his own-baudly, "Hisopold, these high-dial, the 'hipped-cha and chippen. In 1999, '29 929. '7.23, Gandhi gave Hitler "'he's all the "'spae'a. "'Inhete' "'in' 'hete' "'in' 'ht'Ley's' "'in'" "'Hehurt'''" "'in'" "Vind,''n't,''''0'n.' Dear friend, the time in the world to stop the can't say the human-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law. Gandhi, Gandhi, he called Chitlele, to stop the war, 30 days, he took the Sun-Lenting the Hube-Cinfant-Ti-Fewan. 39 days, the German-er-Gern-Borland World War. This not And yet One of the Inni-year-Sah During 'Eight In other "Ingo'd even 'Inguptu's Mn'to' In fact that it's "Iti'Raea'RIN' "NewGuel'Intyre""'Rourin'Aid'u'a'n'u'n'a'n'n'n'a'am'a'a'a'an'u'an''a'an............................... "Fonged up the weapon, because the "'What weapon to do you and "'and to save you, and to-do-you-nob-nue, "'you're not going, "'you want to put Sitterlauhrin' "'and Mr. King to you have "'the beautiful, "'their d'all on, "'and them love what, "'just-n't-na-all what. "'You-navon. "'You need to forget this "'but can't put-key "'and can't give-chin-lain-kind. If those people want to get your house you're to get the house come out and they don't let you take and they should be allowed you know and then they're all but you're to give them to them show them this is Gandy the word word word and the Chinese written Gandhi in this in the letter, he said, he did not want he won't want England to win and not want England to win just is to ask you not using aftly, but is to use non-bauding. Gandhi co-cilled English and one is one is the warringing is a power peace, will be not true democracy, but for Now, we are in using the ", "'Your' "'Your political-ya "'suan-teland is "'Foringing' "'is for 'iminut' "'I think, "'Gentzim-one "'in' in what kind of "'eathe will "'ne without a-year-old "'that-you-now-know-know-n't-all-know-belled "'your-old. "'Your-been-de-boan-de-cete-combed "'hean-the-ceneer's "'their-combed "'and—'-dean's "'-beck "'-meat-beck "'-let-the-were "'-wean'--de-all—''—' That's Ghani made to give Galli called in the word of in the in the invasion of the and it's the all right and the the same all the the the 14th May 2014 January 24 Gand Gandy and gave Sittler wrote and still in friends and again the name the word the name I can you being a friend because I'm there because I'm In the Liu Xiaobo in the court in the court in the court said, I'm not there's from here. From Gandhi to get to Chittske to the second With the with the first with the first the first is, Gandhi started piquing Hitler, chiek Zepov, Chetovac, chageneb chan b'o'an, tund, d'a, and, and, again, with a manly, is the Gans, the same thing in the form of the, and in the way, in human name, to, ask, Chitle, to stop war. He, in the day of people, he asked people, keep to setler, to stop them, and to make sure what, and say, and to make sure who, as the Gandhi's type of idea just like can't be able to make up a human so you so one such and so an country by Indus by Indian was not and the anti- anti-the anti-and- he's his right he's his worry the is his support and In the most of the The President not Gandhi sang the always the correct called but it's in the un-eastern and the military anti-and-e can't do with anti-the-trak to be a free-eastern as a personal-sion, as a kind of self-ehan and or which is is go-grue but if this this faith, it's a fun-e the confin' and the all the end of the evil and the and the evil and the fact that is the human and common and and the this the can view the result that not the men but that the Some Japanese put GANDD upon to bring up the same because because of the end the land in the end up people people and the it is that was the world and the general they're They're to not to and not god and all and self-mature and self-mant- self-manned without the human without the not yet people, and I'm any of the a natural-er-ran of the result is, government and women, free-row-sha-wharf, and over-tray-nows-crow-n-n-n-haw-n-n-trak. China-well-n-nment-hru-nn-harm. There are the world-nostic-kind-to-the-counter-the, and They were in the United, Yang Feng, Inewey, their people are people are very-chievous, and use the foreign the free-sbon-suitary and use the open to earn the market, to get the wealth, to get to get the technology, and in the world-nichu and human-the-scent-women and in- China and China and even to not even to not even Their people, their people, each other's the world and in the in the media and in the media and in the country, seem to make it, and China and India and there, These two of the modern-women and the country and the other modern-o-oing-stichu of the poor co-doughed-to-it-all-it-all into, formed a a free-seed-o-o-o-o-o-o union-mong. The U.S. also is a re-tonged-lis and chur-lis-eat country. His country, its own-nment to be a great-fewing and the, and the, and the world-the-Chi-O-D world-Chi-MITs full-ent-Mews, full-wight-the-chews, in the country, and the world, In the world, the Indo, this these are now and the non-hung, night-deer, all are by the people, are all right, and we're using this way, and there's people, and it's in in the people, to find the future, and then all the people, and it's in the end-of- anger, that's their people, that's, So, we'll ask a question. This country has a way to the world, the world has been in the chen locien on overshunds, China, China, China, and then, some Western and the West-Shanes and other people and whooooo India's up. In the history, in the chelong in, can get-chied to what you? in the In the word in There are saying, saying it beaub-ean, the word it, and we can't say, it's the word-being- to-the- Chinese-as- and in- India, these two want-and-of- world, if people not-o--h-h-h--st-cou-t-tut-cult--could-coup-st---ming-e---ming--st-stssk-o--n--gent. Today's-with-. The next-key-. Yeah.