H ello everyone . I'm, your substitute anchor Xoong, and welcome to the 55 9 th episode of reference information In. This county , 100 % of junior high school graduates with local household registration and their children have been admitted to regular senior high schools . This has sparked widespread public discussion about a reform of the high school entrance examination in Xingxi County. On January 2 2x i County education Bureau issued a document st. Thatingxi County will abolish the selection function of the high school entrance examination, achieving universal access to regular senior schools. It introduced measures to address the difficulties in allocating educational resources for the island population, an innovative mechanisms to establish universal access to senior high school within the county, starting from the fall semester of 202 5 The minimum score threshold for admission to regular senior high schools will be completely abolished . All 2 66 junior high school graduates, who applied for regular senior high school will be admitted . achieving universal access to education. The article was interpreted as abolishing the high school entrance examination, but a single county cannot decide whether to abolish the examination or not Later. The article was taken down, and a staff member of the county education. Bureau responded that some wording in the article needed to be revised and the article was temporarily withdrawn. They stated that abolishing the selection function of the high school entrance examination is not the same as abolishing the examination itself . we have not abolish the high school entrance examination . thehan Un education Bureau to whichingxi. Belonglongs also stated that after S hank xi . A boli shes, the selection function of the high school entrance examination , junior high school graduates will still need to participate in the examination , and they can all enter regular senior high schools . H owever , students will have the opportunity to be streamed in the first year of senior school, and they can choose to go to vocational high school based on their actual situation . Some students who cannot keep up with the regular senior high school curriculum will choose vocational high school. Many netizen suggested that this should be promoted nationwide , but this is a choice made by Shengxi based on local population trends. Shengxi is located in the easternmost part of Xjoan province in the northernmost part of the Zshan Islands with 63 1 islands. It has three towns and four townships in 2015. It had a registered population of 77 500 and in 202 4, the permanent population with 6400 with a natural population growth rate of- 6. 6, a negative growth for nearly 3 consecutive years. The number of birth to net year was 148, which is only 15, more than half of the 2 66 junior high school graduates. Shangxi currently has one regular senior high school with 256 students and one vocational school with 12 5 students. Uni access to vocational education helps to retain students who would otherwise leave the area in the fall semester of 202 59 students who were studying outside the area, return the retention rate of students from primary to junior high school reach 93 . 99 %, and the outflow of students decreased by nearly 10 percentage points compared to five years ago. If selection is based on competitive exams . parents might send their children to other regions with stricter academic standards H owever , if their children can directly enter high school. H ome town, they might send them back. However, , in areas with small populations , the problem of school places is easily solved while it's much more difficult than areas with large populations. Nationwide , the number of junior high school students peak this year, and the number of high school students is expected to peak in 202 9. These next few years are the most challenging. However, , looking at the birth rate trends, What is happening today might be possible nationwide tomorrow. Since 202 2, the number of births has been less than the number of university graduates. Last year, there were 7. 92 million newborns and 1.2 2 million university graduates. If universities maintain their current skill in 18 years, not only will everyone be able to go directly to high school, but also directly to university population trends are driving education reform, and it is expected to become a question on the entrance exam. The college entrance exam is for employment, but the return on investment in higher education is leading to less differentiation in employment opportunities. How should one choose recently, a graduate from Wuhan University of technology, working as a security guard was summoned by his alma mater, sparking a heated discussion online. Some believe the person involved is trying to gain attention and smear his alma mater, while others believe . H is career mistakes offer valuable lessons to others . Still others believe Wuhan University of Techologies's response shows a lack of confidence . M r. Shang 41 from day County Hubei provincence was the first in his village to graduate from a top university in 2008. He gave up on pursuing a master's degree and took his first job at a car manufacturing company. At that time, many people hadn't even heard of the company. His father thought it was a stateown car factory and a secure job, but he felt a sense of disappointment . his girlfriend went to another company, earning 60 0 yuan per month. M r. Shang quit after two months planning to earn more money elsewhere. His classmates, who stayed are now in middle and senior management positions at the company. After quitting. He went to Ningbo and joined a foreign trade company. After year, the company increased his salary by 300 yuan, and his annual bonus was less than 1000 yuan. He became familiar with the industry, but felt the company's business was too specialized in its future limited. So he jumped to another foreign trade clothing company. Over two years. He encountered various temptations and opportunities, and also experienced the ups and downs of the industry. In Ningbo. He rejected a company owners offered to become his son-in-law, and when Taobao online stores were just emerging, he declined a friend's invitation to start a business after returning to Wuhan. He entered the foreign trade industry and experienced . T. He roller coast arrived from industry peakaks to valleys . around 202 0 ,. He failed in his entrepreneurial ventures due to various reasons and then was unemployed for three years until he became a security guard at the end of 202 5 through a friend's introduction . His account previously posted content about tutoring children in English only after becoming a security guard and having more free time. Did he start sharing his work experiences . and several of his videos garnered millions of views . M r.n g said that his initial intention was to share experiences with netizens and help younger students avoid pitfalls . but he didn't expect these experiences to resonate with so many netizens . He summarized that many students from rural areas have a narrow perspective and are confused about postgraduate studies and job hunting. Many people in the comments section shared similar feelings based on their own experiences . He said. I was very eager back then to have someone who had been through it before telling me about the development prospects of a certain major or job field . But unfortunately, there wasn't anyone M r.n g said that after his videos gained popularity online, the propaganda department of Wuhan University of technology contacted him through his counselor to inquire about his experiences and whether he had encountered any difficulties, but they did not interfere with the content he posted . he said. My wife is also an associate professor at a university Now. He doesn't think my posts about. of a large number of traditional Chinese medicine companies withdrawing from the market should be a big deal . The 75 th article of its special Reg on the Reg management of traditional Chinese medicine issued by the state administration of traditional Chinese medicine in 202 3 is about to be implemented with only six months remaining in the grace period. The regulation states that starting three years after its implementation on July 1202 3 If. Any of the contraindications adverse reactions or precautions in the instructions are still unclear, Reg will be impossible. And thus, the product cannot be marketed according to 21 st. Century business herald. This is known in the industry as of life or death clause , meaning that more than 70 % of the approximately 5 700 0 existing valid approval numbers for traditional Chinese medicine products, which have safety information, labeling issues face elimination . however, , the reality is not so optimistic. The most effect are the so-called zombie drug approvals, , drugs that have registration certificates, but have not been produced or sold for a long time, lacking postmarketing, adversere monitoring data, etc. Some companies after weighing the economic benefits will abandon their registration . I . S ever al drug manufacturers have indicated that after the policy was introduced in 202 3, they have begun to improve their product descriptions , and the policy has had little impact on them. The People's Daily also expressed support for traditional Chinese medicine TC, stating that this will better ensure the safe use of TCM by the public. The high prices and adverse reactions of TCM have repeatedly attracted attention in the 2018 edition of the nationalEssential medicines list among the 46 5 instructions for 8 types of TCM. The labeling rates for adverse reactions, , countryindations and drug interactions were only 2. 64 % 30 . 1 % and 1. 07 %, respectively. , the 202 2 national TCm supervision blue book shows that there are approximately 2400 TCM manufacturers, and more than 900 0 Tcm varieties in C hina , but there is a large amount of low- level duplication and unclear clinical value , resulting in a serious mismatch between the number of approvals and the quality of the industry. In February of this year, , the state council issued an opinion on improving the quality of TCM and promoting the high- quality development of the TCM industry. , proposing to improve the withdrawal mechanism for TCM approval numbers , I, some any eliminate others. , marking the end of the era of 1 hn der 0 TCM approval accumulation in the next three to five years. , 3t o4 out of 10 T c. W ill exit the market . A study published on economic issues in China question, whether canceling drug price markups can reduce medical expenses research using outpatient data from countylevel public hospitals in multiple cities. , studying the medical service costs data of more than 300 00 patients in five cities from 2013 to 201 7 showed that after the drug markup policy was implemented in 2010, outpatient drug costs, non-drug costs and total costs increase significantly. The reason is the substantial increase in TCM costs and the rise in diagnosis and treatment service fees. Tcm prices are easily manipulated due to huge profit margins and drug registration rebates can even reach 70 %, coupled with a certain bias towards TCM in the DP payment reform. Some hospitals are happy to accept this. The latest medical insurance catalog implemented this year includes 325 3 types of drugs, including 13, 35 types of traditional Chinese medicine TC. It still includes 49 drugs containing ingredients from eight endangered animal species such as pangolin scales, , tiger, bones and seahorses, the national health security administration NHSA stipulated in its . 202 0 regulations on basic medical insurance drug management that drugs containing precious and endangered wild animal and plant components will not be included in the medical insurance catalog . This current practice and regulation contradict the previous statement on January 26. The National Health Commission held a press conference to introduce the experience of promoting the three reforms in one innovation initiative in promoting the new development of traditional Chinese medicineine The, director of the Department of traditional Chinese medicine and Western medicine integration and minority medicine of the national administration of Tra Chinese. Mediine mentioned the TCM has been fully integrated into the Healthy China A, and currently it has achieved full coverage of all departments in tertiary public hospitals, nationwide carrying out TCM intervention pilot programs for children and adolescents with myopia, Ob and scoliosis In fact , in June. Last year, , the national administration of traditional Chinese medicine, specifically disclosed related progress 23 regions, conducted TCM intervention pilot programs for Child and adolescent obesity 26 regions, and three provinces conducted TCM pilot programs for scoliosis and the first batch of 60 TCM intervention techniques for preventing and controlling myopia in children and adolescents, achieve positive progress in basic public health services by 202 4, a total of 25 . 97 million children aged 0. 36 months have received TCM health services , including dietary guidance and activity guidance, In 202 2 ,. The overall myopia rate among Chinese children and adolescents reached 5 1. 9 % , including 4.7 % in primary school, , 7 1.4 % in junior high school and 8 1.2 % in senior high school. The overall myopia rate decrease from 52 . 6 % in 202 1, but data for the following three years has not yet been released, whether the downward trend can be maintained, requires continuous attention, can TCM prevent and treat myopia Kong Zong, director of the national traditional Chinese medicine center for prevention and treatment of myopia in children and adolescents stated that on the basis of developing good eye habits, improving the eye environmentron and scientifically fitting glasses ,. The application of TCM techniques such as eye exercises, a regular accupressure acupuncture, cupping and oral TCM can effectively prevent and control the occurrence and development of myopia. The eye exercise widely used since the 19 60s is a massage technique for accuup pointss around the eyes guided by traditional Chinese medicine theory. It relaxes eye muscles by stimulating nerves, promotes blood circulation around the eyes and relieves eye fatigue . H owever , large - scale international studies have shown that the only effective method to prevent myopia is to increase outdoor activity time , ensuring at least two hours per day , but for many students, , two hours of outdoor time daily is almost a luxury on campus. Students. Outdoor time is often squeezed out and after the crackdown on afterchool tutoring, tutoring has moved underground various tutoring institutions, especially online platforms, fill children and teenagers leisure time. The national Health, Commission and 13 other departments recently issued the action plan for promoting the health of children and adolescents. 202 2 - 202 3, the myopia, Prevention and control goal is that by 2 03 0, the vision screening rate for children aged 0t o6 in primary and secondary school students will gradually increase the myopia rate for six yearold. Children will be controlled at around 3 %. The myopia rate for primary school students will decrease to below 32 % for junior high school students to below 60 % and for senior high school students to a lower level regarding formalism and bureaucracy in the digital age. Recently, with the closure of the Chiishhan education payment app in Wusi Cityhgsu province, , all provincial and subprovincial government service apps were canceled totaling . T. He remaining government service applications were all migrated to the Suhuan app . T. His formalism is a variation of bureaucracy in the digital context, and one of the main manifestations of increased burden on grassroots levels. In August 202 4 , two departments issued several regulations on streamlining bureaucracy and reducing burdens on grassroots levels requiring the cleaning up and integration of government service applications aimed at the grassroots in September Zhgsu province, launched a government service app for household registration , implementing comprehensive registration management. In June 202 5. It was explicitly required that no more government apps be developed below the provincial level, and existing ones should be migrated to the Sufuan app before the end of the year. This is just the tip of the iceberg of the nationwide cleanup of government service applications. As of September 202 5 Guangdong province had completed the filing of 2 33 government applications and 1 79 government mini programs, and 52 inefficient government applications, and 32 government mini programs were shut down in late J anuar y ,. The Guangxi government app completely stopped updating, and the account cancellation process was simultaneously launched. All original app content and services will be integrated and migrated to the Guong app as of November Zjihong Huzhou had deactivated 135 low efficiency . A pps and merged and transferred one similar app , saving over 320 0 CPU cores and freeing up over 8400 gigs of memory over 220. Terabtes of storage was freed up , equivalent to the working memory of hundreds of servers. , saving an estimated 16 million yuan in government funds as of D ecem ber , Sichuan province had integrated over 10000 government mobile internet applications. , a 14 % reduction compared to before the centralized rectification in 202 4, with a significant 32 % reduction in government mobile applications recently , the state council issued standardized management measures for government mobile internet applications. , requiring that the following situations should not occur arbitrarily are repeatedly requiring grassroots units to fill out forms , submit data and provide materials, setting mandatory functions, such as clocking in , signing in pointran and calculating online time, except for regulations in special scenarios, such as security and confidentiality 3, forcing promotion and use , assessing and reporting user installation and usage rates and mandating regular logins using government applications as the main carrier for daily work assessment in online supervision and inspection . U sing likes , online votes, , shares and learning time as evaluation criteria, , and in unnecessary situations. , forcing subordinate in grassroots units to upload work, photos, , videos and trajectories through government applications. ,. It also requires all regions and departments to rectify problems, such as excessive data collection, , abuse of rankings and multiple reporting. Currently, government applications with low- us frequency and weak usability are being deactivated, and those with similar and overlapping functions are being integrated and migrated local government debt, subprovincial fiscal reform and government E Invest are three major themes in local finance that we have been following for a long time after the unsustainability of land finance , many places have taken over a number of surplus new energy projects. Now under the pressure of local finance and overcapacity in related industries, they are beginning to collect debts from enterprises ST Mu Bang recently announced that the Wuzhou municipal government of Guangxi province ordered the company to return 510 million yuan in financial subsidies and construction funds to the Wuzhou Gausxing district Management Committee and the Wuzhou Management Committee of the Uiggu Cooper, special Exp, zoneones finance and financial Bureau, and to pay 51 million yuan in liquidated damages. The project, which predates July 202 2 involved in investment . 5. 2 billion yuan in a solar cell production base with an annual production capacity of over 10 gigawats in the Wuzhou Gaoxing district . the Wuzhou municipal government dispersed 510 million yuan to St B and its subsidiaries at the end of 202 3. But the project repeatedly failed to start production after construction last J uly ,. The company was ordered to return the funds and bear the liability for breach of contract Y Jing A uto to electronics ,. The first listed company in the solar energy industry. , announced at the end of last year that its solar project in Xhuzhouwe province, , was subject to a hearing notice from its partner Kan Lixian after construction Y Jing Autoeronics subsequently terminated the investment agreement and recovered 140 million yuan in invested funds . Bangji. Company limited also announced that it had received a court decision initiating pre- reorganization proceedings against the company. The reorganization applicant to Suzhoujio Enprise management C ompa ny , limited in Washou Lakesu W ang , which invested 300 million yuan in a subsidiary of Bji Company limited in 202 3 Later due to the failure of Bjie Company limited to complete the share repurchase on time . It compensated 32 6 millionu In addition , Bji Company limited solar energy Cooper project signed with the Yangzhou Jinkai district ands Jinkai district in 202 3 was also terminated in 202 5 due to changes in market conditions . and the company was required to pay 15 million yuan in compensation . most of these projects originated in 202. 2. T. He year of rapid growth in the solar energy industry when traditional enterprises expanded production on a large scale, and many companies crossed over into the industry to chase the trend and make money of the three solar energy companies mentioned above two or crossindus companies , St Mu Bang is a toy company known as the Chinese version of Lego and Bji Company limited mainly engageds in clothing manufacturing St Mu B had previously indicated in its agreement that the company was not engaged in the solar cellll business at the time, like relevant R talent and production technology reserves. Yijing Optoelectronics also warned that the tops battery module products it was investing and had not yet been mass produced and verified by customers, and there were uncertainties in subsequent sales . however, , during the industry's boom period, , local governments placed great importance on attracting investment in the solar power sector. Example, the Guanzhou County government established a special team to coordinate and handle issues related to the approval, construction and operation of a photoelectric company, providing several lowco production factors, including the guaranteed supply of 100 acres of land and the government undertaking the construction of a substation within the factory premises , the Wuzhou municipal government. On the other hand, , proposed to invest in the construction of factory buildings and basic supporting facilities for St, granting them six years of rent- fr use rights and providing substantial financing support starting in the second half of 202 3. The problem . C apa city in the solar power industry erupted , leading to continuous production cuts and capacity controls within the industry . The negative consequences of excessive investment attraction in some regions are now becoming apparent , and it's time for accountability . O kay ,. That's all for this episode's reference information. See you again next weekend .