(Advertisement) The AI software chatgbt was back in the search for the scene And this time, OpenAI came back with the big move SORA2 The head of the hat pointed to another technology giant, Maita SORA is a development of OpenAI, an AI video production software This time, Sour2 not only has a powerful AI video production function And it also comes with a full set of social platform facilities Users can make their own short videos And upload them to the platform and share with friends To show off a brand new social media software The product is already online and quickly rubs the screen With the kind of flashback of TikTok's time when it was the main beauty You know, when TikTok was a big hit Facing the threat Meta's share price has dropped by 70% So this time, faced with the strong challenge of SORA2 Will Meta also face a similar impact? And from the perspective of OpenAI Why does it start to build a platform To face the steel technology giant How will the future AI giant re-establish the entire technology industry? Today's video I will talk about this topic from the perspective of investors In fact, in February last year, OpenA announced their first generation of Soura At that time, Soura also attracted a lot of investors' attention However, when the product is really pushed to the user The actual situation is very different from what people expect And the application value is relatively limited So in the end, it didn't raise too much water However, this time the situation is completely different Sour has landed and got a very positive response I don't know about you, but I've been I've been screened by Sour's videos recently My colleagues in the office also play A.I. videos every day A lot of fans also sent me invitations This is really a bit like the TikTok fire So what kind of changes has Sour 2 brought this time? From a technical point of view, the update of Soura this time is indeed very advanced. The videos that Soura has been releasing so far are all single scenes or single narrative, but now the new Soura not only supports complex scenes, but also has a new height in narrative connectivity. In addition, Soura can also support synchronized sound effects, including background sounds, white-pattern and extra-diversity dubbing. From the performance effect, it is far superior to the same product on the market. And the biggest change this time is in the understanding of AI ​​in the physical world The biggest problem with most AI video applications before is that they don't understand the rules of the physical world This is also one of the biggest difficulties of AI video So many complicated actions are imitated by AI This is why AI video always gives people a fake sense of humanity There is even a kind of horror effect And this update, Sauron did make a very obvious improvement From my own experience, most of his actions look natural Including human actions, the imitation of the mouth has almost reached the same level as the real person OpenAI's official blog also emphasized that in the previous version, they had to twist the object to change the reality in order to implement the requirements of the text But now most scenes are completely in line with the physical rules of the real world 不过最让资本市场感到震撼的还不是技术本身而是Sora附带了一套全新的商业模式以前人们对于Sora的定位还是一个AI视频的生成工具而本次Sora2不仅有AI视频生成功能而且还配备了全套的社交平台设施用户可以直接在Sora上去刷AI短视频使用体验和刷TikTok和Instagram别无而至而且最为关键的是它还有着社交属性 The SORA app has a function called "CAMUZ" You can scan your own face to generate your own virtual character This virtual character is not like the cartoon character of iOS But AI-generated fake human Its authenticity is very close to your own shooting You can input a short speech to let SORA generate a short video with your virtual character For example, you can let it generate a video of you shaking hands with Ultraman and talking This video can be shared on SORA's social platform Your friends can also see and interact with you And you can also share your Camus with your friends to generate a multi-person video For example, you can make a video of playing with a few friends at the beach Obviously, Soura has further expanded the social media boundaries and brought a new user experience Of course, Soura is not perfect at this stage There are indeed many problems For example, the video is too short Usually only 10 seconds And the speed of production is very slow The picture quality is not clear enough But it is not to be denied that this Sour2 does bring a subversive user experience It can be said that it has co-combined the most advanced AI technology video production with the most popular online application short video. In my opinion, this is the first truly meaningful online AI application product on the market. So what impact will such a subversive product have on the current technology industry? It is obvious that the ambition of Sour2 is only about social media platforms. The company also clearly pointed out at the press conference that they want to build a new social application scene. So will this threaten the status of social media dragon and Meta? Before the brief answer, Mito Jun wants to share with you a good-use US-based stock trading company, Futomumu. On the Mumu, you can not only get the company's financial reports of US stocks at the first time, but also understand more about the company's data in real time and depth. For example, the performance of the surplus period, the change in the shareholder shareholding and the stock market of the star stocks. At the same time, you can also track the data of the stock market, the account, and the employment, and have a realistic chart. Now Mumu's AI assistant function can help you find the latest data, call professional tools, and summarize investment information. For example, you can directly ask what opportunities should be paid attention to after the TSMC, it can give you a summary of the data knowledge and the clear analysis of the structure, and many common AI illusions are missing. MuMu not only can trade US stocks and Hong Kong stocks, but also supports encrypted currency transactions. MuMu also opened an IPO function for US, Singapore and Hong Kong users this year. MuMu's new stock exchange fee is not charged regularly, and it can be bought after the profit. In addition, MuMu's exchange rate of US stocks and ETFs is zero. The contract fee for the acquisition is also zero. Now, the US dollar has also won the exclusive benefits of the US dollar fans Through the link to the following top comments, friends in the United States can open a bank account for $1,000 You can get a $200 dollar dollar dollar per person At most, you can also get a $1,000 dollar dollar per person The minimum capital can be obtained at 8.1% annual income Friends of Canada now have 1,400 coins, and can also get a metalpro member. Up to 4,600 coins of cash rewards and various discounts on the immune system. I will put the details of the activity in the description below. Thanks for watching, and act quickly. In terms of the impact of SORA on Meta, investors have to look at it from a short-term and a long-term perspective. From a short-term perspective, I think SORA's impact on Meta is almost zero. Although the AI video SORA makes now has a very big improvement compared to itself, there is still a big difference between the entertainment and the experience of watching and the real video. Now that Sora has just been interviewed, it does bring an experience But more people just taste it first If you keep watching, you'll find the problem very soon Sora's video is only about 10 seconds The content can be carried out very limited You will be tired of it soon Once you go back to TikTok, you will find that the real video is more interesting The most fundamental reason behind this is that the problem of cost and cost is stuck in the neck But the cost is not enough, the cost is high, the quality of the video is destined to be impossible And the number of videos and time are also severely restricted And all of these are not problems that can be solved very quickly So in the short term, Sora is destined to be difficult to reach the current high of the short video platform On the other hand, META's social media platform also has many advantages that are hard to reach in the short term. Let's not talk about the social user base of hundreds of millions of META. Technically, the algorithm that META has been working on for more than ten years, the ecosystem of META content distribution system, the ecosystem of creators, the business model of META mature advertising business writing, the motivation for creators, etc. All of these are not something that OpenAI can catch up with in the short term. In short, META does not have AI video. All short video platforms now have a lot of AI video production, and the algorithm and service are even more superior. For users, they don't have to go to another platform specifically to watch AI videos. And for creators, compared to the short video effect itself, they need a strong ecosystem. No matter how good my videos are, no one can watch them. So even if they use Soura's powerful features, they will also want to share them on Meta, which is more eco-friendly. So you see, investors in the short term don't have to worry about Soura's influence. So will Soura threaten social media companies like Meta in the long term? This is the topic that is really worth discussing today. 为什么现在的AI视频不够好呢前面说了有算力卡脖子的问题可我们知道长期来看算力平静注定会得到解决那么一旦算力解决了AI视频能够匹配真人视频甚至实现超越吗我个人认为这是必然会发生的趋势 Looking back at the history of the past 100 years, the content of the video from the beginning of the movie to the later TV and then to the later Internet long video, finally to the mobile end short video As technology continues to improve, we see more and more creators and more and more content And the corresponding video content also occupies more users' usage time, and eventually creates more business models And at the same time, the subversion has been happening The rise of TV has taken the position of a movie And the rise of Internet long videos has further impacted the position of TV And now the rise of short videos is inevitable Will impact the use time of long videos Although the film industry and TV industry have not fallen in the past 100 years But it is also impossible to communicate with the time of the year So you see, for hundreds of years, we have always seen a continuous and unchanging trend, which is a continuous expansion of the content industry and the continuous growth of content industry. And the root cause of this trend is the continuous decline in the cost of content production caused by technological progress. Because of the decline in cost, more creators are willing to participate, and more and more content and more business models are destined to repeat the original business pattern. And the current AI content is basically just another cost reduction. According to the same logic, I believe that AI content will further expand the market scale of the entire content industry, but at the same time it will also repeat the existing situation within the industry. This is a continuous and unchanging trend that has been verified for hundreds of years. So, if META, which is at the top of the original content industry, does not make any changes, I think it is also destined to be subverted by the new AI content format. I know this conclusion sounds a bit radical now Let's take a look at how it will be subverted if it is really subverted Maybe you understand this question, you will understand why I said so Some people say that Meta can completely put AI videos into its current social platform Users can watch real people's videos and also watch AI videos Why is it subverted? Then let's think about this question Why don't TV stations play long videos on TV? I believe that when the Internet video first appeared, someone would definitely think so Even if the Internet video is good, wouldn't it be the same if I put it on TV? But we also saw that the TV station not only had no way to play Internet videos, but was also completely forced to be cornered by the Internet mode. Why? The fundamental reason is not whether the TV station has the ability to play videos, but that the Internet technology revolution has completely changed the way people use content. The Internet has brought a new use of content and a new experience of content use. These are all the original TV shows that cannot be copied. Even if you put the same content on TV, you can't compete with the Internet platform So what technology revolution brings is a new scene, not new content I think the current AI content is the same What many people are concerned about now is the AI content generated by Sora They think this is just another form of short video People's thinking still remains whether this short video will impact the current social platform of Meta However, the real impact of Meta will not be short videos of AI, but the new use of scenes and experience brought by AI What kind of scene and experience is it? We may not know now, just like people in the TV era will not imagine how people use content in the Internet era But I still want to use my frequent imagination to blow your brains For example, will the main content form in the future be no longer 2D short videos, but 3D immersive content? Will the media that uses content in the future no longer be computers or mobile phones, but glasses that can show 3D content or full-length photos? Even wearable equipment with a sense of body Will the social interaction between people no longer be based on visualized pictures or text, but through the brain interface to achieve mental communication? Of course, these are all the imagination of some sky and earth But when it comes to the actual situation We can also realize some trends that will inevitably happen The first subversion brought by Sora is definitely not as simple as how to make a short video But to change the state of the whole content Sora is destined to be from short videos to long videos to movies Even 3D immersive experience or the original universe We can't just use the current AI short video to judge his impact on social media Second, we should also realize that if the social media of Meta still remains in the current Internet mode and does not make changes, then it is destined not to be able to integrate the new content use scenarios and experience brought by future AI content. Just like the TV that was then unable to integrate the Internet's long video. Does this mean that Meta is already hopeless? I don't think so If you don't want to be subverted, Meta needs to use the original AI mode to do AI content and carry AI content, instead of using the Internet mode to integrate Just like the TV station of the year, if you don't want to be subverted by the Internet video, you have to actively embrace the Internet, do Internet content, and develop Internet products So the most important question is, can Meta do it? Will it be completely subverted like traditional TV? Or will it be like Microsoft Apple, which has overcome many technological revolutions and still has no effect? In fact, faced with threats, Meta also has its own way of handling them. We also saw that the management team has just started to take targeted actions on these threats that we have just analyzed. For example, META's obsession with smart glasses and the concept of the universe It shows that they have begun to prepare for the use of the original AI content In addition, they are now hitting the gold and silver to attract AI It also shows that they have realized the key to solving the problem In addition to these long-term plans, I think that the competition for the development of AI video tools in the face-to-face is also a step that META must take Now, although the video created by Soura can still be shared on Meta, but such a powerful ability is in the hands of others, and there is no way to deal with it, it will always be a threat to Meta. In addition, the ability of AI to create videos is not to be underestimated. Since you can easily make a video that is hot on the whole network with a paragraph, then can AI use big data to understand your preferences and create a video that can catch your attention? I think the possibility is also very high So Meta must also have similar products To have the courage to face the impact of short-term AI video Fortunately, we have seen Meta working with Me Journey To enhance its ability to generate and produce videos in AI vision It can be seen that the company has already begun this arrangement So can Meta finally successfully deal with the threat? I must admit that the uncertainty faced by Meta is indeed very high. I believe that different people will have different judgments on whether it can be successful. Next, I will talk about my personal views and give you a reference. As many of you know, Meta is one of the most closely-following companies I've been following. In my Meta Pro, I also made a follow-up to Meta, and I've been following its technology and basic changes. I think I know a lot about Meta. In my opinion, Meta is actually capable of dealing with the subversive impact of this AI content. First of all, I am very confident in the management layer of Meta. To be honest, the impact of TikTok was not smaller than the impact of Soura. Meta also experienced a terrible price fall, and the number of users has dropped. In the face of this situation, Meta's management layer made a quick adjustment in a very short time. Through the two products of Rails and Thread, the leg was successfully twisted. This ability to counteract the countermeasures of the threat is not the ability of all management layers. It has already been verified. So I am more confident that META is capable of dealing with threats in the subversive revolution of AI. I am also willing to believe that the management layer has META's stock. In addition, in the short term, META's social property, creation ability and user base can still maintain a relatively long-term advantage for the company. And the continuous improvement in AI can also continue to complement the growth of existing business, and will not cause a conflict in the business model like Google. From this point of view, the company also has a good window period to deal with the subversive threats brought by AI content. And from another angle, that is, from the perspective of OpenAI, the situation is even more so. We now see that OpenAI is going to subvert Google and Meta It seems that OpenAI is like a demon king To abolish all the technological giants But in fact, from the perspective of OpenAI They have no motivation to subvert anyone OpenAI is now facing a huge competition Their primary task is not to develop a new business model But to ensure that their own large-scale model can always be in the leading position Especially in the early stages of technology development, the variables are very large, it is difficult to say that OpenAI can always be filial to the end. At this time, if resources are put into operating search platforms or social media, it is destined to affect the development of technology. And once OpenAI's technology is no longer ahead, it is difficult for it to have any business model. I want to make it clear And you know, whether it's Google or Meta, what they're really good at is not just technology, but also the very mature ability to change the line. If you really want to fight the commercial model, OpenAI is not necessarily your opponent. So you will find that the threat of the right to do social media and Meta hard steel is actually greater than the threat to Meta. So in summary, I personally think that the probability of Meta being subverted is actually very low. So the threat of this round of harassment and the threat of new AI content that may appear at any time in the future I think it will be a good investment opportunity for the company. I personally wouldn't have sold my Meta stock because of this. On the contrary, if I see Meta continue to fall behind in AI progress, and even start to give up AI investment under market pressure, and focus on the Internet degeneration, then I think it's the real start of the Meta company being subverted. Well, that's it for the SORA impact on Meta. If you like such a deep study of each bone, welcome to subscribe to this channel. I will share some deep researches of each bone with you again, and give you my clear opinion. I have also put the related video analysis links I have done in the video summary area. Thank you for watching and welcome to self-curricular. If you want to know more about the depth analysis of each share, you are also welcome to come to my METO PRO. METO PRO is a stock research platform I created specifically for Chinese investors. In METO PRO, I will do a comprehensive basic analysis of each share, and track down changes in the basic surface. In addition, I will share the stock opportunity, monthly red light reports, and daily news summary. For new investors, we also provide a whole system of investment teaching In addition to watching the video content, you can also communicate with the top 1000 members to invest and share your investment experience and investment opportunities Thank you for watching and welcome to subscribe to the new user seven days free trial, come and experience it If you like the video, don't forget to like it, follow it and forward it. Thank you.