。 。 C entering on peace on BTV is supported in part by the Burkes Peace community . 。 Hi , welcome to another edition of Center and P ea ce . My name is Firemas F arbo . I teach politics at Moravian U niversity . In this episode , my guest is I Abraham Y oun g ,. He was a distinguished professor. Of Middle East history and politics at Beuch College, and he's an author of many books , including Iran between two revolutions , the 195 3 coup and a forthcoming book titledThe Inable R evolution , which he deals with the Revolution in Iran in 197 9 . 。 I am very pleased to have him tonight to discuss ongoing protests in Iran and also other issues that the world is now paying attention to , including the attack against V ene zuela , the kidnapping of the President there and issues related to Israel Palestine Thank you for joining the program. A r. T hank you for the inviting me . O kay ,. So why not start with Iran? Because that is what you know everyone is now paying attention to. We've seen another round of demonstrations that began on December 28 . Of last year basically sparked by devaluation of Iran's currency Rial in relationship to dollar , something I think that happened like 16 % shock to it in that month ,. But overall, the realal has lost about 84 % of its value in the entire year of 202 5. And also issues of inflation , issues related to the sanctions , economic sanctions against Iran led to the protests that began apparently in the B aza ar , in T ehr, an , the segment of the Bazaar that deals with traders in electronic devices and cell phones and stuff, and the first day was ,. 。 Q uit e peaceful , but starting on December 29, others joined some students. And then spread later. And right now, if you're like two weeks into it, , apparently maybe half the provinces of I ran , some people say are convulsed . By these demonstrations , if that's the right term to use , there has been violence now , especially since January 8t h. T. He first , let's say , nine , 10 days , perhaps Iran's state did not use much violence, , comparatively speaking , with the previous five or six demonstrations that Iran has experienced serious demonstrations since the revolution of 197. 9 . 。 B ut since a few nights ago, , there was a blackout , internet was cut off ,. There's a lot of talking about a lot of violence on both sides ,. Some protesters resorted to violence, , security services resorted to violence. As of this morning, I read that some human rights organizations have recorded at least 115 or 1 16 deaths on the protest side . 。 T hous ands of injuries ,. Some doctors have told anti Iran state news , let's say, journalists and sites that doctors are saying hospitals in some cities are dealing with a lot of injuries and some, you know, bodies, , dead bodies and stuff. So . L et ' s begin with your views on these issues. , what do you think is going on and why ? W ell , the protests are not new . I mean , actually , the revolution occurred in 79 by 198 2. ,. You had mass demonstrations at that time of the Mu almost uprising . A nd from then on every so often , there have been a massive street demonstrations . So. That's not new . I think what's more , What is new and more serious is something you alluded to , which is that it started in the central B aza ar . N ow ,. The last time a protest started in Central. Bazaar was actually in 78 , and it accumulated into the revolution . So. The bazaar was actually crucial for the 79 revolution . 。 H eren ow , I think the seriousness of it is the entry of the Bazaar. Because if you look back in the previous protests, , there have been mostly either students , women , poor . B ut the Bazarus beat me sort of on the sideline . Y ou have actually incredible pictures and eyewitness accounts of the big demonstrations against stolen presidential elections, where actually , people Ba ara ,. They were interested . They watched in the street , but they didn't participate . So this a new ball game . B ut, whether that's going to lead to actually the collapse of the regime is I would question that , I mean many people like that and hope for that and expect that . 是啊。 B ut I think there's a still a difference between what is happening now and what happened in 78 79 . The difference , I think , is that the old monarchy lacked legitimacy . It had been put to power by the CIA MI6 ,. It was basically a foreign imposed regime . So during its upheaval , the Shah actually couldn't negotiate with anyone because no one considered it legitimate . A nd that was basically the Achilles hill of the Parari regime . T. His regime came to power with a massive legitimacy ,. It was one of the most popular revolutions in world history. That's usually the historians who actually would agree with that . B ut since then , it has systematically carried out sort of salami tactics on its own supporters . G et ting rid of this group , that group , that group. So its base has shrunk dramatically ,. But it still has some legitimacy because it came to power with this very highly popular revolution of 79 . So. This legitimacy is still , I think , very much rooted in the guards , the military , the revolutionary guards , to some extent that, of course, , the clergy . A nd some of the Bazaar people . W ho moved out of the Bazaar where still identify with the regime, so you can actually find individuals who were low level shopkeepers in the Bazaar. Before ' 79. Now they're in charge of the petroleum industry. It's an incredible sort of social mobility from lower petty bourgeoisie to the very top of the Iranian regime . So. There is still , I think a hardcore ,. It's not big , but it's still a hardcore that has a vested interest in the regime . So. That's why I don't expect the regime will abdicate or dissolve or fool the Revolutionary guards are still they're violent. , their ideologically motivated ,. They're still willing to actually kill if order to do so . So more likely to in the collapse of the regime is that the revolutionary guards at some point might actually take over themselves . T hat won't solve the problem because they'll actually further delegitimize themselves without the clerical sort of facade ,. But I would say, if I was putting money on it, , I would expect put the money on a revolutionary guard coup rather than actually collapse of the regime . T here ' sal. So , I think people more level headed people in Iran don't like the regime . B ut I think they're aware that there is a greater danger just than change of regime because I think the US policy and the Israeli policy isn't a better Iran or change of regime , their policy is what the same policy they had in Iraq in Libya in S yr ia , which is actually the destruction of the state , . 。 So, you can actually find in Israeli think tanks , maps of Iran that divide up the country into little ethnic groups. ,. Ironically, they take those maps from actually old Soviet anthropologists who were interested in ethnic groups. So they see Iran as a mosaic of many different ethnic groups. And from their point of view, it would be ideally if Iran disappeared. And instead, you had a number of small little entities, what I think that misses is that, that sort of ethnicity has actually withered away. And what you have now is very much a national consciousness . 。 A nd I don't think people who are at all nationalically aware when it comes to a question of destruction of I ran ,. They would rather actually hold on a regime. They don't like, rather than have actually the destruction of the state . A nd some people delude themselves into thinking actually . T, he US is interested protecting protesters ,. They're interested in a new Iran that would be democratic and so on ,. But they're misjudging that their agenda that was not their agenda in either Libya or Iraq or Syria and I think they have the same thisineg agenda for Iran. It's interesting to say that because just looking at the way mainstream Persian language , let's say Iranian language mostly from United States, and they do obviously have so-called antire perspective ,. But when you listen to them , it's basically saturated with commentary that both they, and they believe or perceive many people in I ran , thinking that this time this demonstration, this wave of protest is a turning point . 。 A nd, they share that sentiment , they advertise and advocate that sentiment . N ow , clearly, you don't share that sentiment that this is not a turning point ,. But you did refer also to, you know, new elements in, in this, you know, , so-called new movement right now, , a couple of things that comes to my mind that I'd like to ask you about your opinion that is new , for instance, , today in this movement is that the the young people , let's say, the generation that is participating in the protest , let's say they're in their 20s and 30 s. 。 C om p. To, let's say, , the Maa Ammini period or to the late 201 9 demonstrations that and 201 71 8 came as a result of, let's say, fuel gas, rising prices, , etc. Cea . When, you compare this period to those periods . T here was a There was some kind of a hope , maybe in those periods , even when people were demonstrating that maybe the reformist . F ion of ,. Let's say, the government or the state will be able to address some of their ,. Let's say, , grievances compared to the ,. Let's say, principal ists , the other conservative groups . we can almost for with certainty and disagree with me. If you will say that the new generation of people have gone beyond principalist versus reformists and , you know, , basking their hopes in one or the other camp . that might be one new element . and that the other new element that might be even more . L et say。 S igni fica nce is that all the other previous demonstration and protest movement took place at a time when in the last 10 or so years , at a time when there was a lot of discussion about possibility of lifting sanctions against Iran, because there was all these back and forth about the so-called new, the Iran nuclear deal , JCPOA . Now that is gone . So. This particular protest is happening when everyone knows that there is no JCPOA that came to an end sanctions or return. the U resolutions , all this 6 in the past, where reenacted as a result of the snapback mechanism that we saw . So. This generation of people have passed . 。 K ind of like transition , they're thinking about principalists versus reformists . They also know that sanctions are here. There's no nuclear deal , no negotiations , none of that . And anyone was attacked seven months ago with Israel, you know, , that so calledled 12 day were . Do. You think that the combination or conversion of all these new factors might create . P ossi ties that you and I or analysts might miss when we look ahead in terms of what the outcome might be when we think . O ur insights should come from previous movements under different circumstances without these new elements . Well I think . U nd erly issue is what's happened , I think with the new generation is that the whole discourse has shifted away from Islam religion . B ack to actually of individual rights . Un knowingly , actually , the young generation has gone back to the early 2 0t h century generation of seeing Iranian politics through the eyes of the enlightenment of natural rights, , individual rights. , secularism , separation of the clergy from politics . A nd not not do not exploiting religion and people's prejudices . So I think that's what common element in the protests in all these protests . A fte r I would say I've had in a yard . I think that there is , as you point out , before there was a reformist element that had a hope that they would do . O kay that reformist element has been undercut in part by harm A , but also in most part by United States. Many of those people wanted basically a deal with the United S tates ,. They got a deal. It was the United States that pulled the rug out of them other them ,. So that prospect is no longer there , but still I think the people who want to reform the system, and there are plenty of those people . A re aware of the United States or lack of support from U nited . T. Hey, could still regroup and offer an alternative that instead of overthrowing the regime and then maybe even the state and disintegration of the state that you can actually move the Islamic Republic to a more of a rep Democratic Republic So that I mean I hope. That is the one road that exists, because if that doesn't exist , then I see basically a collapse of the whole regime. And all that goes along with it , I mean , look back with I ra. Q. 。 B efore the American invasion. There were plenty of people who thought that if you just got rid of Saddam H uss ein , you would have democracy ,. You would have an older paradise in Israel in Egypt in in Iraq. Even many leftists were talking about basically democratic Iraq, because they said know, Saddam Hussein was so bad that people were willing to go to a very different system ,. Well, that didn't happen and Iran could fall into the same, basically a pit as Syria and I ra q ,. So that is I think not nightmare situation. And people who were clamoring for basically overthrow the regime should keep that aware of back of their head . W hat is the alternative. So that recently, the sort of the messiah that's still appeared is that the Shah is somehow going to bring democracy to I ran . He has no Democratic past . The regime does P Leis have no Democratic past . He could make some sounds . and then how actually the the royalists in exile treat other opponents is with indication. Not they may talk about democracy , but they don't actually act as democracy , especially once they come into power . Y eah ,. You can see that in the even behavior of the monarchist online with anyone who says anything , know , critical of let's sayvi or anything about monarchy or anything . So, they really like viciously attack you . N ow , I agree with that . So. This kind of like unforgivable or unforgiving naivete that you were describing about , let's say, Iraqi forces, , social forces in Iraqi prior to the disintegration of their state as a result of US invasion and occupation . If. It happens ,. It is a nightmare scenario , but you said, you use the word hope , you hope that this is not the case . A nd I'm going to read into your word wording , which you said , hope that perhaps you just like me , I've been looking at the, you know, , mainstream opposition in Iran and also the diaspora opposition to I ran , I have as yet to see any single person with any kind of name recognition , for instance, , to come and say, to T rump . 。 Y ouk now , stick with your own , you know. , management of your own country . Don't interfere with I ran . We don't need your help . You know ,. We don't want to hear you talk about your , you know, , ready and locked and loaded. And , you know , all that kind of stuff . none of them has ever said it ,. They don't say it , they actually , when they speak , they're all welcoming . 。 It seems like , you know, , interference from outside . ,. There was a time when they were cautious and they would say , no , we don't want , let's say, external military interference with I ran . But even that is going away. Because when theyre talking about , you know , T rump , we like you . You know , that's what you're supposed to do. , please do what you said you're gonna do ,. It's clear that the only thing he can do , possibly is use military force in I ran , which he did . You know , seven months ago, , Israel did . So that is very disheartening to me . I don't know if you share my sentiments . So. When we say the opposition . 。 M ay, be, you should think in terms of some kind of a dialogue based transition to something different and better in I ran , who are these oppositional figures who may think about dialogue based . D es and transition with some elements of the current government in I ran , especially because harmony . And I think this is something that many people didn't notice , harmmin is . S pe ech making the other day , not the other day ,. But there was four days ago , I think he spoke to in that speech, what stuck out to me that he said, one thing that many people picked up, which he says, which he made a distinction between rioters and legit protesters. And he said, , you know, will have conversations with legit protesters, but not with the rioters ,. A lot of people picked on the latter part rioters. That means he's giving a green light to extreme violent forms of, you know, crackdown. What people didn't talk about was well, what did he mean? By he's ready or willing, or we will listen to protesters . N ow , if you then focus on that part of his speech , that might be an opening for any kind of opposition to regime or I don't want to use the term regime , opposition to the state . T hat is willing to have a dialogue for any kind of opening towards a transition towards a more, let's say . P oic al system that at least addresses the grievances of people , both economic and political . But. Do you see anyone in the opposition that's actually thinking along these lines? ,? Or is it just the hope that you express . W ell , I mean ,. It's hard to identify , but I'm sure there are such people both within the regime or they even in prison form members of the regime who think that way . In, the diaspora ,. It's a different situation , I think people in the diaspora have such a hatred of the regime for good reasons that they fall into the same trap as the . T, he, diaspora or the Iraqi D utc h , diaspora . W. Here, there were actually good ,. You know, , leftist people who felt that the Saddam Hussein was so horrible that it was okay to invite United States to come in and solve the problem . So. They would sort of ignore the Republican part history. , push history, push's ideas, , the new cons that were behind him and sort of in desperation, , look at Bush as a Messiah who's going to get rid of Saddam H uss ein . And the same thing , I think , of course, , the New a lot of I rania ns . A miss s what happened in I ra q , but they are unwittingly , I think falling into the same trap . somehow , of course, , one thing that they of different is with I ra q ,. The US was willing to actually put troops on the ground , basically the military occupation , even despite that whole place disintegrated . W ith I ran , I don't think anyone in their right senses is actually thinking of boots on the ground , which means what a complete disintegration of the state . So, if we take these arguments seriously , well, before I go there , I want to ask you , like, do you think there's a difference between what let's say, Netanyahu or Israel wants in relation to Iran? And what Washington wants . A nd does that matter to even think about that difference in relation to what's going on now? ? W ell I can't say there is a Washington I mean before there used to be National Security Council there to be a State Department. They would have their own memoirs of what would be desirable for that doesn't exist. Washington is basically Trump, so he can fluctuate from this. And that, but I think the Israelis have a very systematic policy , which is the way Iran the way Israel is going to be safe. For . F oree able future is if there is no ir , simple as that . W as anything happen, any Iran that there exists could possibly , even if without clerics, , could still have the capability of building a bomb ?. O kay, you, the only way you can get rid of that problem is to make sure there is no Iran What. Would you say to, let's say, if I wanted to counter your argument for for the sake of the argument, the argument precisely the argument that you just made it about that, let's say, Israel sees its own safety only when Iran is no longer there as a threat ,. Let's say, that's your argument, right? But does that mean disintegration of I ran ,? Does that mean Balkanizing Iran? Does that mean regime the term to use regime which I don't like ,? But let's say, regime chaos , regime breakdown or . C ould there be that this Inophobia that has been around and Israel has been pedalling for a long time has a functional use for I sra el ?. T hat. It allows Israel to do to Palestinians what it like and then use Iranopphobia to get the gaze of the socalled international community on focused on Iran rather than focused on the occupied territories , the ethnic cleansing , you know, , genocidal behavior , all that kind of stuff that Israel is doing . So. It did play a function . And. It also for nettanyahu personally . If, he actually gets rid of I ran . A nd becomes , let's say, , greater Israel idea becomes a dominant fact on the ground. And all the threats to Israel from their perspective is eliminated . T hen Nathantanya is out of office . Doesn't Nathantanya himself personally need some level of quote unquote threat that he can maintain his position and ,. You know, , continue his activities in the region , etca , and not get rid of everything completely. Then because the work is done . He has to leave office and face court situations, or whatever . So personally for him . A nda lso , for the state of I sra el , Iranphobia has that function . If you get rid of it , then people pay attention to what Israel is doing to P ales tine . There's no more I ran , no more , you , boyman there . So. Could it be that if this counter to your argument is true, , Israel might actually seek a severely weakened I ran . It weakened Iran. That is no longer capable of imposing any cost regionally on Israeli or American, you know, , Advventurism or militarism , but not a disintegrated I ran . W ell , remember with Saddam Hussein. Again, the Israel was the idea idea was if we got rid of Saddam H uss ein , Israel could live in peace, and things would be very different . T. He same thing can happen. They couldn't actually get rid of the regime in I ran , that could still always find some other existential threat . T. He obvious one would just say, there's an international anti anti Semimitic conspiracy in Israeli is a small state surrounded by non Israeli states who are always conspiring to overthrow it. And so on. So, there's always some enemy. You can conjure up. So. You think that it doesn ' t. S erious ly weaken the state of Israel's justatory discourses for whatever it is doing in the region , even if Iran is completely disintegrated . no好问还有个这。 T. He Israeli state, obviously has used Iran as a bogeyman ,. But even if the Bogeman wasn't there , the Israeli state is still going to be a pretty violent with the Palestinians and basically clobber anyone in the neighborhood, it feels it's a threat. So I don't think that's a primary thing. And of course, by let's say, if Iran disintegrates or is a weak state, by then, of course, Bbi is going to be in retirement ,. It could claim all these victories and so on ,. So it'll be a problem for some other prime minister . So. Here's another thing, then let's just move a little bit from the argument , but let's say what the consequences of this argument that you just made is . B ut, it seems now , I mean Haritz back in October 3 , a piece appeared in Haitz. That said, it was an investigative piece, and it showed that half of all the social media , advocacy for R eza, lavi , the crown prince of you know, , etc. Ceter is essentially based on Israeli planning, , work advocacy behind the scene bots , etc. Cea . and it was a push , deliberate push to bring him to the for as an alternative, you know, , leadership for Iran Now. If your argument is , T rue ,. Is it then fair to say that both United States and I sra el . M ay be presenting these alternative figures like R ezel , the only in this period to get Iran to fall into this disintegrating volcan ization , let's say, status . and then once that happens , they will let go of these figures themselves. ,. They have no more use for them because post disintegration I ran . B ut. They don't need to resolve I love you, or they don't need anyone else. Whoever else might be the alternative. They seek ,. Is that a fair reading of what the consequence of that thinking is ? Y eah , I mean , with Iraq. Remember, also Chaabi was also built up as the great liberator with and then , you know, , after localcal liberation , they discovered Chaabi was actually a fraud and a bank ambassador. And so on. So he was marginalized . The question is with Iran. Since the . 。 T. He monarchists do not have an organization that is going to take over if there is a disintegration ,. The only way is Haallavi is going to become Shah is actually if either Israel or United States invades the country and imposes the Shah on Iran. Previous monarchs have been restored , but to keep in mind like the bobons were restored in Paris, not by the F rench , but by actually army , R uss ia ns , P russ s , the B rit ish , various Italian states and the Austria E mpi re ,. They all occupied the country to bring back the bobo. Ns . 。 So , I mean , I don't see that happening for I ran . unless by some miracle , the revolutionary guards become royalists and invite the Shah back , I don't see that route to all . So I think there's Israeli is cynically using the P is as a way of basically destabilizing the regime . and they won't have any use for him once they get to the outcome, seek I ran . That's. What . A nd Pale, you should know this . raise up Pale, you should know not because of this kind of reasoning that we're just engaging here. , but also . I wonder what he's thinking when he saw how Trump treated Mario C orn o , whatever M acc hado , socalled, the Nobel P ea ce , the recent Nobel Peace for and how he dismissed her after he kidnapped Maduro and his wife and brought them to New Y ork . A nd gave the reign to Delsie R odr ig ue z , which was the vice president of Maduro notu M oar ddo . A nd that seems like the a possible outcome with Reo palle vy , even if . W hat. He wishes to happen happens . They would just like dismiss him at the end because he doesn't have like a social base of power . And. That's what Trump basically said about Maarddo when they asked him . He said, , oh, , she's a very respectful woman , but doesn't have much support social support , So your sense of like ,. How much do you think there is up? Has a support in I ran . What. Let's say, percentage. Do you estimate in I ran , He might have support . I mean , I don't see a social base , but there are obviously individuals who are so pissed off with this regime . So that they're nostalgic for the old regime , ignoring actually how unpopular the old regime was . So I mean , sometimes people do a complete summerrsa or a whole day , but it's very rare to find that . A ll right ,. So let me ask you about this. This invasion of Venezuela and the kidnapping of the president ,. Do you think ? P eople in the Middle East in general , in I ran , in P, ales tine, , etc. Cea , L, ebano n , should. How should they view this invasion , What kind of impact possibly would it have on policies of Israel and United States when it comes to Lebanon or Palestine or Iran in the post Venezuel? And . D ug engaged I. . L ook ing at the American sort of respectful press , that' seeing things or interpret things. In terms of . In dividual quirks are predictability of Trump. And what . E very thing is explained in terms of this or that immediate circumstance . A nd I mean , the last report survey about how Americans used to think that American foreign policy was based on morals now, less and less people . So. These things are interesting ,. But what I find interesting . Is, what is happening now intensely is actually basically . D est roy ing , undermining about 60 years of American social science . B eca use if you look at American social scientists , I mean , social scientists in the West general , but particularly American ones . T hey, have been consistently arguing for ever since I. Remember that these terms that were used before . I mpe rial ism , sphere of influence . T. He capitalism , if it existed was bad ,. It was in the 19 th century that ,. In fact, , all these things had changed ,. The world had changed , that there was no such thing as imperialism and even spheres of influence , old right to remember saying, ,. Oh, that's such such an 19 th century concept . B ut, if you actually look at what has happened in capitalism in the last 40 , 50 years . Y ou find that , in fact, , things have regressed back to the 19 th century. And what we' are seeing now is so openly back to 19 th century politics and not just internationally , but also internally ,. For instance . 嗯。 In. The the early 21 st century , the notion was , well , globalization, , free markets . These are completely destroyed. Whole imperialism gonebo with diplomacy . you know , everyone is happy if you have American companies having industries in C hina . every consumer gets benefits . It cheaper goods The Chinese get paid workers . E very one , it even things out . And. Therefore, , imperialism was no longer useful term to use . N ow, you find I think, actually, people in Washington are openly talking about. Imperialism was good, is good. , similar with capitalism . I remember, as a student, my professor telling me that , yes, , you know, Marx had some good criticisms of capitalism in the 19 th century, but these were all redundant. And you could cite a number of good cases, you could say, well, look, there's no longer basically poverty because the welfare state has, in fact, solved that problem. ,. There's no longer the problem of lack of housing beggars in the street ,. That's all been solved. The business cycle has been solved by the introduction of Keynesian economics . 对啊。 In know inequality is no longer an issue because now we have progressive taxation, and we are getting a democracy where people are basically are gone . The word class is no longer applicable because there's so much social mobility. And so on. So, these all actually had some a substance in the 60s . It was convincing argument in the 60s . F ast forward basically to late 19 th to late 2 0t h century , 21 st century. , you find inequality is actually worse than in the 19 th century. , you had basically shortage of housing return of beggars in the street. , I, remember, as a kid in Teran, you which beggars in the street was sort of liberating to be in London and not have beggars all over now, of course, London New York San Francisco is swamped with beggars. So what you find is some of the criticism of capitalism that was current in the 19 th century are again current and very much I, think not recognized necessarily , but they're very much pertin. And to the present day. A nd the late 2 0t h century , early 21 st century criticisms of capitalism and per ,. Those criticism are now become invalid . I. So what you find is the American social science theories of the last 60 years have become actually undermined by reality . A nother example, actually, you see is I used to teach American political politics institutions. At that time, the arguments was always, you know, the Constitution was so well written ,. So perceptive , the founding fathers were so foresighted that the vision of executive and so on , the power , the Congress had these were actually rail guards to save democracy , fast forward. Now, those rail guards of all basically floor to prove to be impotent. ,. You've had a basically one person saying to open it to the public ,. The only thing to stopping me doing anything I want is by myself . Y eah , yeah ,. My view for decades has been and I, you know, shared that in my with my students and all that when it came to like analyzing capitalism, , global capitalism was that this period . T hat is identified at least domestically in the discourses of the United States as a period where American dream had some kind of a substance to it with, you know, mobility , social class mobility that it existed to some extent, empirically backed by some data in the 60s , 70 s or 50 s. That was a period to me, that was actually like you could view it I think usefully as a historical bubble that would burst. And that historical bubble came into existence because of the conditions that are peculiar and particular to that time period of history , partly because at that time, in post - world War I , what was dominant the sector of capital that was dominant in the United States was the industrial sector and the monopoly sector. And from their perspective for production to continue before it became a global production , you know, the shift in the geography of production before . F orth at ,. They needed some kind of , let's say, , stability. And that stability meant some kind of an unwritten social contract with, you know, working class and labor to bring that stability to corporate productions in that preperiod of the globalization so-called. And then also because of the presence of Soviet Union, which had an ideological rivalry that the United, States or United States had a stake in at least presenting itself in some more reasonable fashion and part company with the depiction that Soviet Union had of United S tates . So. These kind of conditions allowed this several decades of a bubble to exist of creation of a middle class and an American dream . But. If anyone really seriously thought about the historical circumstances of the time , they should have thought about it in terms of this bubble that it's transitory . And if you remove these conditions postworl War Ii condition . A nd the rivalry and the corporate ,. You know, , sector that comes from the industrial capital Monpoly capital. that's gonna go If you shift away from this period , which we did . So in the 70 s. A nd beyond ,. You had the financialization of capitalism and financialization brought forth finance capital to the fore at the expense of maybe the other parts of sectors of capital ,. You know, , know , the real estate or I. Don't know the industrial And. The question became what kind of , if you want to still use Marxian analogies or analysis , what kind of superstructure most fits . 。 T. He logic of the late capitalist structure that has become financialized . then you would know that if you know anything , I think, you would know that the superstructure cannot even maintain the liberal Democratic positionality that it had taken or the positions that it had taken that it would have to erode . E ven that domain of politics in United S tates . So. That's exactly what we are seeing . So. We're seeing this kind of like neoliberal capitalism , which is . A technical term , you know, , I just use know , term like savage forms of capitalism , naked forms capitalism . Now with this naked form of capitalism , which is a naked form of class struggle , minus that historical period that created the middle class . and that bubble historically . That's not birth. It's been like almost half a century . you also end up with a naked form of imperialism . So. That's how I see the Venezuela affair . So. It's kind of like gangsterist capitalist 19 th century version of imperialism. When you know, , Trump can just go like kidnap a president, come and like threaten the others and says, ,. Okay, , if you don't do what I say, worse , you know, , faith befalls you than the president that it just kidnap . And. Here's what I want you to do . I'm gonna control your commerce . my terms will control your commerce. , thou cannot give , you know, oil to that country, or this country, cut off your relation . So this kind of gangster's capitalism is . s a 19 th century form of gangster imperialism . So. It seems to me everything is fitting in that kind of like analytical context . I don't know if you agree that every element of what I just said. Y eah , I would even continue with actually the concept of the state . What is the state , I. Think during the early 2 0t h century. And then after post Worldd War I , there was a convergence of basically interests that we LED eventually for theorist to say , well, ,. The state actually doesn't represent a class . It's sort of a above class ,. It's a balance of class . you see a lot of writings , including from Marxists, about how the state is much more complex than pure class representation . Fast forward. Now , you look the state who who is the government is basically not just executive committee of the ruling class of the most , basically despicable part of the middle class, where the president starts selling, basically bitcoins in the White House in order to fill his own pocket . 嗯。 So. If someone had said that in the 60s that the US president would be actually using the presidency to make money . people would say, , you know, , you must be sort of a mar for the 19 th century. , that's not possible . yet it is reality. Now. it' also accepted the culture has been also basically so corrupted that so many people seem to think it's fine for a president to make money while he is in the White H ouse . it's interesting that I wonder if you agree with me, even though we have this sort of gangster form of imperialism and its naked more naked capitalism , like real class, you know, , exploitation and struggles going on without any kind of hiding behind discourses . E ven though that's what we have ,. It might also indicate that , let's say, US imperialism is in decline . So. Just let's take the Venezuela affair that just happened . F ordec ades , at least for 24 years or 25 years , even longer , maybe 27 or eight years , United States attempted . To have regime change , quote in V ene zuela ,. There was a coup against Javez back in 202 002 and multiple other ways that they attempted to destabilize and do the regime change and all kinds of things . But. When the time came . F ew days ago, , Trump decided not to go for full scale regime change and abandon M acc hado . W hose ability to govern Venezuela was completely based on a complete regime change , because you can't just impose Maarddo on Venezuela and not do complete regime change. So. He goes and just kidnaps the president and his wife . V ice president comes in , threatens a vice president and makes claims about. Now we run Venezuela. And you know, the terms of commerce are imposed by us ,. That's what Ruo said. B ut no regime change , complete regime change. N ow ,. Could we read this situation, not just as gangster imperialism of 19 th century type , but also as a way of noticing that maybe empire is not as powerful as it was because if it was, it would do a complete regime, change. It's not constrained by domestic factors ,. Maybe the Magga people will break up if he did a complete regime change and really owned V ene zuela , that would be a Magga might not support him , some elements of the Magga. That's the domestic constraint . and also externally something like 8 million Venezuelans were armed by by Maduro. Just know last month and in anticipation of an invasion boots underground type thing by United S tates . So. If the United States want to do regime change, you have to like engage in guerrilla battles with 8 million strong boullivarian know militia groups . So. Those . T rains should tell us , I think that it seems like imperialism is strong and all that . And. It does whatever it wants for the moment . And. It is a threat to people . But. It is underlying it. There is this weakness . They can't do what they've always wanted to do . 。 A nd also just to back up my argument , if you look at the national security document of Trump that just came out in N ov ember ,. He talks about spheres of influence as if to say that the Americas is our sphere of influence , which is actually explicitly ,. He says that in the document and then other big powers can have their own sphere of influence . like China can do whatever it wants for time T aiwa n ,. That's their Europeans. And you know, Ukraine can do whatever you want., but Americas is ours . and now we're going to control all the resources and minerals. And you know, politically , etc., even that is a decline . So. We thought about United. States is a global empire , but the sphere of influence argument says, I'm going to limit myself to A merica s , but I'm going to be flexible if something really bad happens in other peoples and countries sphere of influence that really threatens my interest. , I may get involved . but now. My focus is here. Do. You see it this way that these discourses , documents , the Venezuela assault actually may be viewed as a sign of decline of the empire , even though it's gangsterism , yeah . I wouldn't say decline ,. But I think that it ' s. G oes back to the 19 th century. And the argument is part of the argument that Trump makes is a gap sphere of influence . You're not going to have major wars . O kay , You know that the Russians know where the border sphere. The C hines e. W ell , that was argued also in the 19 th century , but it ended up in World War I . B eca use sooner or later, , major powers will start trespassing on each other's toes ,. And that could easily lead to a major contradict ,. So the idea that peace through sphere of influence and strength has that false premise that somehow there is there' is going to be a stability in that . So I would agree , I mean ,. The Ukrainian crisis would not have happened if the US had not basically pushed its way into R uss ia . 对。 T. He L et ' s say Ukrainian issue is resolved. Somehow . There will be other areas where there will be actually rivalry between United States and Russia or United States and and C hina . Let's take this concretely and connect it to I ran . What, you just said , which is like . I want I wonder what you think what European positions might be , given two facts , one that . It seems from their perspective that Trump might be reducing aid to Ukraine. And we've noticed that Europeans want to continue the war with Russia and not let that go or let it fizzle away, like it seems like Trump sometimes is moving in that direction . So that one thing. And the other thing is like, after he did what he did to V ene zuela . He says I'm coming after Greenland want to take G reen land . So Europeans will have to think about that to these two things. , Po of takeover a Greenland by T rump . And. Also, from their perspective, , instances of Trump consistently that he wants to reduce aid to U krai ne . Do. You think those two facts might change the position of E uro pe , Vi might happen inside I ran . if Israel and United States engage in the second round of actual military attack against I ran . would they take a different position this time rather than seven months ago, because he said, , well, look, Trump is doing this thing with V ene zuela ,. Maybe . G reen land , he's abandoning U krai ne , maybe be take a more independent position from the United States? Or is the European states . So lacking in backbone that theyre kind of like vassal states , regardless of what the Trump going to do to their interests ,. They're going to continue following whatever they do , let's say, , in relation to Iran or Lebanon or P ales tine . 嗯。 W ell , in the past , E uro pe ,. This is before the U krai ne , Europe couldn't have an independent policy made in the Middle E ast , especially with I ran ,. Obviously, they didn't like Trump pulling out of the agreement. And so on. B ut when it came to the crux , they didn't have the economic banking structure to be able to be independent United S tates ,. So that's why they had to basically buckle under the United S tates . 嗯哼。 B ut I think because of U krai ne ,. The realization in Europe now is increasingly that they have to have an independent economic base separate from United S tates . So. They're going to have to move away from any dependence on the dollar, creative, much more a euro and have been the Britain support the euro system . So once that is done . until that is done , Europe is still going to be very weak . you know, ,. They might complain about U krai ne , but they're not going to be able to have an independent global policy . So. What do you think? Then because our time is short So going out of Europe And, let's just touch on China too . How important is . M ain tenance of an integrated state in Iran for China and preventing a disintegration of that state . I don't think the Chinese are going to . W orry that much . I t. It doesn't write interest . It doesn't affect their vital interests . So , I mean , cynically , from their point of view , the more United States gets involved and distracted elsewhere . It's better for them because they can basically lap up the whole P aci fi c. D oes n ' t the loss of Iran or disintegration, or balkanization of Iran not present a problem for the belt and road connectivity that they've invested so much all the way to, you know, Europe isn't Iran a large landscape that if you lose that , then the belt. And road gets stuck at a certain point ,. It can't continue . W ello w , I could move bit I'm talking about corridors like north and South corridors. So if Iran is gone , that's like jeopardizes. These corridors , doesn't it. ? A nd T, hey, could move the corridor further north or elsewhere at a higher expense or cost. That cost doesn't seem to be a problem . W hat about R uss ia ,. Let's just spend like maybe a minute. And then we are done with our time is same question, , how how much does Russia care that Iran remain an integrated United unified state and not get disinerrated an attack again. ? As a result of , you know, , another attack , round of attack , again, , I don't think again, ,. They see it as their right interest ,. They don't see it. F or Russia ever since 1 92 1 , their only interest in Iran has been basically that no major power should have bases there . I nfa ct , in 1 92 1. The agreement with Iran was Iran would have no basis. And Stalin was actually quite happy with that agreement. So even when Iran moved into basically the American sphere of influence with the S hah , as long as basis, American base were not in Iran Khrushchev, and others were quite happy basically to let Iran be ,. So if Iran disintegrates , as long as there are no American basic missiles there , it's no skin off their backs . I see. W ell , I want to thank you Ivanda Bramon for accepting my invitation and joining this program. , and I hope to invite you again. , talking about your forthcoming book, the In R evolution , I'd be interested in you posing lots of questions . F or you in terms of what your insights and thoughts have been writing that book on that episode of history? , modern history of I ran . T hank you for inviting me very good questions and I hope some of them make sense. , my answers. , I hope soie thank you so much. O kay , thanks a lot . C entering on peace on BTV is supported in part by the Burke's peaceace community .