Hi everyone, I'm Anthony.
Welcome to my channel
This is our first video of 2026.
Happy New Year to everyone!
Today I'd like to continue discussing a psychology topic.
It's a mother-daughter relationship.
recently
Several female friends
They told me about their complicated relationship with their mother.
The first woman was the eldest daughter in the family.
She grew up amidst her mother's scolding.
Because there are younger siblings in the family.
She was always the one being criticized and ignored.
The person who is asked to make concessions
She was filled with anger towards her mother.
I vowed to escape when I grew up.
But what made her most desperate was
She couldn't truly hate her mother.
Whenever her heart was filled with hatred
She would remember what her mother did after scolding her.
He quietly went to the kitchen again.
I cooked her favorite dish.
Or you might see your mother complaining about life.
While helping her wash her dirty clothes clean
Then she suddenly realized
The woman who assaulted her
Own
Also a victim of an unhappy family of origin and marriage.
She was also a girl who grew up in the suffering of male chauvinism.
Her anger instantly turned into immense guilt.
She would think, "Mom only has me left."
If even I hate her
She will be very pitiful.
The second woman's story is more complex.
Her mother almost never hit or scolded her.
They even showed meticulous care for her health.
Take care of her like a baby
Her father was a cold, selfish, and irresponsible man.
And a person who occasionally flies into a rage
The mother was the one who endured and accepted everything passively.
The victims who silently endured all of this
This is a mother who suffered and sacrificed.
The combination of a cold and authoritarian father
Logically speaking, her mother did not directly harm her.
She must feel very sorry for her mother.
It's right to hate your father.
Of course, she did indeed hate her father very much.
However, deep down she
Yet, a strange, inexplicable hatred often welled up within me.
This hatred was directed at the mother.
She felt a sense of pity for her mother's misfortune.
The feeling of being angry at their lack of ambition
And this anger
Sometimes it even surpasses anger towards one's father.
The two stories above
They are very representative of Chinese society.
Although the mothers in these two stories
It looks very different
but
The parties involved all had similar feelings of mental exhaustion.
This feeling is...
Although I am already an adult
Even far from home
They have their own work and life
But you still feel
It's like I have an invisible umbilical cord.
It is a direct spiritual connection with the mother.
You might have been in a good mood today.
Life is going smoothly
But as long as I receive a phone call from my mother
Hearing her sigh
Or the tone was slightly off.
Your entire state of mind will collapse instantly.
Your stomach will cramp.
Heart rate will increase
That familiar feeling of anxiety and guilt
It will overwhelm you like a tide.
And you will also find
This kind of internal friction can seep into many aspects of life.
When you try to love someone else
You find it difficult to build healthy relationships.
Even when you find happiness yourself
When you succeed
Deep in your heart
There might even be a hidden sense of guilt and remorse.
It feels like all of this is unstable and illegitimate.
At the same time, feelings for the mother
It's also a constant back and forth between love and hate.
Maybe a second ago you felt sorry for her.
But the next second I felt extremely suffocated.
This complex psychology of love and hate
It's both confusing and distressing.
So this video
Let's have a preliminary discussion on this topic.
I will upload this video.
Included in the list of "Psychology and Education"
If you have anything you'd like to discuss with me
And the topics of consultation
You can contact us.
My email appointment
First of all, we say
There are only four combinations of parent-child relationships.
Mother and son, mother and daughter, father and son and father and daughter
In these four relationships
The mother-daughter relationship is quite special.
Some might say: Every relationship is special.
However, we believe
Differentiation from self-awareness
From the perspective of establishing personality boundaries
Mother-daughter relationship
It is indeed easier to form the deepest bonds.
Because generally speaking
The relationship between fathers and children is relatively simple.
For example, father-daughter relationships are often quite polarized.
Either the daughter is the apple of her father's eye.
Either the father and daughter are completely estranged or hate each other.
The father-son relationship is usually even more distant.
Fathers often play the role of an enforcer of rules.
There is often not much emotional communication between fathers and sons.
In comparison
The mother-child relationship is more complicated.
We can easily see
The kind of "mama's boy" with a pathological Oedipus complex.
This symbiotic parent-child relationship
It's easy to tell.
Many times
On the surface
It was the mother who humbly served her picky son.
In fact, the son also enjoyed it.
But there is still a natural bottom line between mother and child.
Because of gender differences
No matter how close the bond is between mother and child
There has always been a physiological and social barrier.
This barrier
Invisible
This preserved the final boundary for the relationship.
Mother
It's hard to truly see your son as another version of yourself.
However, because the mother and daughter are of the same sex...
Therefore, there are no natural barriers between them.
This homogeneity
Making the blurring of boundaries effortless
This also makes control ubiquitous.
Many daughters unconsciously become mirrors of their mothers.
When the mother looked at her daughter
What she often sees is not an isolated individual.
Rather, it was yourself when you were young.
Or I think
The self that I became but never could be
This same-sex mirror relationship
This makes it easy for mothers to express their fears and regrets.
Even anger towards men
All of it was projected onto the daughter.
She would think
You cannot experience the pain I have gone through.
Or "things I didn't do"
You must do it for me.
It is precisely because of this subconscious illusion of "you and I not being able to distinguish"
This leads to control between mother and daughter
It's often not a simple and brutal command like a father's.
Instead, it's an impenetrable net.
certainly
It needs to be emphasized that
When we discuss father and mother here
It doesn't necessarily refer to your biological parents.
And firstly refers to
It is the one that assumes the corresponding psychological function
And people who have had a corresponding influence on your life
For some people
That mother might be your grandmother who raised you from childhood.
Aunt and Grandma
That father role
It could be an uncle, maternal uncle, or grandfather in real life.
The key here lies in the psychological role.
Rather than a blood-related title
So
This close connection between mother and daughter
How did it come about?
This connection is first established physically.
for example
Many women, even after reaching adulthood
The mother will still take the place of her daughter in sensing warmth and cold.
Worried that her daughter wasn't eating enough
Not eating well enough
Then I asked my daughter to eat more.
Or wear something thicker
Some people might say
Many mothers do this with their sons as well.
However
After all, there are gender differences between mothers and sons.
As my son enters puberty
The mother will consciously or subconsciously avoid suspicion.
For example, not going into the bathroom
No longer overly intimate
These physiological boundaries will force out psychological boundaries.
But for the daughter
This boundary does not exist.
The mother would think, "Anyway, we're all women."
Therefore, it is possible to comment more directly on the daughter's development.
Menstrual period, appearance, body shape, hairstyle, etc.
For example, this hairstyle doesn't suit you.
It makes my face look particularly big
etc.
Many mothers express their anxiety about themselves
Projected onto the daughter
for example
The mother herself felt fat
He would drastically restrict his daughter's diet.
When a mother hopes her daughter will study hard
He forbade his daughter from wearing makeup.
And when the mother is insecure about her appearance
She's also picky about her daughter's facial features.
Or perhaps they dislike their daughter for not knowing how to do makeup.
etc.
Many mothers and daughters share clothes.
Shared cosmetics
Even sleeping together
Such things
It would be almost impossible for this to happen between a mother and child.
Therefore we say
Physical identity in mother-daughter relationship
It is far stronger than mother and child.
Under such meticulous care
The person involved will have a feeling
My body doesn't just belong to myself.
Rather, it is property jointly owned by my mother and me.
My own feelings of being hot or cold, beautiful or ugly, are not for me to decide.
It must be approved by the mother.
This extreme physical intimacy
Sometimes it makes people feel very warm.
It felt like going back to the womb.
But at the same time
It also instilled a sense of unfathomable fear.
because
It's as if all your senses have been taken over by your mother.
So this extreme focus on the body
What problems might occur?
When we talk about a person having a self
We are referring to a set of bodies
Developed jointly by the brain and mind
It has continuity and stability
But at the same time
An experience system that maintains openness and flexibility.
First, we say that self-affirmation is inseparable from the body.
For example, your heartbeat, the sensations in your internal organs.
Secondly, the brain
The brain can process countless signals from the body
Transformed into nerve impulses
And psychological activities
Then these neural activities are given meaning.
for example
Your heart is beating faster.
The brain captures and processes this signal.
Then your consciousness explains:
I am excited or I am anxious
Only when these three are smoothly connected
Only then can you have an integrated sense of self.
A person who has experienced trauma
Heard a loud noise
His body may have stiffened.
The amygdala will be activated
But at the level of consciousness
I have absolutely no idea what happened.
Unable to effectively analyze and organize one's own feelings
At this point, we say that he has fallen into a state of dissociation.
His mental state and physical state are disconnected.
Freud believed
The first and most important self is the bodily self.
The earliest sense of self comes from bodily experience.
We are now talking about living my own life.
For example, I want to become an artist.
I don't want to be a doctor anymore.
Then I need to realize
Me, the doctor
The person I am who wants to be an artist is the same self.
This itself
It is a rather abstract spiritual pursuit.
However, this spiritual self
It was initially based on physical experience.
We imagine a person just coming into this world
She felt that the world was changing every second.
The surrounding temperature, humidity, and airflow are all changing.
And only her body
The rhythm of her heartbeat, the rise and fall of her breath
Her skin sensed the boundary between hot and cold.
It is present at every moment and continuously.
These bodily operating modes
Provided the earliest of our lives
It is also the most reliable sense of constancy.
for example
The baby noticed that every time she exerted her muscles...
The arm will definitely be able to be raised.
And this incident of raising an arm
It is completely related to the movement she makes.
The baby will then perceive that arm as belonging to them.
Conversely, if the baby makes this exertion movement
But his arm took a while to lift.
Then the baby might perceive this as belonging to the outside world.
Not belonging to myself
It is precisely because the body always...
Operating in a relatively stable manner
Our brains can then anchor themselves to the body.
Establish a sense of continuity of self
Only when my body tells me
The body I had yesterday was me
This body is still mine today.
Only then can we develop identity on a spiritual level.
That idea from yesterday is mine.
This idea of ​​mine is also...
Therefore, the stability of the body
It is the premise for the spiritual self to maintain its identity.
Therefore, when a mother is concerned about her daughter's body
To make meticulous judgments
When correcting and taking over
She is actually disrupting this constant.
If your body feels
It's not determined by your nervous system.
It was determined by the mother's mood.
For example, you feel hot
But your mother insists on dressing you; you don't feel hungry.
Your mother insists that you eat.
So, your body's natural...
Unquestionable continuity and stability
It was destroyed
Instead, it's a kind of "you in me"
The close connection of "you in me"
Over time
You will be confused
My own feelings
Is it out of one's true desire?
Or was it to calm the mother's anxiety?
certainly
Speaking of which
Some people might think this is all the mother's responsibility.
It's all because the mother is too controlling.
However
The father is the elephant in that room.
In Chinese families
The functional absence of fathers is almost the norm.
Many fathers are merely symbols who provide money.
Or an authority figure responsible for making the final decision.
However, in terms of emotional communication and participation in family chores...
They are invisible and evasive.
This absence led to an overload in the mother-daughter relationship.
When a woman
Not receiving emotional support from her husband in the marriage
Unable to get any relief from the heavy burden of childcare and housework.
Her inner grievances, anxieties, and loneliness
It did not disappear
These emotions were pent up there.
An outlet is urgently needed
When the husband is unreliable
The only lifeline the mother could grasp
It's one's own child.
Especially that daughter who is more caring and more like her own.
This greatly increased
The difficulty of a daughter becoming independent from her mother
Daughters typically have a sharper radar than sons.
Many sons
You can enjoy your mother's sacrifices with a clear conscience.
They took it for granted.
However, due to the similarity in body and gender
Daughters are naturally more likely to empathize with their mothers' pain.
In a typical pathological family structure
There is often a brutal, indifferent, or absent father.
In order to fight this common enemy
The mother will try to win over her daughter.
Prematurely forming a women's alliance
The mother would constantly confide in her daughter.
"Your dad's stopped taking care of the family again."
"How bullying your grandma is," etc.
In such an alliance
The daughter was forced to engage in emotional incest.
He became his mother's spiritual husband.
Because the father is emotionally dead.
The mother then expressed the lack of understanding she received in this marriage.
Companionship and support
He demanded everything from his daughter.
The daughter became the mother's only lifeline
She also became a mother
A dumping ground for all marital garbage
But what truly devastated the daughter was...
It is the duality of this relationship
Mothers sometimes treat their daughters as comrades-in-arms.
But sometimes it can be achieved through splitting and projection mechanisms.
Expressing one's hatred towards one's husband or mother-in-law
He vented his anger on his daughter.
She might suddenly point at her daughter and yell.
"You're just as selfish as your father."
The daughter will feel extremely confused at this moment.
I am your savior
How did you suddenly become my enemy?
This disorientation is the feeling of being swallowed up.
It's a feeling of being forced to act as a container for emotions.
Therefore, many daughters will experience this during puberty.
An anger that seemed incomprehensible to outsiders erupted.
This anger is actually a survival instinct.
She subconsciously felt
In the mother's meticulous care
It is actually poisonous.
If there is no anger and no resistance
She would be completely overwhelmed by her mother's suffering.
And this chain of tragedy
There is usually an even more ironic ending.
That's because the mother was confined to the family for a long time.
No other identity
No self
As a result, she became petty, resentful, and hysterical.
And the father who caused all of this
Because he is rarely home
Doing not do housework
irresponsible
And you don't have to face a mess.
On the contrary, in her daughter's eyes
He appeared so dashing, free, charming, and relaxed.
This led to the daughter
It has fallen into an extremely divided set of values.
She rationally sympathized with her mother.
But emotionally
She loathed her mother's humility and weakness.
She rationally knew that her father was irresponsible.
But subconsciously
She, however, longed for the unfettered privileges her father enjoyed.
This sense of division
It is a hidden wound in the hearts of many Chinese daughters.
In the next video
We will continue to explore
Several common coping strategies for daughters
And try to find
That true path to psychological differentiation
That's all for today's video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact me via email.
for example
You want to discuss a certain article or a certain passage with me.
A certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
or
You want to discuss your life experiences with me?
Confusion and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions regarding payment and communication methods
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you cannot pay
If you are unable to become a member, please contact me.
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will upload this video.
Placed in the list of psychology and education
I also recommend everyone to watch it.
Other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye.