Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
I want to start a new series today
I want to talk to you about Wang Yangming's philosophy of mind
actually
There have always been netizens who hope that I can discuss this topic
I also think this is very interesting
Worth digging deeper
But because this topic is quite complicated
I haven't started writing yet.
just
I recently read some literature on Song and Ming Neo-Confucianism.
I will take Chinese culture
Some thoughts about Chinese society
Connected in series
We know
Yangming's philosophy of mind is an important part of Song and Ming Neo-Confucianism
It can also be regarded as the pinnacle of Song and Ming Neo-Confucianism.
I am a person with a strong sense of reality
I'm following
It is not a Confucian thought that existed in history.
But his connection with contemporary China
Many times
History repeats itself
Through our discussion
I believe everyone will find
Although most Chinese people do not understand science
But it actually profoundly influenced and shaped Chinese history
And the Chinese way of thinking
Therefore, Neo-Confucianism and Xinxue as a spiritual structure
It's far from history.
so
Today's video
We will be the beginning of this series
Let’s talk about the nature of psychology
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
Why do we want to talk about Yangming's philosophy of mind?
This is primarily because it is
In China’s middle class
A popular discipline
In contemporary China
Why Wang Yangming's philosophy of mind is so popular
Not only because he himself had politicians in the Ming Dynasty,
The triple identity of a military strategist and a thinker
A successful person in Chinese culture
More importantly, his thoughts provide a paradigm for spiritual practice.
In various corporate training, Chinese studies courses,
Success Lectures, Body, Mind, Spirit, and Cultivation
and growth psychology books
Yangming's philosophy of mind is frequently cited and praised
Almost becoming the contemporary China
One of the pillars of spiritual and Chinese studies
Another person similar to Wang Yangming is Zeng Guofan
He is also a popular IP in Chinese success studies.
You may not know Wang Yangming
But you must have heard of To Conscience,
Unity of knowledge and action, nothing outside the mind, study of things to gain knowledge
These words were not all originally written by Wang Yangming
But he did give it a new meaning.
These words seem to emphasize the following idea:
The inner soul of an individual
Or conscience
Possessing supreme practical ability
and cognitive abilities
No need to seek outside
It is at this point
Yangming's philosophy of mind presents an extremely attractive
Narrative of Personal Independence and Self-Awakening
It does not depend on any specific knowledge or material conditions.
or interpersonal support
Instead, it encourages people to reflect on themselves,
Intuitive Insight and Spiritual Practice
Get rid of troubles
Achieving a stable and happy psychological state
Putting aside the words of Yangming's philosophy of mind
We say
This way of thinking is also quite common.
Sometimes, some Western psychology
Or in the form of philosophy
But it is ultimately a kind of oriental wisdom.
I believe everyone still remembers
We have done 4 video discussions
The Thinking Style of "The Courage to Be Disliked"
actually
This book has a distinct trace of Yangming's philosophy of mind.
We know
Yangming's philosophy of mind had a profound influence on Japan
Especially in the Meiji Restoration and its ideological circles before and after,
An important position in politics
Japan since the Edo period
Yangming School
By the mid-19th century
Yangming's philosophy of mind
It has become an important factor affecting the Japanese national spirit and
One of the important philosophies of political culture
Togo Heihachiro, Saigo Takamori, etc.
Major Figures of the Meiji Era
Both were deeply influenced by Wang Yangming
The Japanese government designated the founder of Yangming's philosophy of mind
Nakae Fujiki
Established as a moral role model and national hero
And from Yangming School
A series of
Serving Japanese nationalism
and the ideology of the imperial system
Entering the 20th century
Some Japanese scholars feel
Japan was affected by the wave of total Westernization
Determination from Eastern Philosophy
Unearthing theoretical resources to confront the West
Yangming's philosophy of mind is one of them.
Although it is impossible to determine
Did Ichiro Kishimi himself systematically study Yangming's philosophy of mind?
But he was unconsciously influenced by psychology.
It is entirely possible
Because he presents in the book
That extreme emphasis on personal courage
The kind of subjective determinism that borders on mysticism
They are very similar to Wang Yangming's thoughts
This can also explain
Why this book became a bestseller in China
Because its core
Maybe it was originally exported from China
If we say that Yangming's philosophy of mind is popular in China today
Because
He seems to be closer to the psychological growth of individuals
Then his deeper and more lasting influence on China
Still reflected in
In the communist revolutions of the 20th century
I personally think
The influence of Yangming's philosophy of mind
Maybe it's beyond Marxism itself.
Because we know
Mao Zedong himself highly respected Wang Yangming
Many of his thoughts are placed in the context of Yangming's philosophy of mind.
It is easy to understand.
Mao was influenced by Confucian classics in his early years
In his youth, he repeatedly read the "Chuan Xi Lu"
Before us
Mao Zedong's letter when he was young has been quoted many times
In the letter, he proposed
The key to changing China is to grasp the fundamental source
Start from the base
All minor issues can be resolved
This book sounds mysterious.
But it is entirely from the Neo-Confucianism of Song and Ming
The concept derived
For example
Mao wrote the poem "Six hundred million Chinese are all Shun and Yao" in 1958
This can almost be regarded as
A replica of Wang Yangming's "The streets are full of saints"
At Wang Yangming's
Everyone has a conscience
So everyone can be a saint.
In Mao
This view became
Everyone can make a revolution from the depths of their soul
From the Rectification Movement to the Cultural Revolution
Thought reform, which is very familiar to all Chinese people
Principles of criticism and self-criticism
Compared with the introspection and self-cultivation in Song and Ming Neo-Confucianism, sincerity and uprightness,
The effort of studying things to acquire knowledge
are highly interlinked
About this
We will discuss this in more detail in a future video.
Yangming's philosophy of mind
They were the scholar-official class of the Ming Dynasty.
A popular idea of ​​introspection and self-cultivation
But in the 20th century
It promoted the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution.
A series of radical political practices
This seems like a distortion.
In fact, there is a profound inevitability in Chinese history.
Discover connections between seemingly unrelated events
It's very interesting
But before discussing Wang Yangming's philosophical views
We will find
There are two contradictions and strange points about him
First, Yangming's philosophy of mind seems extreme.
Emphasis on self-awareness and human subjectivity
It is the foundation of the universe
From the outer nature to the inner heart
The so-called "there is nothing outside the mind,
"There is no reason outside the heart"
Not only in the heart
Even the "things" are in my heart
That's pretty extreme.
His concept of unity of knowledge and action
Emphasizes that a person does not need external laws and guidance
As long as you are sincere and just
Actions are natural and reasonable
This seems to acknowledge the inner
Have complete and sufficient cognitive abilities
and moral endowment
However
Such a theory seems quite self-aware.
But appeared in the Ming Dynasty
Such a highly authoritarian and repressive era
We say that although the Qin system was established by the Qin Dynasty
And promote it to the whole country
However, this system really reached its peak
But in the Ming Dynasty
Imperial power in the Ming Dynasty
From the beginning
It expanded in a barbaric and brutal way.
And throughout the entire dynasty
This is reflected in
Appalling literary inquisition and torture
The emperor established a
and is above the regular judicial system
Secret Police and Secret Court
For example, the Ming Dynasty
The imperial power established a household registration system that was far more stringent than that of the previous dynasty.
In contrast to the expansion of imperial power
Confucian scholars
More thorough self-domestication and self-deprecation
As we mentioned in our June 22nd issue last year
What is said in the Chinese success story
After Song Dynasty
More and more scholars and officials expressed their gratitude to the emperor.
Using the derogatory self-proclaimed title of "虮職小臣"
In the Ming Dynasty
The humble situation of the literati
Reaching new heights
They increasingly compare themselves to dogs, horses, bugs, and mice.
This reflects the increasingly low status of the literati in the Ming Dynasty.
This personality breakdown of the Ming Dynasty Confucian poets
This is reflected in their literary works.
for example
Tang Bohu of the Ming Dynasty was famous for his unrestrained talent.
But this is the kind of person
But he wrote this sentence:
I endure the dusk, the suffering, the joy, and the pain.
I endure hunger, cold, and bullying.
I said 16 ninjas in a row.
This reflects from the side
Ming Dynasty poets expressed their feelings about the ups and downs of officialdom.
A deep worry about the unpredictable fate
Including Wang Yangming himself
He was also tortured by the eunuch Liu Jin with a cane
and was almost secretly executed
In this era
Yangming's philosophy of mind
That kind of temperament that looks quite free and easy
It seems very strange and abrupt
Another contradictory point
This is reflected in the contrast between Wang Yangming's thoughts and his actions.
Wang Yangming advocated "the unity of all things"
that is
All things in the world share and are permeated with the spirit of benevolence
A sage is one who can consciously regard heaven, earth and all things as one.
Treat everyone in the world as your own family
To educate and support
At the time of death
Disciples asked Wang Yangming what his last words were
Wang Yangming said that his heart was upright
Nothing to say
But in reality
Wang Yangming was by no means a gentle Confucian scholar
A very experienced general.
The reason why he often wins
It is inseparable from his vicious means
The Ming History records
Wang Yangming's Process of Suppressing the Jiangxi Civil Rebellion
He first created a festive atmosphere
Surrender the rebel leader
Invite the leader to the banquet
Then execute these leaders one by one
Maybe someone will say
This was the routine operation of Confucian bureaucrats at that time.
but
What Wang Yangming did next was even more outrageous.
After executing these leaders
He immediately led his troops to attack the rebel camp.
Kill all the remaining people
The Ming History records that more than 2,000 people were killed.
Therefore, Wang Yangming
It leaves people with the impression of "many frauds"
Another incident was the suppression of the Yao ethnic group uprising in Guangxi
In fact, the entire Ming Dynasty
The ethnic groups in the southwest are constantly rebelling
This is directly related to the exploitation and corruption of the imperial court.
However, Wang Yangming's attitude was mainly to eliminate
In many of his orders and documents to his subordinates,
They repeatedly emphasized
When dealing with rebels, we must “eradicate all the roots and prevent any future troubles”
"Search and dig, and leave nothing behind"
That is to say, we must resolutely eliminate
Carry out a massacre to eradicate the roots
This includes the elderly and children.
Because many people rebelled with their families.
He reminded his subordinates in his orders
Despite defeating the main force of the rebels
But we must continue to eliminate
Don't think that dead ashes can't be rekindled
We must continue to mobilize and maintain high pressure
Wang Yangming also invented the ten-card method
Ten households form a group, and a group leader is appointed.
The sign indicates the population, place of origin, and occupation of each household.
If there is a family that harbors thieves
The other nine families will be punished together
If there is a population change
All must be reported to the government
Otherwise, you are a black household.
In Chinese history
Many thieves can't survive.
Ordinary people taking risks
The imperial court is nothing more than the biggest bandit
Zhu Yuanzhang and Zhang Xianzhong both have similar backgrounds
Although the thief did a lot of bad things
However, after Wang Yangming's army occupied Nanchang
His men continued to burn, kill and loot.
He only symbolically punished a dozen people.
So
There is not much difference between bandits and the imperial court
Wang Yangming's operation of eradicating the roots of the problem
Although it can quickly stop the rebellion
But it also made the civilian rebels
It is no longer possible to communicate with the official
Any trust and consensus
This is reflected in
The peasant uprising in the late Ming Dynasty
That unprecedented state of despair and mutual harm
For example, Li Zicheng and Zhang Xianzhong
Once the Ming Dynasty's royal family and officials are captured
The most brutal method
Torture them to death
Wang Yangming's Thoughts and Behaviors
It is easy for us to think of Zeng Guofan
This Confucian saint
In various family letters and diaries
Repeatedly mention self-cultivation and family harmony
View all actions as opportunities for moral cultivation
But this did not prevent him from being extremely cruel to civilians.
For example, the massacres in Anqing and Nanjing
And use fraudulent means to completely wipe out the surrenderers
Maybe someone will say
You can't use a person's actual behavior
To deny the rationality of his ideas
Thoughts and actions can be separated
Regarding this "principle of tolerance"
I agree
After all, many great thinkers in history
They all have controversial lives
No one's morality is perfect.
But the problem is
Wang Yangming's Thoughts and Behaviors
Not unrelated
Quite the opposite
His thoughts and actions are completely mutually supportive.
This is not to criticize Wang Yangming or Zeng Guofan.
Make moral judgments
What we are concerned about is Yangming's philosophy of mind
On the one hand, I advocate that this mind is bright
Nothing outside the mind
But from the perspective of the person involved's life
He didn't seem to give us a
Feeling of spiritual freedom
Instead, it became a place to maintain the imperial autocracy.
An efficient and ruthless killing machine
The secret of this contrast
It is hidden in his theory
To understand this mystery
We need to trace back to the source of his thought
That is, science itself
We will find
From Cheng-Zhu Neo-Confucianism to Yangming's School of Mind
This path of thought
In fact, it is a continuous involution.
A road that continues to close itself off
He is also the epitome of the entire Chinese culture
Next video
Let’s talk about the crisis of Chinese culture
How did physics come about?
And how to grasp his spiritual essence
That's all for today's video
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
I also recommend you to watch
My other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!