- One of the most famous spy series 
of all time actually gets it wrong,  
and that's the James Bond series. He's always 
attractive. He's always well-spoken. He's  
always an amazing driver, an amazing fighter, 
an amazing shot. He's great with the women,  
and somehow, he's able to operate all over 
the world by calling himself by his true name.
- The name's Bond, James Bond.
- James Bond. This is not what espionage is like. 
Real espionage is about people who blend in,  
people who aren't attractive, people who don't get 
a second look, people who are terrible with women,  
people who never drive a fancy car, people 
who never have to pull out their gun because  
they're so good at keeping a secret, 
they can get in and get out without  
ever even being noticed in the first 
place. My name is Andrew Bustamante,  
and I'm a former covert CIA intelligence 
officer and the founder of EverydaySpy.com.  
The public really doesn't realize that they 
are much closer to CIA spies than they think  
they are. International espionage requires a wide 
range of different types of look and appearance.  
There's a place for the very young and the very 
old. There's a place for the very fit and the  
very unfit. There's a place for tall people, 
short people. There's even room for people who  
have different religious beliefs that require 
them to wear different types of physical dress.  
But when it comes to the one type of person 
that has the most operational utility,  
you're looking for somebody who is brown but not 
too dark; somebody who is thin but not too thin;  
somebody who is middle-aged; because that's 
exactly the kind of person that disappears no  
matter where they go. Whether they're in Asia 
or Latin America, whether they're in Canada or  
Australia, they're overlooked. They're not the 
kind of person you remember bumping into when  
you're standing in line at a local coffee 
shop. And that's exactly the kind of "gray  
man" that CIA, MI6, and Mossad really look 
for when they develop a new high-performance  
field operative. A good covert operator is 
born with a certain series of skills. They  
are very good at thinking on their feet. They're 
creative, they're adaptable, they're resilient,  
and resourceful. They're also able to blend in and 
disappear. These are not people who want to be the  
center of attention. They're the wallflowers at 
your school prom. They're the kids who sit in  
the second-to-last row because if they sat in the 
last row of the school bus, they would be noticed.  
The people who turn into very good spies are the 
people who enjoy the comfort of anonymity. Now,  
when an intelligence service gets ahold of this 
person who values anonymity, then they have this  
rich, fertile soil to teach them a whole slew of 
skills, from hacking skills to tradecraft skills,  
to disguise, to foreign language, and they can put 
and invest these skills into somebody knowing that  
that person will never show off or brag about 
their skills. Instead, they're gonna use those  
advanced skills to make themselves even more 
invisible in front of everybody else. I often  
joke that I was the accidental recruit to CIA 
because I was not a great high school student.  
I was not a great college student. I came from 
the military, but I was not a good soldier. I was  
leaving the U.S. Air Force and trying to find 
a job that was the exact opposite of working  
for the Air Force because, as an Air Force 
officer, I was in command of nuclear missiles,  
knowing that if I turned my key, I would end human 
life in some place. So when the time came for me  
to leave the Air Force, I wanted to do something 
that was the polar opposite of nuclear missiles,  
so I found myself applying to the U.S. Peace 
Corps. And in the middle of my application to  
Peace Corps, I actually had a screen pop up on 
my computer that said, based on my answers to  
date in my application, I might qualify for other 
jobs in the national security sector. Would I be  
willing to put my application on pause? And like 
any other 27-year-old, when I heard that there  
might be an opportunity for me to do something 
else, I hit yes. And I said, "Yes, I am willing  
to put my application on hold for 72 hours to see 
what comes of this." And that's when I got a phone  
call one day later from a woman who didn't tell 
me her last name and came from an unlisted phone  
number with a 703 area code, which is Langley, 
Virginia. And she invited me to Washington, D.C.,  
to go through an application process that would 
vet me for a possible role in national security. I  
didn't know at the time that I was being vetted 
for CIA. I got a set of plane tickets in the  
mail. I had a rental car sent to me. I was only 
given enough information to make it another day:  
where my next hotel would be, where my next 
appointment would be. And that's kind of how I was  
carried along for the better part of 10 months as 
I went through test after test and interview after  
interview where I was applying for and escalating 
through the process of becoming a CIA operative.  
When you think about the process for applying 
and interviewing to CIA, you have to take  
every application you've ever made, from the 
military to a job, and throw it out the window  
because the average application and interview 
process for CIA takes about 18 months. In fact,  
if you're a very qualified, high-performing 
candidate, the best you can do is about nine  
months. My own application process took about 11 
months. And over the course of that time, you are  
exposed to more and more intrusive, personal, 
and high-stakes interview styles. Sometimes  
you're doing role plays, sometimes you're taking 
psychological batteries, sometimes you're doing  
group or panelist interviews where you're being 
peppered by a panel of people that you've never  
talked to before. And that's not counting all the 
things they're doing behind the scenes: pulling  
your digital footprint, looking at your police 
background, looking at your personal finances,  
looking and reviewing your health history, and 
your family history. The reason CIA uses this  
escalation of intrusive interview styles is for 
two reasons. One, they're looking to identify  
the specific soft skills that exist in the right 
candidate, but then simultaneously they're also  
looking for the person who's unwilling to share 
certain secrets about themselves. Where's the  
person that's too private to share secrets about 
the affair they had with their spouse? Or where's  
the person that's afraid to talk about the fact 
that they're broke? Where's the person who's  
unwilling to share a secret about cheating on an 
exam in college? Because if somebody's willing to  
keep one secret during the interview process, 
you know you can't really trust that person  
to become loyal to the organization when they 
have to collect secrets of different types that  
relate to national security and national security 
policy. CIA trains with a very specific model that  
really doesn't exist anywhere else. They call it 
a three-step model. First, you educate, then you  
exercise, and then you experience. They start with 
classroom education, and it really is that. It's  
just like being in a college setting. You have an 
instructor or two at the front of the classroom,  
and you have a room of anywhere from 30 to 100 
new recruits who learn a skill or a concept.  
Immediately after that class is over, you take a 
short break, and then you come back for a series  
of exercises or role plays. Maybe you role-play 
with another student; maybe you role-play with an  
instructor. Immediately following that exercise, 
everyone is kicked out into the real world to go  
actually exercise the skill that they learned and 
the skill that was demonstrated in the field. And  
what happens is, you will either fail or you 
will succeed during the process of applying  
that skill in the real world. And what's really 
powerful is, because you operate alone, you are  
the only one who knows if you succeeded or failed 
with that skill. So then, when you come back to  
the classroom the next day, you're carrying this 
knowledge in your own head. And it's up to you  
whether or not you seek additional help from a 
peer or from a teacher, whether you admit to your  
failure or whether you celebrate your success, 
which is part of the psychological game that must  
happen in order for you to develop both a loyalty 
to the organization but also a sense of confidence  
that you can operate single-handedly in the field. 
And CIA invests a great deal in your training  
specifically because they do not want to invest in 
your therapy. They look for people who are capable  
of doing both wonderful and terrible things and 
still be able to sleep at night because they know  
that, if for some reason you're overwhelmed, 
if for some reason you crack under pressure,  
if for some reason you break during an operation, 
there is much more at stake than just your life.  
When I actually started training with CIA, I 
started to have a series of self-discoveries.  
First, I started to discover that many of 
the things that I suspected my whole life,  
many of the things that caused me frustration and 
disappointment with society, were actually very  
viable things that CIA taught me to understand 
later on. It taught me to understand that there  
really isn't a sense of fairness or transparency 
or honesty that human beings carry from place to  
place. It doesn't exist in church. It doesn't 
exist in the professional workplace. It doesn't  
exist in the military. So for me, growing up, 
it was always very challenging whenever I saw  
hypocrisy or whenever I saw people go against 
their word or people not fulfill their promises,  
I never understood how it was acceptable. How is 
it that President Clinton could lie on the stand-
- I did not have sexual relations with that woman.
- And yet somehow still become a popular 
president? Even though everyone tries to say  
that there are standards of behavior, and there 
are codes of conduct, and there are social norms,  
in reality, all of those things are flexible. 
So, for example, ethics and morals are not the  
same thing. And that's something that the average 
person doesn't really think about or understand.  
Ethics are actually something that's defined 
by your profession. It's something that comes  
from outside, an external source. If you're an 
attorney, there's a code of ethics for attorneys.  
If you're a doctor, there's a code of ethics for 
doctors. If you're a teacher, there's a code of  
ethics for teachers. It's defined outside of 
you, whereas morals are actually something  
that's defined internal to you. It's something 
that you believe to be true, something that you  
believe to be important. Maybe that's something 
that was taught to you as a child, or something  
that you developed on your own. So, when you 
join CIA, they teach you that they, CIA, have  
their own code of ethics. And that code of ethics 
is really quite short because we are what's known  
as an organization of last resort. Meaning, if CIA 
gets a mission, it's because nobody else in the  
American government can do it. But morally, what 
it means is that you have to be flexible with your  
own personal morals. And a big part of what makes 
a CIA officer successful is what's known as moral  
flexibility, or the ability to believe one thing 
today as moral and something else tomorrow as  
equally just as moral. Because sometimes you have 
to hurt a bad guy to save a good guy. Sometimes,  
you have to steal from a criminal in order to 
get what you need to protect someone else. And  
you have to be able to sleep with yourself at 
night no matter what you do. One of the most  
interesting questions I get from people is, what 
is the one most important character trait to be  
a good spy? And I find this question to be really 
interesting because it's a shocking answer, in my  
opinion. The most important thing CIA or Mossad or 
MI6 looks for when they make a possible new spy is  
somebody who seeks validation from an external 
source. They're looking for somebody who is so  
loyal and so dependent on external validation 
that they will lie, steal, cheat, commit crimes,  
cross borders, change their name, do anything 
they have to do in order to get validation and  
approval from that one focused external source. 
And when CIA finds a person like that, they can  
train that person to become dependent on CIA. 
And then the loyalty of that individual becomes  
so focused on the institution that they don't need 
any other attention from anywhere else as long as  
they serve the one organization that validates 
and appreciates their work. So, any rational  
person would have to ask the question whether or 
not CIA's behavior is in line with the behavior  
of a cult. And the answer is yes, absolutely, 
because the loyalty that you have to have to  
the Central Intelligence Agency has to come above 
your loyalty to anything else. Higher than your  
loyalty to your parents, higher than your loyalty 
to your spouse, higher than the loyalty you have  
to your own children. Because when you sacrifice 
everything at the behest of a mission to keep  
people safe by stealing secrets, you can't let 
anything else come before that. And I was one of  
those people who absolutely welcomed an excuse 
to terminate all of my old military friends,  
to jump off of social media, to stop answering 
email, to change my phone number, to change my  
address, and not even tell my parents where I was 
moving to. What we say to ourselves at CIA is,  
"Mission first, family always," which is still 
mission first. And that is absolutely in line with  
the way that cults cultivate their own followers. 
They make people absolutely dependent on the cult,  
the organization, the foundation, the principle 
first. So, you have to consider the fact that,  
based on objective reality, yes, there are 
many behaviors at CIA that are in line with  
the behaviors of a religious cult. Use yourself as 
a test case here. If you're still listening to me  
talk right now, if you've heard me explain what 
it's like to go through the recruitment process,  
you've heard me talk about what it's like to 
be a spy, you've heard me talk about what the  
realities of spy life are like versus 
the movies, and you are still watching,  
that's a good sign that you actually have what 
it takes to consider being an actual undercover  
operative because thousands of other people have 
already stopped watching this video. Thousands  
of people saw the headline and never even clicked 
on the video. But the fact that you are not only  
still watching but excited to hear what comes next 
goes to show that you already have some of that  
psychological foundation, that moral flexibility, 
that resilience, that courage, that independence,  
that willingness to cut off all of your old life 
in order to pursue a new life. You have that risk  
tolerance already inside you. Whether you've 
ever known it or not, it's there. And that's  
what's so powerful about CIA. It doesn't care 
about the majority of people. It's there to  
preserve national security. And if you have that 
level of pragmatic thought, if you're willing to  
accept that there's a difference between people 
and institutions, then that shows that you are  
the kind of person that could potentially 
fit into the category of covert operatives.
- [Announcer] Wanna support the channel?  
Join the Big Think members community where 
you get access to videos early, ad-free.