Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today I want to talk to you about another psychology topic
Is it that we seek the approval of others?
Let’s take “The Courage to Be Disliked” as an example.
That
This is also the fourth video where we discuss this book.
Some netizens may ask
Why so many videos?
Talking about the same book?
This is really because
This book contains too many classics
and popular psychology views
It is more convenient to say it all at once
In previous videos
Our main criticism is the teleology advocated by this book.
It's actually very simple and crude.
Interested friends can review the previous content
Then this video
Let’s talk about this book
In terms of interpersonal relationships
Another very famous view
Separation of topics
This view actually makes more sense than teleology.
But it is also very misleading
It is worth talking about today
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
In fact, the title of this book
This is a good summary of his views on interpersonal relationships.
That is, freedom means having the courage to be hated.
This is reflected in the third chapter of the book.
Youth feel
I live under various constraints.
Like having to hang out with people you hate.
Tolerating a nasty boss
Meeting parents' expectations
For example, study hard
Must go to a certain university
Choose a certain job, etc.
Although I feel resentful when I obey my parents' wishes
But on the other hand, it has won the approval of parents
There will be a sense of security
So the young people sighed
Each of us
No one can escape the solid web of interpersonal relationships.
Always needing approval from others
The philosopher firmly said
Adlerian psychology denies seeking approval from others
There is no need to be recognized by others
Don't seek approval.
This sentence is very thorough.
Young people don't understand
The philosopher further explained
People seek recognition from others
Many times it is due to the influence of reward and punishment education.
However
We are not here to meet other people’s expectations.
And alive
Too much desire for recognition from others
Live according to other people's expectations
Living in someone else's life
certainly
Others don’t live to meet your expectations.
therefore
When others don't behave the way you want them to
Don't get angry either.
The philosopher asks the youth
If you don't get recognition from others and your parents
There is no confidence
So
Can such a life be called healthy?
Will you really be happy if you get recognition?
People who have achieved a certain social status
Can you experience happiness?
Young people ask
That
How should we treat interpersonal relationships?
So the author introduced
Another important concept from this book:
Separation of topics
The philosopher gave an example
There is a child who doesn't like to study
No classes, no homework
Forgot the textbook at school
If you are a parent
What should I do?
The young man said, of course, I urge my children to study.
Philosopher says Adlerian psychology should be considered first
Whose subject is this
Whether the child is studying or making friends with whom
This is all children's subject
It’s not the parents’ issue
Parents order their children to study
It's interfering in other people's issues.
This will inevitably lead to conflict
So we have to figure out whose business this is.
Then do not interfere
That's all
All interpersonal conflicts
It can be changed like this
The young man asked: What if I go against my parents' wishes?
As a result, parents strongly opposed
I hate you so much
Or even threaten to sever ties?
The philosopher said that is your parents' business
You don't need to care at all
No matter how sad the parents are
It has nothing to do with you.
That's what separation is all about.
You care too much about other people's eyes and comments
So I keep seeking recognition
You don’t know how to separate topics.
Treating someone else's problem as your own
Same reason
If your boss is unreasonable
Always suppress you and deny you
If you can separate the topics
Then you will realize
No matter how angry the other person is
It's not my subject.
This doesn't make sense.
This is a topic that the boss should handle himself.
I don't have to please the other party
There is no need to compromise
What I should do is to be honest with my life
Draw the line calmly
The philosopher also made a metaphor
That's everyone
They all have the desire and impulse to be recognized by others.
It's like a stone
Has a tendency to roll down the hill
However, the stone rolls down due to force or inertia.
It's just a law of nature.
It's not freedom
If people live to seek the approval of others
Then you are just a slave to desire
True freedom
It is to push yourself up from the bottom when you are falling down.
That is, fighting this instinct to seek approval from others.
To sum up
The price of freedom is being hated by others
So far, the part of this book about subject separation
That's about it.
Let's first briefly evaluate
In fact, the consciousness of separation and drawing boundaries
In reality, it makes a lot of sense.
China and Japan have similar reading of air
Or the culture of observing people's words and expressions
Individuals are taught to understand their parents' hard work.
Consider other people's feelings
Responsible for the collective
A large number of family, workplace and interpersonal conflicts in Chinese society
It's all about unclear boundaries.
In this context
The concept of separation of topics does make sense
It awakens individuals' awareness of self-responsibility and boundaries
Encourage individuals to stop taking on the emotions of others
But the problem is
The author seems to have made the separation of topics too simple.
It seems that as long as you realize subjectively
This is someone else's topic
You are free
However
Drawing boundaries is not just a subjective perception
It is a practice that comes with a series of risks and consequences.
Take the unreasonable boss as an example.
The philosopher said that we only need to draw a clear line
Realize that no matter how angry the other person is
It's not my subject.
This is a problem that the boss should deal with himself.
I don't have to please the other party
This seems to be the last time I lost my temper
It turns into a purely psychological problem
It seems that two people are equal subjects
I just need to realize
My boss is a person with mental problems
Is an NPD
I can easily draw the line
Reject the other party and get rid of internal friction
However, in reality
The boss's mood is his own business.
But I'll probably pay the price for it
For example, your boss is very angry one day.
Criticize you for not being proactive enough in working overtime
You told him it was just your subject.
It's none of my business
But does it work?
There is a serious confusion here.
The author believes
The reason why you are hurt by your boss's emotions
You care too much about what he thinks of you.
But in fact
Not many people
Do you really care about your boss's mental health?
What everyone cares about is
Does your boss's power affect your life?
in other words
If the boss doesn't have the actual ability to punish
Even if he has narcissistic personality disorder
It won't bother me.
It's his business to realize he's sick.
This doesn't improve my situation.
At most it's the first step
But philosophers seem to think
As long as you realize it's his business
He has his own limitations
Everything will be fine
This is actually
This is also a common problem in many popular psychology studies in China.
Whether he uses Christian words
Or use the quotations of Zeng Guofan and Wang Yangming
Or use Buddhist or other spiritual theories?
What they have in common
It is to describe the omnipotence of subjective will.
It seems like any distress caused by real problems
Whether it is economic dependence or personal dependence
Or the lack of support network
Depoliticization
and internalization pathways to explain
That is, to regard it as an individual psychological problem
Or the problem of negative emotions is solved
for example
It is clearly the anxiety caused by the real power structure.
Explain that I have a dependent personality
Boss abuses power
Because my subject is not separated
Long-term depression and loneliness
is interpreted as
You need more mindfulness or meditation practice
In short, you just need to master a way to calm your mood
Psychological techniques to resolve negative emotions
Learn to let go, see through, and separate
You can always stay calm and happy
It certainly makes sense to pay attention to your emotions.
However
We should be aware
This psychology has its limitations.
It is just a tool for us to pry reality
It cannot replace other specific knowledge,
Skills and common sense
For example
Facing oppression in the workplace
On the one hand, I have to realize that this structure is authoritarian.
on the other hand
We must also learn realistic strategies for survival under this structure.
Like uniting all the forces that can be united
Research loopholes in company rules and regulations to protect yourself
Learn to take advantage of conflicts between leaders
Reduce your own stress
This ability to fight, bargain and negotiate
More practical than simple emotion regulation
Speaking of which
Some friends may say
Interpersonal relationships involving real power structures
It is true that we cannot solve the problem simply by separating the topics.
But in an equal intimate relationship
For example, parent-child relationships, partner relationships
Or the relationship between good friends
It always makes sense to separate topics and draw clear boundaries.
indeed
Clear boundaries are certainly better than being interfered with and controlled.
For example, facing parental control,
Lover's emotional blackmail, friends' suppression and expectations
Learn to draw boundaries
It is indeed an important psychological ability.
However, this can only be regarded as a local repair mechanism.
It should not be the highest ideal of interpersonal communication.
and the ultimate principle
But in the author's opinion
Interpersonal relationships bring
Mainly interference and trouble
therefore
Learn to draw a clear line and not interfere with each other.
The most important ability
But in this case
Why do we still need interpersonal relationships?
The author is actually praising an atomized state.
Loneliness and lack of social support
Beautified as independence, freedom and sobriety
However
Just build a relationship
Between people
It is impossible not to change and be affected.
If you pursue absolute clarity of boundaries
Then you better not socialize.
Better to live alone
There are many young people in Japan
That's indeed how life is.
The author seems to think
Relationships are just what we need to survive.
A makeshift measure that had to be maintained
Relationships themselves tend to be harmful.
That is to say, once people have a relationship, they will have troubles.
certainly
The author also mentioned in the book
People also need to live in community
To serve the community
Able to contribute to others
To realize your own value
But the author also
Explains this community
It can be magnified to the entire country, society,
Even the entire earth and universe
This is also a kind of community
When we are rejected by the small community
We need to think of ourselves as belonging to a larger community.
How to enter the community
The philosopher said that someone must start first
Even if others don't cooperate with you
That has nothing to do with you.
It should start with you
Don't worry about whether others will cooperate.
Just make your own contribution
We can find
Although the author emphasizes the importance of being interested in others
Finding a sense of community
But we can't read
This kind of community
It is based on the interaction between two entities.
Yes
One can read a strong tendency to live in seclusion and detachment from the world.
I just need to make my own contribution.
I don't need the other party to care about me
I can feel that I am valuable
Everyone can be satisfied
Even if the real relationship makes me suffer
Such as parents, partners, friends, etc.
I can also look further ahead
Thinking of all mankind, the entire universe
Resonate with the sea of ​​stars
This looks huge.
However
If a relationship or a community
Does not involve mutual understanding, response and communication
Can that still be called a relationship?
Although Ichiro Kishimi used the term community
Such Western concepts
But his thoughts
But it didn't show at all
The true meaning of this concept
For example, in ancient Greece
community
Aristotle considered it the foundation of what it means to be human.
In his Politics he said:
Humans are born political animals
Human virtue can only be achieved in a city-state of equality and freedom.
To be complete and perfect
The politics here
Not the kind in the Chinese context.
The politics of managing people and competing for power
It refers to the ability of people to speak rationally
Between people
Only through rational consultation, communication and negotiation
To perfect your existence
An isolated individual is not a complete person.
Greek philosophy realized
Humans are social animals
That is, the need to gain recognition from others
This gregariousness is not just for survival
It is because people can only
Only then can we realize and develop our true potential and virtues
Animals also have some kind of social life
For example, there is also division of labor and cooperation within Ant.
There is even a hierarchy
But this social life of animals
Just to maintain the reproduction of the species
It has no biological
Spiritual significance
We also mentioned this in our video on March 9th.
Hegel believes
Human Subjectivity and Free Will
It is precisely based on
Recognition and interaction with others
Or in other words, only in this kind of non-independence
To achieve true independence
Of course, this is another big topic.
We will discuss this later
In short, Western philosophy
There has always been such a
Emphasis on the spirit of speech and interaction
The idea advocated by the hateful courage
It is more like Taoism with Western philosophy
and Zen thought
That's why his philosophy
In the eyes of many Chinese
There is a transcendent beauty
because
He is indeed in line with the concept of oriental aesthetics.
Like what he said
A sense of community with the universe and non-living things
It can almost be seen as Zhuangzi's
A replica of "Communicating Alone with the Spirits of Heaven and Earth"
He said separation of subjects
And the sense of alienation from interpersonal relationships
It also reveals everywhere that "the friendship between gentlemen is as light as water"
Taoist thought of "not condemning right and wrong and living in harmony with the world"
The kind of person who thinks that as long as you realize that you are not important
It can relieve the troubled thoughts
There are also traces of Zhuangzi's "On the Equality of All Things"
In terms of methodology
We say that the author believes that as long as you have the courage
The idea that you can transcend all trauma
From Adler or other Western psychology
Can't find any
But in Eastern philosophy
This idea is not uncommon at all.
For example, Zen Buddhism does not rely on words, but points directly to people's hearts.
Seeing the Nature and Becoming a Buddha
That is to emphasize the power of the present moment
What determines your life is you at this moment
Don't look back
The so-called "If you start to observe the true Prajna,
In an instant, all delusions are extinguished
If you know your own nature, you will attain Buddhahood as soon as you realize it."
In fact, we take what Ichiro Kishimi said about courage
Replaced with words like Buddha nature and Buddha heart
There is no sense of violation
Because they are all unanalyzable and untraceable.
Enlightenment in a single thought
As long as you get rid of your egocentric obsessions
Not affected by external circumstances
Have the courage to be hated
This is what the Diamond Sutra says.
“One should give rise to the mind without dwelling on anything”
In fact, even the philosopher's decisive judgment
And the look of sudden enlightenment of the young man
They all look like a Zen master talking to his disciples.
So
Let’s look at a person’s thoughts and ideas.
Don't look at the fashionable words he uses on the surface.
But to go deep into his conceptual system
To grasp
You will find many fashionable ideas
There's not much new actually.
But it already existed in the original culture.
That’s all for today’s video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Payment and communication methods are
Any questions
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!