I am Hakeem Oluseyi. I am an 
astrophysicist and author of the new book,  
Why Do We Exist? The Nine Realms of 
the Universe That Make You Possible.
Today on Big Think, we're going to discuss 
three of these realms. The quantum realm,  
the cosmological realm, and the multiverse realm. 
Chapter one, the strange world of quantum physics.  
Quantum physics is weird because it 
breaks every intuition of the physics  
that we normally experience in our regular 
world. The rules break, certainty breaks,  
things become probabilistic. Things come into 
existence, out of existence, objects pass through  
walls. It is strange. How should we think about 
quantum particles? They are not things. They are  
not things like the world around us. Quantum 
particles are the fundamental constituents of  
matter that come together to build up the world 
around us. So protons and neutrons are made up  
of fundamental quantum particles called quarks. 
Light is made up of fundamental quantum particles  
called photons. Electrons are a fundamental 
quantum particle. And so they come together  
in ways that cause new properties to emerge that 
give us a reality that is fundamentally different  
from the reality that created them. When we look 
at an artist's description of what an atom is,  
you typically see something that looks like a 
solar system in three dimensions, right? You have  
these lines of electrons orbiting a nucleus. But 
that is not what's happening, right? Planets that  
are orbiting the sun, they're basically falling 
around the sun. Just like an object falls here  
in Earth's atmosphere. It's the same process. 
Electrons are not falling around the nucleus of  
the atom. And the other thing is that they're 
not these little tiny spheres that we imagine.  
When you look at them at their fundamental basis, 
they have a particular property. And that is is  
that every electron is identical. For example, you 
can't tell one from the other. So what that tells  
me is that gives us a hint of what they are. So 
I like to make the analogy that they're kind of  
like musical notes. If I hear a musical note, 
a C, every C is a C. They're identical. But is  
the C a real thing? What the real thing is is the 
instrument or the voice that vibrated and created  
this vibration in the air. That vibration in the 
air is a real thing. But that perception of the  
sea is, you know, comes out of that vibration. And 
so, how do you create a vibration? You add energy  
to the string or to the instrument that you're 
blowing. Well, reality does the same thing. At the  
most foundational level, there is this concept of 
quantum fields. And these quantum fields permeate  
all of spaceime. And what we call a particle is 
energy injected into one of those quantum fields.  
We we call electrons exitations in the quantum 
electron field. And you know so in essence we  
are a symphony of musical notes in quantum fields. 
And what's really interesting is is that if you  
take that analogy to its extremes, right? If 
I have a musical instrument like a guitar that  
has a string that vibrates, if I don't pluck the 
string, the string isn't vibrating, right? Well,  
not right. It turns out that if I zoom in and look 
at that string really closely, you'll see that  
it's always vibrating. And in the same way, those 
quantum fields are always fluctuating. And that  
means that there's two types of vibrations. The 
ones where you insert energy and get a exitation  
that results in a note, but then it still vibrates 
at the same frequency, but really tiny. Those  
are what we call virtual particles in quantum 
mechanics. So they're both can exist on these  
quantum fields. So the thing about quantum fields 
that makes them really uncomfortable for me and I  
thought you know maybe this is just a mathematical 
analogy is that they don't have some source like a  
magnetic field you think oh here's a star here's 
a planet that's the source of the field. If you  
have an electric field, you think, "Oh, here's a 
an amount of electric charge. That electric charge  
creates that electric field." And you know, most 
of the fields that we're normally concerned with,  
electric, magnetic, gravity, they're associated 
with matter. These quantum fields have no source.  
They're not necessarily associated with matter in 
the same way as far as they generate, you know,  
some matter with some property generates the 
quantum field. they just seem to be there,  
just exist throughout all space, right? And so I 
thought for, you know, I'm like, man, this just  
can't be real. This just can't be. And then in 
2012, we discover the Higs field, this scalar  
field that permeates all space and imbuss mass to 
these quantum particles. And at that point, it's  
undeniable now. The quantum fields are real and 
they are you know the word field in physics means  
something really simple. It just means it has a 
value everywhere right? So if I have an electric  
field for example you know I can characterize 
it by the strength of the magnet and direction  
of that electric field everywhere in the room. 
And if I put a electric charge in the room, that  
charge is going to fill a force from that force 
field that we call an electric field. So it's a  
real thing. And when we do physics calculations 
like when we do quantum mechanics calculations or  
you know we say we use this word all the time, 
potential energy. Potential energy. What does  
that mean? Well, here's the thing. A field has 
different values at different locations in space.  
So potential energy is an energy that's associated 
with where you're located, right? That's which is  
different from kinetic energy that has to do with 
how you're moving, right? How fast you're moving,  
how much mass you have or collectively how 
much momentum you have. So quantum fields are  
appear to be actual real physical entities 
that's are just there and are everywhere.  
So, how do you think of these particles? Man, 
physicists have been asking that question since  
we discovered them. Sometimes they're particles, 
sometimes they're a wave, but when it comes down  
to it, humans ask these questions of what things 
are because we want to make a calculation to get  
something understood or accomplished. And based on 
what you're trying to accomplish, that's how you  
model it. So, sometimes you model it as a wave. 
Sometimes you model the the the atom as a electron  
in a nucleus connected by a spring. Sometimes you 
do think of it as a little sphere. Sometimes you  
think of it as spread out throughout an entire 
material. And each time you make a calculation,  
you get the right answer using the physics of 
quantum mechanics. So what is it really? We don't  
know. What is a wave function? The wave function 
is a mathematical description of a quantum entity.  
And it lives in this funky mathematical space, 
this funky vector space. And so at the basic  
level, we make measurements of things. Where is it 
located? How fast is is it moving? And this wave  
function, even though it does not have the same 
sort of tangible reality that we're accustomed to  
in classical mechanics, it gives us the right 
answers to the measurements that we make with  
incredibly high precision. So it is a incredibly 
valuable tool, but it it it has very little  
intuitive basis for a human that lives outside of 
the quantum realm. You know, the big problem with  
quantum mechanics and and translating it to others 
is that it's made up of, you know, it exists in  
this funky mathematics that will make your eyes 
glaze over and that is these these vector math,  
right? So a lot of us have encountered vectors. 
So the typical place that we do is you know you  
have your xy plane you have some arrow that is a 
vector and you can draw a line straight down to  
the x-axis and say oh here's where it intersects 
that axis at three and here's where it intersects  
the y ais and I can say that value is four for 
example so I could write that vector as 3x + 4 y  
all right well when we describe quantum entities 
we use this idea called a wave function And the  
wave function is a vector in very much the same 
way. But instead of having an x-axis and a yaxis,  
you have axes that are physical observables, 
locations, momenta, energies, these sorts of  
things. And what happens is is that when you when 
you write down that wave function, if you have 3x  
and 4 y, what you know is if I make a measurement 
of that system, I'm going to get either three for  
x or four for y. That's the only possibilities. 
But before I make a measurement, the state of  
the system is a combination of 3x and 4 y, right? 
So it's that vector sitting there at some angle.  
But now I make a measurement and boom, it's only 
on three or boom, it's only on four. But the  
analogy that I'm making is not accurate because my 
hand moved from the original vector space that's a  
combination of X and Y to being either all X or 
all Y, right? It it it rotated. That's not what  
happens appears to happen in the quantum world. 
It's like it disappears from being X and Y and  
becomes all X or it disappears from a combination 
of X and Y and becomes all Y. And what's really  
freaky about that is is that when you write down 
this wave function, let's say for example, five  
different locations. All right, every possible 
location is going to have a probability assigned  
to it. And so if it's five different locations, 
then you can imagine there's five axes. And so  
instead of just a 2D XY, imagine XYZ. And you have 
that vector sitting out somewhere in this space,  
right, of this XYZ space. And when I make a 
measurement, it pops to one of those axes. When  
I start making measurements of what is the value 
of of of of the of this thing when I measure it,  
I get this value of X, I get this value of Y, 
I get this value of Z. Each value is going to  
occur at the probability that that initial state 
predicts. But you can never know before you make  
the measurement which one you're going to get. 
Right? So let me make a similar analogy. When  
we model as physicists a block of iron, right, 
every atom is in a particular location, we call  
it a lattice. All right? And when you write down 
those lattice locations, they play an important  
role in calculations of what happens in reality. 
But if you were to actually look at those atoms,  
each little atom has a range of motion. That 
lattice location is going to be where it is  
located the least amount of time. It's not where 
it's at. It's where it's almost is never located.  
Here's another analogy. Suppose I have a pendulum, 
right? Suppose I have a series of pendulums and I  
want to say where each pendulum is. If I don't 
energize them by lifting the arm and letting it  
swing, the best thing to say is that wherever it 
hangs straight down in that equilibrium position,  
that's where it is, right? That's where that 
pendulum is located. But now if I lift that  
arm and let it swing, what you're going to see 
is for the range of motion of that pendulum,  
that's where it's going to be located the least 
amount of time, right? It's going to go here and  
slow down, and it's going to speed through the 
bottom and go back up there and slow down. So,  
it's going to be at its its extremes way more 
often than it is right here. But that location  
is what takes place. That's what shows up in the 
equations. So, are these quantum state vectors,  
these wave functions, the same thing, right? Is 
it that that vector is moving around that space  
at all times and what we call the state vector 
is just the average location where it is or  
way to characterize that vector even though it's 
constantly moving around. The problem is we have  
no idea. That's that's the problem. And not only 
that, you know, when I talked about a pendulum,  
we're talking about locations in space, angles, 
speeds, stuff that makes sense. The vectors  
in which these quantum wave functions live are 
this crazy thing called a Hilbert vector space,  
right? That has no physical manifestation in 
our regular world. So when we talk about how we  
describe the world with physics, typically it's an 
equation that says a physical thing changes with  
time based on the circumstances it's in. And those 
circumstances are either circumstances of energy  
or circumstances of force. for the Schroinger 
equation and the wave function. The thing that  
changes with time is some vector in some weird 
Hbert space, but from that you get out what you  
would actually measure if you made a measurement 
with a higher precision than any other science. Do  
quantum fields exist in spaceime or does spaceime 
emerge out of quantum fields? Spacetime is kind  
of the combination of every wear and every win 
in the universe. And you know the wares and the  
winds exist separately but they also exist in a 
combination of a phenomenon that we call spaceime  
where it's expressed by a mathematical equation 
that includes you know distance it includes time  
and it includes the curvature of spaceime as well 
as the change in the space-time coordinates with  
time. Right? We call that a metric. So 
it's essentially uh a way of how do you  
measure distances in the universe? You use this 
notion known as spacetime. Are our descriptions  
of reality are they really representative of the 
underlying reality or are they tools that give us  
what's going to happen in certain situations? If 
spacetime is a quantum field, then you should be  
able to quantize it. And physicists have been 
attempting to do that, come up with a quantum  
theory for spacetime. And we haven't been able 
to so far, especially in high energy regimes. Um,  
so you know, it's a situation where it's more like 
a superimposition, right? So all these quantum  
fields exist in the same space at the same time, 
right? So I if you think of a mesh, you know,  
one way I like to I like to imagine it is take a 
swimming pool and fill it up with green jell-o,  
but also fill it up with red jell-o and blue 
jell-o and yellow jell-o and purple jell-o all  
at the same time. Right? All of these different 
jellos are there filling the same space. Some  
of them interact with each other, some of them 
don't interact with each other, but they coexist  
throughout this space. And so you know you would 
think that they are existing in a spaceime right  
and you know when we get to the multiverse realm 
you'll see that spacetime exists in a spaceime  
right so reality is multi-layered and quantum 
fields appear to be fundamental spaceime appears  
to be fundamental some argue that spacetime is 
emergent I argue that spacetime is fundamental  
because again fields If they are fundamental, 
which seems to be the case, they require a  
geometry in which to exist. That geometry 
is space. Energy appears to be fundamental.  
Energy is that which creates change. For change to 
exist, there needs to be a before and an after. So  
time must exist. So space and time must exist 
for quantum fields and energy to exist. So,  
is it that they come into existence at, you know, 
simultaneously? It's kind of like super massive  
black holes in galaxies. We see that they are both 
necessary and they're both there and we can't tell  
which one came first, which is the chicken and 
which is the egg, right? It, you know, it's that  
kind of a problem. Can I explain entanglement to 
you? Well, thank you for your confidence in me.  
Quantum entanglement is a phenomenon that occurs 
in quantum mechanics when two or more entities  
behave as if they are a single entity and there 
are rules that these entities must follow if they  
are a single entity and the general statement 
is that they must be in complimentary states.  
This is one of those things where you know among 
physicists a lot of us are convinced oh there is  
no mystery here it's just a correlation and we see 
correlations around us all the time right and then  
others are like oh no no no no there's something 
really weird going on here I'm I'm a fence sinner  
in this argument right because it is a correlation 
um but the thing that makes it really weird and  
strange is that you can measure these correlations 
and So the analogy I normally give is you know  
take a pair of twins you know they they they are 
correlated in the sense that when one is sitting  
and the other the other is always standing and you 
know you separate them by light years take them to  
opposite sides of the universe and give each one a 
set of scribes that records every time each one is  
sitting and standing. What you will find is that 
you know years later when when the scribes from  
opposite sides of the universe come together and 
compare they note their notes they'll see that the  
correlation held and there was no way for them to 
actually have a signal go from one to the other in  
that instantaneous amount of time. But there's a 
big problem with that and that is is that it kind  
of rests on making measurements at around the 
same time. And so what is the same time? Well,  
that goes into the definition of what does it 
mean to to have now, right? And so we define  
now as a set of simultaneous events that are 
occurring, right? That is what defines now. All  
these things are happening at the same time. Well, 
Albert Einstein showed us that events that are  
simultaneous to one observer are not simultaneous 
to another observer if they're moving differently  
and they're if they're in a different state 
of gravitational energy, right? And then you  
know it was that was expanded to something called 
the Andromeda paradox that shows that this effect  
compounds over distance. So different observers 
looking at things in the great very distance,  
right? like say our two twins separated by some 
great distance. Whereas one may see events as  
occurring as simultaneous, the other may see 
those same two events separated by days or years  
or centuries if the distances are great enough. 
So observation breaks down at great distances.  
So yeah, we've measured quantum entanglement 
across, you know, distances that are great,  
like from the surface of Earth to a satellite, 
but we haven't done it across these super vast  
distances in which the universe actually exists. 
So, you know, it's weird. It's strange. What  
is it really the underlying reality? We haven't 
figured that out. Some folks convinced they have,  
and there's a big paradox there. I sit in the 
ignorance. I sit in the mystery, in the question,  
and in the curiosity. When I talk about the 
quantum realm, I'm sure your mind goes to,  
you know, some YouTube video you've watched 
or some movie you've watched. You know,  
Ant-Man going into the quantum realm, right? When 
we hear new information, we try to understand it  
through analogies or relating it to things that 
we already know. But there's nothing that we  
already know that is like the quantum realm. So as 
your brain tries to make sense of it, it actually  
confuses you more. You kind of have to empty your 
brain, throw it away, and build this whole new  
reality from the ground up in this strange math, 
right? And so that makes it opaque to most of us.  
Even us physicists, when we get into the math, 
again, we live in a world that makes sense to  
us. The quantum realm does not. So, you're not 
alone if you have no idea what this is about.
Chapter 2, the cosmological realm.
When you think of the cosmological realm, think of 
dynamic spacetime. And those dynamics manifest in  
two ways. Spacetime curvature and space-time 
motion, primarily stretching and waving.  
So the realm of cosmology is the realm of dynamic 
spaceime. When I was a graduate student, my PhD  
adviser turns to me. He goes, "Hey, the solar 
radiance is like well something 10 to the 30s  
per second or some some number 10 the 30th." And I 
go, "I don't know." And he looks at me and he go,  
"What? You call yourself a solar physicist and you 
don't know the solar radiance?" Right? this look  
of almost disgust. And I was like, yo, bro, you 
need to step up your game. You need to get these  
numbers embedded in your head. And so I started 
to understand reality at the astronomical scale in  
terms of these numbers. I came to understand like, 
hey, you know, the the moon is 1% the Earth's  
mass, but one quarter the Earth's diameter. Mars, 
it's 10% the Earth's mass, but 1/ half the Earth's  
diameter. The sun is a hundred times the earth's 
diameter. And as I had these numbers in my mind,  
you know, I was going about my business of being 
a student. And I taught observational astronomy  
at the observatory. And one night I was leaving 
the observatory very late at night, you know,  
4:00 a.m. or so. And it was a clear night. And I 
looked at the moon and I contemplated on the fact  
that the moon was one quarter the earth's size and 
the fact that it is around just over 60 earth radi  
away from us. Right? So if you ask a person if 
this the size of the earth you know how big is  
the moon and how far away it is. You know you get 
something like this right? But it's really 60 some  
odd earth radi away. So 60 times that distance 
away is on the other side of the wall over here,  
right? You know, and so when I realized that the 
thing was 60 some odd radi away from me and I saw  
how big it was in the sky, I could suddenly 
see the sky in 3D. Also in the night sky was  
Jupiter and I knew it was on the opposite side 
of the sun and it's 10 times bigger than Earth.  
and seeing how big it appeared in my night 
sky. Knowing these distances, right, you know,  
things look smaller the farther away they are. 
Knowing these distances, I was like, "Holy,
how massively large Jupiter is, right?" But 
then one night, I had this buddy who he had  
not done well in school. Let's just say 
it that way. He wasn't an academic dude,  
but he had crazy curiosity. And one day 
he invites me up to his father's home in  
the coastal mountains of California outside 
the town of Elk. And he's like, "Hey brother,  
bring a couple of telescopes." And so I bring up 
two telescopes. And so I'm there doing my thing,  
kind of ignoring him. And he says to me, he goes, 
"Hey bro, what's that fuzzy thing up there in the  
sky?" And I'm like, "What?" He's like, "Yeah, man. 
I can see it with even without the telescope." And  
I'm like, "Go get out of here." Right. in, you 
know, but more profane in real time. And he's  
like, "Yeah, man." And he had the sincerity in 
his voice. I'm like, you know, the only naked  
eye blob I know is the Andromeda galaxy. And 
where we're looking, the time of year it is,  
it ain't Andromeda time. What is this dude talking 
about? So, I'm thinking he's making some kind of  
error. So, I go and look through his eyepiece 
and sure enough, there it is. And I'm like,  
he said he could see it without the naked eye. 
So, I pull away and look along the barrel of the  
telescope to the sky and there it is. And then it 
struck me. I had always known that the Andromeda  
galaxy could be seen with the naked eye in a dark 
enough place, but I knew it had to be really dark  
and I hadn't really tried it. You know, I hadn't 
had the opportunity. But there it was. Now,  
you can only see the bulge of it, but in 
the night sky, right, it's bigger than the  
full moon by several times, right? And it's 3° 
across, right? The moon is like half a degree.  
That's six times bigger. And that thing is 2 
1/2 million lighty years away. So now again,  
knowing that I'm looking at something that's 2 and 
a half billion light years away. It's looking that  
big in my night sky. My brain shattered because I 
could feel how big that thing was. And it was just  
impossibly huge. And that's the crazy thing about 
the cosmological realm, right? An atom is 10us 10  
m across. A nucleus 10 theus5. That sounds crazy 
tiny and it is. But just our galaxy, you know, 10  
theus 15 going in smallness, 10 to the 21 going in 
bigness. And I'm just like, bro, man, where where  
am I? What is this cruel joke reality has played 
on me? You want me to wrap my my mind around this  
bigness? Whoa, man. Wow. Albert Einstein gets 
a lot of the credit for this idea of spacetime,  
but it originates with Minowski. And the idea 
here is that there is a relationship between  
space and time. But it's more fundamental than I 
think that we get in our everyday lives. We have  
an understanding for we know that you know there's 
relationship between space and time. I can say you  
know I used to live on the space coast or Orlando 
is this particular distance away or I can say it's  
an hour away right? I could say that space or 
time and we do the same thing using light. Oh,  
you know that the the sun is 93 million miles away 
or it's 8 point, you know, four or something light  
seconds away. So, space and time, you know, it's 
intuitive that there is a relationship between  
it. If I want to describe a a line, the length of 
a line vector in a 2D xy space, right? I'll say,  
you know, the Pythagorean theorem, a^2 + b^2= 
c^2, right? We're familiar with that. When you add  
that time coordinate, it's not a plus anymore. It 
turns into a minus. So space and time kind of tug  
at each other, right? And the consequence of that 
is that we end up with this idea that you have a  
speed through space and a speed through time at 
all times. And just like you have a^2 plus b^2=  
c^2 in the pythagorean theorem, you have that your 
speed through space 2 plus your speed through time  
squared equals the speed of light squared. And 
so you're never at rest in time, are you? Unless  
you're, you know, because you can never move at 
the speed of light. Um, and you you're, you know,  
so what what does this say to us? This says to 
us that at all times everything in the universe  
is moving through spaceime because everything is 
moving through time and relative to each other,  
we have speeds, right? If if there's only one 
thing in the universe, what does speed even  
mean? But if there are two things now you have 
and they're in motion you have a speed relative  
to something else. What follows from that is that 
your speed through space and your speed through  
time will be different for each one. So each one 
by having a different speed through space has a  
different speed through time necessarily and that 
completely breaks intuition for us humans. Time  
seems to be something that just ticks along at a 
regular rate. Right? The earth spins on its axis  
once a day, goes around the sun on its orbit 
once a year, right? That's the same. Our year  
is a year. A second is a second. A minute is a 
minute. Actually, not. And it's all because of  
this fourdimensional spaceime where space and 
time tug against each other. You are moving  
through spaceime at the speed of light. You're 
not moving through space at the speed of light.  
You may be moving through time at near the speed 
of light, which is the maximum speed. But at all  
times, you and everything else in the universe are 
moving through spaceime at the speed of light. Not  
through space at the speed of light, not through 
time at the speed of light, but through spaceime.  
The combination, it's kind of like Galileo 
discovered. An object at restoring motion remains  
at restoring motion less acted upon by an outside 
force. Right? Why is that? Well, at the same way,  
your emotion through spaceime is a constant. It 
is is unchanging, but it kind of shifts between  
space and time. So, for example, you know, if 
you're out there in space all alone, you're going  
to be moving through time at the maximum speed. 
But suppose you come next to a gravitating body  
like a planet or a star. Your direction through 
motion will change. So some physicists like to  
say gravity turns speed through time into speed 
through space, right? That's why you accelerate  
near gravitational body. So you know it's it's 
difficult to wrap your mind around. It's super  
easy and it's clear as day in the mathematics of 
relativity. But you know when you are told this  
and you discover this for the first time, you know 
it it it is a brain breaker. But it also solves  
mysteries. Like you might wonder why is the speed 
of light considered a speed limit in the universe?  
Well, think about it this way. If I'm at rest 
relative to you, right? Relative to each other,  
we are not moving through space. So together we 
are moving through time at the speed of light.  
Now suppose I start moving rapidly through space. 
That means I must now move more slowly through  
time. So in order to move faster through space, I 
have to borrow. I have to subtract from my speed  
through time. Well, how much speed through time 
did I start off with? The speed of light amount.  
All right. So that's that's the maximum amount I 
can borrow. If I bring my speed through space up  
and my speed through time down, eventually 
I get all of that speed through time and  
I'm moving at the speed of light through space. 
Now, of course, nothing with mass can do that.  
And at the same time, anything that doesn't have 
mass like gravitational waves, light, they must  
do that. But here's the thing that's really weird. 
If you look at light with that analogy, right, you  
have this phenomenon that, you know, the faster 
things go, the more time gets dilated, right?  
So the less it travels through time. And not only 
that, distances shrink. So the faster you go, the  
shorter distances become. So you would think that 
light does not experience neither space nor time.  
But that's not true. That is not the case. Right? 
Why is that? The reason why is when I say that I  
move through time at the speed of light. If we're 
at rest relative to each other together, we move  
through time at the speed of light, I just invoke 
the concept known as the rest frame. Well, guess  
what? Light does not have a rest frame. So, you 
can't make those definitions. It's nonsensical.  
You can't say light doesn't experience space or 
time. It doesn't have a rest frame. So, you know,  
this the consequences of moving through 
spaceime at the speed of light and living  
in a fourdimensional spaceime is definitely a 
brain breaker, but you got to be careful with  
the analogies and and how you think about it 
because there are subtleties all along the way  
that could lead you to incorrect conclusions. 
How is the universe both curved and flat?  
So by flat we mean no curvature. Well, you 
know, it's kind of like saying the Earth is  
both a sphere and not a sphere, right? Or, you 
know, for my pedantic nerds out there, an oblate  
spheroid has somewhat egg shape. But here here's 
how that works. You can think of the universe  
and space-time curvature on two scales. There's a 
large scale universe and then there are there is  
the local universe. So yeah, next to planets like 
the Earth, spacetime is curved. Next to the sun,  
spaceime is curved. Next to the galaxy, spacetime 
is curved. Right? So I like to think, for example,  
you know, if you think about our galaxy, we have 
this giant halo that extends like, you know, 10  
times the Milky Way's radius around it, right? So 
if you think about the the dip in the sheet or the  
funnel model, that big giant halo of dark matter 
contains most of the mass. So, it's going to  
create this deep depression, right? Then you got 
the concentration of the galactic matter there.  
There's going to be another deep depression. And 
then right in the center, because density matters,  
you have our super massive black hole. It's like, 
right? And so, it's like, you know, it's almost  
like you have a drill drilling into spaceime 
because it's all orbiting, right? It's all  
spinning and orbiting. So, locally, there's a lot 
of curvature and a lot of character to the nature  
of spaceime. But you know, just like the earth, it 
has mountains, it has sink holes, it has gullies,  
it has valleys. There's a lot of character to the 
surface of Earth. But if I step back and look at  
Earth, it looks like a smooth blue and white 
ball, right? And the universe is the same way.  
Even though there's all of this local character, 
if you step out and look back far enough, it  
looks really smooth. There's a large scale global 
curvatureless spacetime and there's local highly  
curved spaceime and curvature of various sizes 
and intensities based on mass and density and  
energy and pressure. So this overall space-time 
behavior takes place in a in a universe that is  
not static. The universe is expanding. So when you 
start when you start talking about the universe  
at the cosmological scale. You have to take into 
account curvature of spacetime and the expansion  
of spacetime and that again completely breaks our 
intuition. The only manifestation of space-time  
curvature that we experience on earth we call 
that gravity and you know we just characterize it  
with a single number. But in spacetime things are 
very different. Space is flowing. Space is waving.  
Space is stretching. And there is no analogy 
here in our everyday existence that prepares  
us for that. And that's why it takes a long time 
to understand cosmology. Once you get it, it seems  
kind of simple. But getting your mind around 
this stuff that is so foreign to us, you know,  
out there at the cosmological scales and then 
you take into effect that there are gravitational  
effects of phenomena that remains hidden. It it 
really breaks your brain. Quite often what we do  
when we want to create an analogy for uh learners 
to understand how space-time expansion works. We  
take a sphere and we put lines of latitude and 
longitude on it and we place galaxies at the  
intersections of those lines of latitude and 
longitude and then we expand the sphere. All  
right? So the the the line segments between 
the intersections of longitude and latitude  
they get longer but the galaxies themselves still 
remain at those intersections. Right? So space has  
expanded but they haven't moved in that particular 
coordinate system. And that analogy works really  
well because you know the universe is really big. 
So most of the universe is far away from us. So  
most of the universe is expanding really fast. 
So that means that most of the motion of galaxies  
that we observe is not due to their motion within 
that coordinate grid, but really it's it's due to  
the expansion of the grid itself. Right? So we 
have an idea that we call expansion drag. It's  
almost like you know the faster it's expanding the 
the the more it slows down its intrinsic motion.  
in in comparison to that space-time motion. So, an 
example I like to give is tadpoles in a river. So,  
if I'm standing at the riverbank and I'm looking 
from the edge of the river to the center of the  
river, what you're going to find is that the 
water near the river's edge is interacting with  
the bank. And that makes it move more slowly than 
the water out at the center. So, if I'm looking at  
some tadpoles right here, I see them moving around 
relative to the water, right? They're moving back  
and forth, going back and forth, right? The water, 
you know, is kind of like this background in which  
they exist. But if I look at tadpoles toward 
the center of the stream, they're carried away  
down the stream. Of course, they're flipping their 
little tails and they're moving around relative to  
some, you know, local coordinate system. But from 
my perspective, standing on the bank far away,  
the stream speed is what characterizes their 
motion. And I would see them as basically at  
rest relative to the parcel of water that holds 
them, even though they're flapping around in  
there. Well, spacetime acts the exact same way. 
Galaxies are moving, right? They're in orbits  
around each other. They're whizzing around, but 
because most of them are farther away, it is that  
motion through spaceime that characterizes that 
dominates their motion. And so, you know, it's  
like they're nailed down to that location in space 
and it's just being carried away by this elevator,  
right? Or this or this conveyor belt. So, in 
this expansion scenario, if you go far enough  
in the distance, you get objects that are moving 
away from you faster than the speed of light and  
even faster, right? It breaks our intuition 
that nothing can move through spaceime faster  
than the speed of light. But stretching is kind 
of unlimited in terms of how fast it can make  
things move away from you. But locally, nothing is 
moving faster than the speed of light. You know,  
when we talk about the universe as a whole, how 
does it break our notion of a universal present,  
right? This is the age of the universe. This is 
what the universe is right now. Well, man, it it  
it breaks it in multiple ways, right? So the first 
way is we know that the rate at which time travels  
for every entity in the universe depends on its 
energy situation right how deep of a gravitational  
well is it in right gravity slows time so that 
means when you're in an airplane or in orbit  
around earth that your clock will move faster than 
someone here on the ground and also speed matters.  
The faster you move relative to something else, 
the slower your clock goes relative to that other  
entity. So if you look around the universe, 
the gravitational landscape varies. You know,  
there are these vast voids between galaxies where 
there's very little matter. Then you have the the  
so-called whim, the this filamentary structure 
where dark matter and matter come together to  
form what we call the cosmic web. Well, in the 
cosmic web, time is going to travel more slowly  
than it does inside these voids. So, how do we 
even have a notion of the age of the universe  
or now if everywhere has its own clock? Well, it 
turns out that there are these two things that  
we can use. One is the evolution of stuff in the 
universe. Stars are cooking up elements into other  
elements. So, you know, complexity is arising, 
right? So you could get different minerals  
um after some time that you couldn't get before 
that time because they had to be cooked up in a  
particular sequence to get to to to exist. Right? 
And the same way there is light that fills the  
universe that has a property of averaging out 
things in the universe. It's called the cosmic  
microwave background radiation. And so there's a 
property that light has, right? Light is strongly  
coupled to spacetime. So as spaceime expands, 
light that is traveling through that spaceime,  
it gets its wavelength stretched out by the same 
amount that space expanded while the light was  
traveling through it. And so all of the CMBB, even 
if along different directions, lines of sight, the  
the the rate of expansion is slightly different, 
the cosmic microwave background radiation kind of  
averages out over these nuisance parameters. And 
so it can serve as a convenient clock. Emergence  
can serve as a convenient clock. So even though 
the fundamental reality is there is no universal  
now, we do have these convenient clocks that give 
us a bearing, give us a fidial reference for us to  
speak in this way. Given this lack of a universal 
noun, cosmologists can still talk about the  
universe at any given time slice because of the 
cosmological principle which says the universe is  
homogeneous and isotropic. That means it's made of 
the same stuff everywhere and there are no special  
locations or orientations or directions. Right? 
The thing about that is is that you know that  
homogeneity is homogeneity in space. Everywhere is 
kind of the same even though it's not. Right? You  
know the being in the sun is not the same thing 
as being on Earth or being in intergalactic space,  
right? But over large enough averages, we can 
say it's all made of the same stuff. But every  
time is unique, right? There is this pattern of 
emergence that occurs, right? Forces freeze out  
in the universe. You go from a universe of 
nothing but plasma to a universe of nothing  
but gas. And then you get stars and galaxies 
and, you know, and and and structures form.  
So as you look around the universe, you can say, 
okay, this has evolved to this degree. So I can  
attach this time to it. And you also have the 
cosmic microwave background radiation whose light  
is stretching uniformly in all directions. That 
does give you an average clock. And here's the  
other thing. When we model the universe as it when 
we're doing cosmology, you make these assumptions.  
You assume that the the the universe is not lumpy 
with filaments and all of this. You assume it's a  
it's a uniform gas and that allows you to write 
down equations for conservation of energy for  
the universe, right? And the acceleration equation 
for the universe. You know, these equations allow  
us to perform calculations to look at the past 
and look at the future. They're very useful.  
Some people say that astronomy is a science of 
history because we're always looking in the past.  
Well, I'd say that, you know, if you're looking 
at your device in front of you, you're looking  
into the past. All looking is looking into the 
past because light has to travel to you. Now,  
to us, light moves really fast, but that's only 
because we're so small. The universe is big. Light  
takes 2 and a half million years to get to the 
nearest galaxy. So, light ain't fast as far as  
the universe is concerned. You have to take that 
into account when you think about the universe  
is really mindboggling to to to know that I can 
look at the universe as it exists today. I go a  
certain distance away from us and I can look at 
the universe as it was a 100 million years ago or  
30 300 billion years ago or a billion years ago or 
5 billion years ago or 10 billion years ago. I can  
do that because of the time it takes the light to 
travel to us for us to do those observations. Now,  
what I can't do is look at myself a million 
years ago, right? I can't look at the sun a  
million years ago because that light, you know, 
I'd have to move faster than the speed of light,  
travel beyond the light that the sun emitted a 
million years ago and then turn around and look  
at it and say, "Ah, that's what the sun looked 
like a million years ago." Right? You know,  
if you had wormholes in science fiction, you 
could do that sort of thing, but we can't. So,  
you know, it's one of those limitations of life. 
You know, I used to play a lot of basketball.  
And I used to get a lot of basketball injuries. 
And I used to say to myself, man, imagine if we  
didn't get injuries, how fun this sport would 
be. So, I just love colliding with people,  
right? I just I just love to be physical. Like, if 
I can just run at full speed, just blow, you know,  
life would be fun. But we have these limitations 
and we have to live with them. And the speed of  
light as a speed limit is a limitation we have to 
live with. And so if you want to understand the  
universe and how you observe it and the fact that 
time and distance are related in that way is just  
something you got to live with. One consequence 
of living in an expanding universe is that there  
are multiple horizons that uh define how far away 
we can see. So the universe is expanding and the  
rate at which the universe is expanding varies for 
every observer with distance. So the farther you  
go away, everybody in the universe will see the 
same thing. Right? Everybody is at rest relative  
to themselves. I am at rest relative to myself at 
all times. No matter how fast I'm moving relative  
to you, I'm at rest relative to myself. If light 
is traveling to me from the great distant beyond,  
right, it's going to arrive at my location based 
on a relationship between the distance it's  
traveled and the speed at which it's moving, 
the speed of light, right? If you're moving  
at 50 miles hour, after 1 hour, you will have 
gone 50 miles. Okay? So, what does that mean?  
That means that as time moves forward, light from 
more and more distant reach re reaches are going  
to reach me. So if I'm an observer and I'm looking 
at the limit of my observations, it's going to  
be a sphere around me that's going to grow with 
time, right? Just because light from more distant  
reaches are going to come to me, arrive at my 
location as time goes on. But now we take into the  
account the fact that the universe is expanding. 
And that means that, you know, if I double the  
distance, things are moving twice as fast, three 
times the distance, four, three times as fast. 100  
times the distance, 100 times as fast. Eventually, 
you're going to get to a point where the expansion  
rate reaches the speed of light. Right? And we 
define that as the hub sphere. So if something  
is moving away from you at the speed of light and 
it emits light in your direction, will you be able  
to see that light? And the answer is yeah, you 
will be able to see that light eventually. But  
there is a point just beyond that where you won't 
right that Hubble sphere also expands with time.  
But then you get to the cosmic event horizon where 
this is the boundary by which objects that emit  
their light today, anything beyond that distance, 
their light will never reach us because it will  
travel through a region of spaceime that is moving 
so rapidly away from us that even as it's trying  
to like come to us, right, that expansion is 
pulling it back. So if you imagine that you're on  
a treadmill and the treadmill is moving you away, 
right? You know, you can imagine a slow treadmill,  
a faster one, a faster one, a faster one, right? 
So as a human runner, if you move forward faster  
than a treadmill pulls you back, you make forward 
progress. But if you ramp up the speed of that  
treadmill, eventually you won't be able to make 
forward progress, and eventually you're going to  
start getting carried away. And that's how the 
cosmic event horizon works. Eventually, you get  
to a point where spaceime is expanding away from 
you so fast that whatever light you admit today,  
it's never going to make it to you. But notice 
I say a light emitted today. If you look at the  
most distant objects whose light is reaching us 
today, they were most they were much closer to us  
in the distant past and that's when their light 
started traveling to us. But then the expansion  
of spacetime took them beyond our cosmic 
event horizon. So those objects even though  
their light is coming to us and will eventually 
reach us, the objects themselves are beyond the  
cosmic event horizon. And so that defines a third 
horizon called the particle horizon. It's not for  
objects whose emitting light today. It's for 
objects whose light is arriving at us today.  
And so those objects, if you look at the cosmic 
event horizon, it's around 16 billion lighty  
years away. The hubosphere is around 14 billion 
lighty years away. The particle horizon is more  
like 46 billion lighty years away. So we can see 
the light from objects that are now 46 billion  
lighty years away from us. That expanding universe 
changes everything. In the far future, which is,  
you know, far is relative. you know, as far as 
the age of the universe as we can extrapolate it,  
the universe is going to be around for a very, 
very long time. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're  
still in our universe's infancy. If I look at how 
long the universe is thought to exist, it's going  
to exist, you know, with with stars in it, for 
example. And I say, okay, let's make the analogy  
that that universe existing in the into the future 
known quantity is equivalent to a human being  
that's 100 years old. How old is the universe now 
in comparison to that? It's like a couple of days,  
two, three days old right now. Right? So the 
universe is still at its infancy. And one thing  
that I like to say is you know how the universe is 
still at its infancy because you can observe it.  
only a new universe is observable because that 
expansion is going to take all the galaxies except  
for the ones that are gravitationally bound to us 
like Andromeda outside of our cosmic event horizon  
and eventually we won't be able to see any of them 
in the distant future and the Andromeda galaxy  
and the Milky Way galaxy are going to combine 
right they're going to collide and combine to  
form the Hakee galaxy or you know Milkometer And 
at that point, our entire observable universe is  
going to consist of this galaxy and these cosmic 
backgrounds. Everything else will be swept out of  
our line of sight. We can still make measurements. 
You know, we can use like pulsars to measure  
gravitational waves that are passing through 
this this universe and do some cosmology. We  
can still measure the cosmic microwave background 
radiation, its polarizations, its fluctuations  
and variations and do some cosmology. But as 
far as looking at galaxies, that game's over.
Chapter 3, the two multiveres we might live 
in. What do physicists mean when they say a  
multiverse? It is derived from what we mean 
when we say a universe. And a universe has  
characteristics. And one characteristic is sort of 
like defining a living cell, right? The thing that  
defines a living cell is that it has it contains a 
volume that encloses it and separates it from the  
rest of existence. So a universe is that it's a 
volume separate from the rest of other existences.  
And inside that universe, there are specific 
physical constants that characterize the physics  
within that universe and the interactions within 
that universe. things like the gravitational  
constant, the action constants that we call 
plank's constant or um you know the constant  
that uh combines energy and temperature that we 
call the Boltzman constant right then there are  
some other more obscure constants in there like 
the fine structure constant but these constants  
these values we don't derive them they just are 
right and so every universe will have its own set  
of constants that define how physics takes place 
within that universe and it will be a volume cut  
off from the rest of other such volumes. What is 
the problem that the many worlds interpretation  
of quantum mechanics is trying to solve? It's 
trying to solve what we call the measurement  
problem. And the idea that you know when we make a 
quantum measurement that vector that describes the  
state of the system goes from being expressed as 
a sum of the possible config states of the system  
right when it's measured it will only be found 
in one state but in the pre-measurement state of  
the state we describe it as being a combination 
of all the possible states but once you make a  
measurement is always found to be only in one of 
the possible states. So what's going on there?  
In the first instance in the initial state, you 
have a state vector that's made up of all these  
sums and then after measurement, the state vector 
just ends up having one component of that sum. So  
what does that transition look like? Well, is the 
measurement changing the state of the system in  
this way? And some physicists what they call the 
Copenhagen uh interpretation say yeah the system  
collapses into that one state upon measuring. But 
some other physicists came up with a different  
idea and they said what's happening here is that 
every state actually exists and every state kind  
of corresponds to an its own universe. So the 
measurement that you get tells you which universe  
you're in. Right? So all of the possibilities, all 
of the possible states occur at every measurement,  
but they just occur in different universes, 
which means that there are different copies  
of everything in our universe. Every time 
a measurement is made, you're popping off  
these new universes. You know, it's it's it's 
weird. It's very, very weird and strange. It  
seems counterintuitive. It seems to go against 
conservation of energy. And the other thing is  
we don't even really define what it means to make 
a measurement, right? Is it just an interaction?  
So for example, if I have a photon and electron 
interacting, right? An X-ray that is traveling  
towards some atom, that atom has an electron. So 
there's a famous experiment in physics known as  
the Compton scattering experiment. And this is 
the experiment that shows a particle property  
of light that it exchanges momentum the way 
particles do like billion balls colliding. So  
in that interaction the before the interaction 
both the electron and the light are described as  
waves but in the interaction they both behave as 
particles right. So does that interaction create  
a new universe where each goes from a superp 
position state into a definite state and you so  
think about that many galaxy clusters are full of 
this hot X-ray emitting gas and all these galaxies  
which contain gazillions upon unfathomable numbers 
of electrons are orbiting within that hot million  
degree gas they're being bombarded by X-rays is 
every interaction spinning it off a universe,  
right? It's nuts. And even then, you know, when 
you talk about the fact that that state vector in  
the pre-measurement state, that wave function, 
the pre-measurement state has probabilities  
built within it. What does the probability of 
a measurement even mean? If every measurement  
has a probability of one, right? Every measurement 
has a probability of certain in some universe. So,  
what do these probabilities even mean? Some 
people think, you know, on the fringes that  
that might be real and some, you know, because 
they think that that idea of the wave function  
collapsing is too unphysical. So there must be 
some other explanation. And this is one of those  
interpretations. And I find both explanations 
to be okay. I think we're missing something.  
I think there's something going on that uh 
we're not quite interpreting right, we're not  
understanding right. And you know, I I love to 
live in mystery. I I you know, I love ignorance,  
right? Once you know you're ignorant, you can fix 
it. You can you can you know, it's a provocation.  
You can design an experiment. You can design a 
a thought experiment. You can design mathematics  
to get to the bottom of it. And I, you know, I 
think that this problem has young curious people  
and old curious people doing exactly that. But if 
you accept one or the other, you think you got it  
solved. Now suppose you know we can speculate. 
The thing about having a human mind is you can  
imagine things that have never been observed that 
you know may never be observed can maybe never  
exist but you can imagine it. You can imagine a 
universe in which the mini world's interpretation  
holds up to some sort of experimental 
scrutiny and we're like, "Oh my goodness,  
it's real." What does that mean for our reality? 
Does that mean that now we have the possibility of  
accessing those other universes? Well, what you 
find that happens is a new sort of insight into  
nature is kind of like a new technology, right? 
The internet created a whole new economy. Then  
smartphones on top of the internet created a whole 
new economy. So whenever you have these new ideas  
like straight theory, right? It didn't work out 
for physics but mathematically it created whole  
new areas of exploration, right? A very rich area 
of mathematical understanding and exploration. So  
the first thing is you don't know what you don't 
know. So if you find that this multiverse idea of  
many worlds interpretation turns out to be true, 
does that mean that we're forever isolated from  
these other universes and can never access them? 
That is the current way that most physicists  
think that yeah, if this were true, that would 
be the case. But if it turned out to be true,  
people are really going to start thinking about 
things differently. And in that exploration,  
some clever group of researchers may very well 
find ways of uh interacting between universes,  
right? They can come up with experiments 
that, you know, say, oh, you know,  
there was once this idea that gravity is so much 
weaker than all the other forces because it leaks  
out into this parallel universe. And what we see 
as dark matter in our universe is a gravitational  
pull of matter in a nearby parallel universe. 
And they came with an experimental idea. Well,  
well, you know, if you can measure gravity at a 
short enough distance, then what would happen is  
you'll see suddenly this increase because that's 
before it has leaked out into the other parallel  
universe. It was never measured. But the point 
is is that they came up with a way to measure  
it. And I think that if we do evolve to a state 
of finding that, yeah, there's something to this,  
we're not going to stop there. We're going to 
keep exploring. And who knows where that's going  
to lead. Another way physics invokes the idea of 
multiverse is in cosmology. And this came about  
via a mechanism that was hypothesized to solve a 
couple of problems in cosmology that researchers  
began to notice in the late 20th century. And 
those problems are called the flatness problem  
and the horizon problem. And the solution is 
something called inflation. And inflation is  
this notion that at very very early time in the 
very earliest moments of our universe the universe  
doubled in size over and over and over and over 
again in a tiniest you know 10 to the minus some  
double digit number of seconds right a billionth 
of a billionth of a billionth of a billionth of  
a second something like that and the consequence 
of that is that today regions in the universe that  
appear that there would have been outside of each 
other's cosmic event horizon back in those times  
and could have never communicated with each other 
could have never exchanged energy with each other  
when we observe those regions today they appear 
to have the same temperature as if they were in  
contact right so if I look at the cosmic microwave 
background radiation coming from that direction  
and compare it to the the radiation coming from 
that direction is roughly indic indicative of the  
universe being at the same temperature how could 
that possibly be that should only you know if if  
you do the calculation assuming a standard hot 
big bang model it's only about twice the size of  
the full moon regions that should have about the 
same temperature right but you know it's the same  
temperature across the entire sky what that means 
is regions of the universe that today appear as if  
they were forever outside of each other's horizons 
were at one point within each other's horizons and  
that rapid expansion of the universe iverse took 
them so far away that they have that appearance  
today. So what do I mean by horizon? Right? So in 
relativity, every future possibility is bounded  
by the speed of light. All right? So if you move 
at the speed of light, there's what you can reach  
and you can't reach anything beyond that. Right? 
So you have what is known as a future light cone.  
So if you look at the future light cones of all 
the regions of the early universe, if we take  
the those regions today and you go backwards, 
they would appear to be outside of each other's  
light cones. But clearly they were inside of each 
other's light cones. And this inflationary event  
is what allows that to uh manifest in a physical 
way. But then you need a reason for it. How could  
that have happened? When we started studying how 
that could happen, that led directly to the idea  
of multiverses being real in the cosmological 
realm. The types of universes that exist in the  
multiverse are fundamentally different than the 
ones we see in the many worlds interpretation. So  
what that means is, you know, you can think of it 
like baking a loaf of bread, right? You bake the  
loaf of bread, the bread expands, and inside that 
bread there are little bubbles of air pockets,  
right? So every air pocket has its own history and 
yet the bread itself has its own history and every  
bubble is separate from every other bubble. So 
they have their own separate histories. So that's  
similar to what an inflationary universe would 
create. But the difference is is that the main  
background the whole loaf that universe right that 
thing is there. It's expanding super rapidly. It's  
doing its thing. And when it pops off bubbles, 
it doesn't pop them off at the same time,  
right? These bubbles where they go out of this 
inflationary state and then nucleate into a new  
universe, they pop off, right? You know, one 
happens here. If another one was to happen very  
near it because that bigger space is expanding 
so rapidly, it will be so far away by the time  
it nucleates out that these bubbles are forever 
separate from each other. If the multiverse of  
the cosmological realm that is generated by this 
process called eternal inflation is true then  
there are multiple spacetimes. There is the bulk 
spacetime and I don't want to use that word bulk  
because there was this old model of braids and 
bulks right but truly there is a bigger spaceime  
out there and every universe has its own spaceime 
with its own history that evolves separately from  
that bigger spaceime once that bigger spaceime um 
you know births it the properties in each bubble  
universe will be slightly different each have 
its own history each have its own space time  
curvature. I am so impressed with this animal on 
Earth that we call homo sapiens, right? You know,  
not long ago, you were eating the leftovers of of 
of predators on the plains of Africa. At a certain  
point, you decide you're going to break rocks 
and turn them into tools. And you go from that to  
melting sand and turn it into quantum technology 
and performing experiments and understanding that  
we live in a universe that is evolving. And 
you make measurements of this light left over  
from the origin of the universe called the cosmic 
microwave background radiation. And your physics  
tells you that hey, it should have fluctuations of 
every sort. And if this multiverse thing is real,  
then there should be this thing called a super 
horizon fluctuation. And you make this careful  
measurement. You get to the point where you send 
up the plunk satellite and there it is clean as  
day. The signal of the super horizon fluctuations 
and you say, "Wow, eternal deflation looks like  
it's real and looks like we are in a universe." 
So, we have reached the point of experimental  
verification of the multiverse. But that is a 
big claim. So, it is not a conclusive piece of  
evidence, but it is a strongly circumstantial 
piece of evidence. Some physicists do say  
it's conclusive. Some physicists that I respect 
greatly say that it's for their thinking, right,  
is is it's conclusive. I'm not convinced that it's 
conclusive because I don't quite understand it all  
yet. Uh but I'm working on it in the midst of 
everything else I'm working on. So, you know,  
we've reached that experimental point. And you 
know, man, what a fascinating place nature and  
existence is. What we see in physics over and 
over is that stuff pops out of the equations  
that leads us to new discoveries, right? Maxwell 
discovering that light is an electromagnetic  
wave by manipulating the so-called Maxwell 
equations. But, you know, more often than not,  
stuff pops out of the equations that just isn't 
true. And you got to find some way of saying,  
"Oh, here's how we use that." Right? It turns out 
this part of the equation is reality. That part  
of the equation is just mathematical junk. that's 
left over. At the same time though, we have people  
like Albert Einstein that comes around and he 
writes down equations for say general relativity  
and it and it creates phenomena like black holes 
and gravitational waves that won't be measurable  
for decades to come if not a century to come. 
Right? So there are things that our equations  
predict that may be just complete nonsense and 
there are other things that may be insights into  
the universe but we have no way of measuring 
them now because we just haven't developed to  
that level of technology yet. What that tells me 
is we need to take these predictions seriously  
and we need to continue to as a society fund 
people to pursue these questions because every  
time we find out some new fundamental nature of 
reality, it leads to new engineering that allows  
us to take advantage of this stuff. Research at 
the edges, research into these avantguard ideas  
is the fertile ground for discovery and that is 
where we must explore. Don't just dismiss it as  
that can't be true. The universe has never 
cared what you think can be true. It is up  
to us to listen to the universe and ask the 
universe, hey universe, what are you? And our  
observations and our calculations are the way that 
the universe answers those questions when we ask.
Want to support the channel? Join the Big Think  
Members community where you get 
access to videos early and free.