Hello everyone
I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
There are only a few days left until Chinese New Year.
I would also like to wish everyone a happy Chinese New Year in 2026 in advance!
Today's video
I'd like to talk about a topic related to personal growth.
That is, how to deal with us
Aversion to worldly rules
Of course, it's also because of what I recently had with someone...
My friends have been discussing this topic extensively.
This made me feel compelled to write.
In the process of making this video
I'm reminded of several typical cases.
I have a friend
He believes he is extremely
The talent and temperament of artists and writers
He told me his inner thoughts
How vast the surging feeling is!
How complicated
Full of wonderful ideas and inspiration
Then when I asked him
Have you ever tried it?
Write these things down and publish them.
He shook his head and said...
Words are too pale.
It simply cannot bear the weight of one's own heart.
Very rich and interesting ideas
And once it's written down, it doesn't feel the same anymore.
Another talented man
He possessed a melancholic air about him.
He enjoys writing.
I also occasionally post articles on social media.
But he did not persist.
I create things simply based on my mood.
He felt his ideas were too advanced for his time.
Contemporary people's aesthetic sense is not keeping up
Destined to be a niche market
This is perfectly reasonable.
But he went on to believe that real society is dirty.
It is full of exploitation, oppression and alienation
then
He was very reluctant to find a job.
They also refused to engage in commercial cooperation.
He is used to quoting this
A series of metaphysical propositions
For example, people should be priceless.
Man is the measure of all things.
Or rather, people should be ends rather than means.
However
These propositions, when encountering reality
However, it will face enormous embarrassment and contradictions.
In theory
People are priceless.
However in reality
We inevitably
Accept the market's pricing of you.
Acceptance of being quantified and objectified
In his opinion
This pricing process
It is a degradation of one's own soul.
therefore
As long as I don't enter the market
I am priceless.
My potential is limitless.
But once I accepted that specific position
I became a product of the system.
Alienation of the cog in the machine that is subject to KPI assessment
Both of the above cases demonstrate the parties' [characteristics/features].
Resistance to and rejection of secular rules
The person in question believes that their personality and spirituality...
Or, to put it another way, an independent personality is mutually exclusive with sociality.
The two sides are hostile.
In reality
We can also see this way of thinking.
A more common variant
In other words, some people strongly believe in "hot trends" and have poor understanding of them.
Or perhaps it's some kind of mysterious rich person's mindset.
They often believe they can
Through a precise speculation
A groundbreaking business idea
A business collaboration
Or get to know a big shot
It can achieve leapfrog development in a short period of time.
Complete the overtaking maneuver
And if someone suggests they go first
Learning a subject or skill
Or start with the basics.
Gradually accumulate experience
They will show extreme disgust
In their view
Those step-by-step learning
Jobs that aren't fresh or interesting
Lacking highly creative matters
It's simply a waste of life.
That conventional path is too slow.
It's so boring.
That's too linear.
It was full of the flavor of a mediocre class.
They subconsciously believe
I am a unique soul
They are born to create and innovate.
Therefore I cannot be like those
Like ordinary people who seek stability
Endure this slow climb.
I think this is a very broad topic.
In this video, we'll start...
Starting with these three cases
Exploring the relationship between individuality and sociality
I will put this video in
The list of "Psychology and Education"
If you have any requests to contact me
Topics for discussion and consultation
You can contact me via email to make an appointment.
first
We must admit
In the above three cases
The parties involved have a view of this world
Especially the perception of contemporary Chinese society
It is keen and profound.
Chinese society in many dimensions
It is unfriendly to individual people.
Even cruel
The intense competition of China's college entrance examination and
The intense competition is well-known.
Even if you get into a very good university
If you choose an unpopular major
For example, philosophy, art history, etc.
Therefore, his employment prospects are obviously...
There are far fewer than in popular majors.
Unless he compensates with his abundant personal abilities
The job market doesn't care how deep your soul is.
How rich the inspiration
They will only ask you questions using the simplest and most blunt logic.
Where does your monetization capability lie?
The education system is also what we...
Topics repeatedly criticized on the channel
From childhood
We then entered into a standardized examination system.
Your curiosity
Your divergent thinking
Your unique perception of the world
It often seems superfluous in the face of a standard answer.
We were disciplined to fight for that one and only score.
In this process
People have been flattened into rankings
And when we've weathered the discipline of education...
After entering the workplace
They often fall into another set of hidden constraints.
For example, the Chinese workplace is full of...
Detestable bureaucracy and formalism
We need to face the cold, hard KPI assessment.
Dealing with those meaningless weekly reports
A meeting held for the sake of holding a meeting.
And all sorts of ridiculous office politics
At these moments
You will indeed feel yourself as
The dignity of a subject is being stripped away
You've become a cog in a large machine.
Some people might say
I'm not going to work
Freelancing
Creating
Does that mean you're free?
That's not necessarily true.
Whether you are writing articles or making videos
I'll continue writing novels and making music.
Although it's no longer on the surface
The boss who was pointing fingers
Your creative independence needs to be increased.
But the invisible shackles still exist.
You must think often
Who are my readers?
How can I make a profit?
How many views do I get?
The most realistic thing is
You need to learn how to use the internet
The platform's algorithms are locked in a battle of wits.
Algorithms are cold-blooded.
You may have to adjust your content.
To cater to a certain emotion of the audience
Therefore we will find
Alienation is actually an unavoidable situation for everyone.
As long as he is determined to acquire resources from the world
He will inevitably need to change himself.
Adjust yourself to adapt to the external environment
therefore
That kind of personality
The fear of being swallowed up by society
Of course, it is very real and widespread.
but
When we got to this point in our conversation
We need to be wary of a psychological trap.
When we face the pain of reality
We naturally focus on the injustice of power.
Focus on those who are oppressive and disciplined
Political, economic and educational systems
To identify and perceive the influence of mainstream culture on
Our subtle manipulation and infiltration
This is because of our inner feelings
With a better ideal
This is of course absolutely necessary.
However, there exists a very subtle distinction here.
It is also a form of resistance against the existing system and culture.
It may actually originate from two sources.
A completely different idealism
If not distinguished
We can easily confuse these two.
The first type of idealism is forward-looking.
He stands from a free, subjective perspective.
In order to better realize myself
In order to create a more rational
Resistance against the rules
These rebels possess the ability to socialize.
They saw the limitations of the rules.
That's why I chose to surpass it.
In the absence of the ability to change the existing rules and systems
They will do their best within the limits allowed by the rules.
Expand your freedom to the best of your ability
Efforts to create and build
Even in an extremely small and restrictive space
They also need to strive for product...
Leave your mark
It will not be because of the various things that exist in reality
Give up on creation because of darkness and imperfection.
For example, a friend who used to work within the system
I feel pained and weary of formalized official documents.
But she still tried her best in official documents.
Add your own thoughts to it
In order to avoid being assimilated
A person working in the army
Friends in clerical jobs are feeling depressed
But he still insisted on reading the books he liked.
Persist in thinking and improve your abilities
Preparing for life after leaving the military
They are in an environment of unfreedom
But they did not give up creating.
Instead, they tried dancing in shackles.
The second type of idealism is backward-looking.
He didn't really want to build anything.
What to build
More than anything, it stemmed from a longing for that original state.
That is, the undifferentiated and undefined one.
A tribute to the state of children who do not need to take responsibility
The parties involved often show that they are interested in this
Aversion to a mediocre, trivial, and boring world
Criticizing how the world is.
Alienation and deprivation of our subjectivity
But this criticism did not lead to more creation.
Instead, it led to stagnation and isolation.
therefore
Their resistance to alienation
It carries a more avant-garde and radical quality than the former.
But also a more hollow color
They are prone to experiencing pain and loss.
But this sensitivity comes from being in the womb.
Against the backdrop of the feeling of being unconditionally satisfied
The banner and ideals they used to criticize reality
Actually, it's that which sounds wonderful but...
However, the unrealistic maternal environment
for example
Many people deeply resent China's exam-oriented education system.
Especially Chinese composition
These essays force children to tell lies and use clichés.
It prevents children from expressing their true feelings.
This is certainly a very reasonable criticism.
Our channel also made a special video about it.
This issue has been discussed.
At this level
The Western education system is indeed...
Do a better job of respecting individual expression
However
When we examine it from a higher perspective
We will find
As long as it is an exam or assessment
No matter how you change its form and content
It is impossible for any of us to fully accept ourselves.
In other words
Alienation is inevitable.
For example, if you apply to a Western university
You need to write a personal statement or motivation letter.
Although the school requires you to show
Unique self and personality
But this obviously doesn't mean you can write whatever you want.
You still have to follow another set of rules.
To present a within a limited space
An image that aligns with the school's values ​​and aesthetics
And those chaotic and dark
Of course, you can't write your thoughts down.
Different social systems certainly have huge differences.
But we need to enter society
In fact, everyone inevitably has to bear this kind of burden.
The erosion between one's true self and social image
We need to perform
Strategic compromise is needed
And this relates to our original sense of omnipotence.
Both are forms of negation
As we did on October 5th
What was mentioned in that video
At the beginning of life
Infants are in a chaotic, undifferentiated state.
There is no clear boundary between him and his mother and the world.
All symbolic languages ​​and
The rules do not exist here.
Therefore, what you experience is a magical feeling.
He has everything he desires in this field.
Without any obstacles
This is the Real.
A chaotic realm that is both pre-linguistic and pre-symbolic.
Individuals are filled with intense energy and pleasure within it.
As children learn language
He then entered the realm of symbolism.
This is a collection of language symbols
A network of laws and social rules
For the individual, it also means a kind of
Deeper alienation and trauma
So-called symbol
It is to use symbols and concepts to
Replacement and substitution of real things
As Lacan said
"Language is the murder of things."
He believed that the establishment of symbolic order
It must be based on the premise of murder in the real world.
When we use the word "tree" to refer to
A real, living tree
This tree is uniquely full of sap.
Its reality was killed and emptied.
Instead, a universal, abstract symbol was used.
therefore
The cost of a person entering the order of language and symbols
It means that we have lost each other forever.
The world's most direct and primal connection
This primal loss
This deficiency is caused by language itself.
It symbolizes the order that each subject receives.
The most fundamental trauma
However
We still need to think.
Is this alienation and trauma a bad thing?
Obviously not.
Rather than saying it's a necessary step in a person's growth, it's more accurate to say it's a necessary part of that
If a person has not experienced alienation caused by language
So he actually got caught up in it.
A state of mental illness
He is unable to form relationships with others.
Unable to communicate
Unable to distinguish between fantasy and reality
Unfortunately
When we are in an oppressive system
When we reflect on and criticize the oppression brought about by the system
It can also easily lead to the inevitable aspects of the growth process.
Even beneficial alienation
They were also treated as enemies and excluded.
We would feel
Anything that makes me uncomfortable
Anything that requires me to compromise and overcome difficulties
These are all external conspiracies to discipline and exploit me.
therefore
We need to do this here.
A very clear distinction
Although many external pressures are unreasonable
But as long as you want to achieve real progress and improvement
A certain degree of alienation and
Constraints are actually unavoidable.
Even necessary
For example, at the beginning of the video
The friend mentioned
I think his feelings are definitely real.
When he closed his eyes
When immersed in one's own contemplation
He truly possesses boundless inspiration.
At that moment
His thoughts are fluid.
It is all-powerful.
It could even be described as perfect.
Many people will think this way
bizarre and wonderful scenes
He considered it proof of his genius and individuality.
In that pure inner world
He is an absolutely free God.
However
When you try to write these inspirations down
The fall began
In order to bring that invisible idea
To become tangible text
You will inevitably be bound by grammatical rules.
You cannot create a language that only you understand.
That's equivalent to meaningless gibberish.
You must use humans
Conventional vocabulary and syntax
If you want another person to understand your thoughts
You must carefully consider the wording.
Carefully consider whether your expression is accurate.
In this process
Suffering is inevitable.
Because of language and our inner world
That vivid feeling
There will always be gaps.
There will always be losses.
It even carries the risk of being misunderstood forever.
This is a typical example of alienation.
You feel like your thoughts are being fragmented by language.
But this is precisely the truth of creation.
A person wants to write it out
We must accept this constraint.
You need to consider grammar and syntax.
We need to consider the metaphorical meaning of a word in relation to culture.
Reader acceptance must be considered.
These things seem to be unfree.
It is heavy.
But they are key to bringing an idea to fruition.
This is the difference between floating in the air and standing on the ground.
When in the air
Individuals do indeed feel relaxed, free, and unrestrained.
But that was ultimately an illusion.
And when he started writing, word by word
To examine
When building the structure
His feet were firmly planted on the hard ground.
This process doesn't seem that free.
Regardless of the form of your creation
Whether it's writing a novel
A piece of music, a paper
As long as it is genuine creation
It's inevitable that you'll sometimes feel restless and frustrated.
Moments of deep thought and frustration
These moments don't seem pleasant or easy at all.
Even boring
But it is precisely this tolerance for monotony that
It is precisely this shackle that was voluntarily put on.
That's how that originally elusive inspiration became
Works that can be perceived, transmitted, and preserved
We often hear on the internet
Voices against the worship of suffering
More and more people are starting to feel disgusted.
That kind of meaningless education through hardship
This is certainly a sign of social progress.
But the problem is
When we pour out the bath water
It seems the baby was also thrown out.
I call it a kind of empty freedom.
on the one hand
Individuals isolate themselves
He did feel that he had avoided exploitation and being evaluated.
Avoided alienation
Preserving the original aspiration
However
This kind of freedom is also so anxiety-inducing.
Because in this narrow space
In a vacuum, untouched by reality
Your ego, though it may seem
Pure, clean, and spiritual
But it is also "undefined".
He was like a clump of water without a container.
Although clear
But it could be scattered at any time.
Polluted by the outside world
This state can create a kind of illusion.
It's as if as long as I don't engage with reality...
I possess infinite possibilities.
And once you have to deal with that mess
An impure real world
Once you are about to accept specific tasks and evaluations
This infinite possibility collapsed.
We would consider that a form of depravity.
Feeling the beauty of my soul
It inevitably got dirty.
then
In order to maintain this illusory perfection
We can only retreat deeper.
But this actually exacerbates the individual's condition.
Dependence on a sense of superiority
We've fallen into a state where the purer,
The cycle of vulnerability and narcissism
So
How exactly should we maintain our individuality and...
Find that delicate balance between embracing reality and reality.
How about building a truly solid self?
We'll discuss this topic in the next video.
That's all for today's video.
If you have any questions
You have questions and would like to discuss them with me.
Just contact me via email.
For example, you want to discuss a certain article with me.
A certain quote, a certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
Or you would like to discuss your...
Life experiences, confusion, and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions regarding payment and communication methods
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you are unable to pay or become a member
Please also contact me
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will put this video in
The list of "Psychology and Education"
I also recommend everyone to check out my videos.
Other videos in this list
Thank you for watching.
goodbye