In 1868, Japan was so poor and weak that just like 
other ancient civilizations like China and Egypt,  
it was staring down the barrel of Western 
colonization. Yet, where other industrialization  
efforts crashed and burned, Japan's 19th century 
industrialization remained the fastest economic  
miracle in history till perhaps the rise of 
China a century later. So, how did they do  
it? And why was Japan the only non-European nation 
to industrialize so early? The standard answer is  
the so-called Meji Restoration, which was started 
by Japanese samurai that were worried that Japan  
would soon be carved up like China. You see, just 
like British gunboats forced China to open up  
trade on unequal terms, in 1854, American gunboats 
had forced Japan to sign a couple of unequal  
treaties with Western powers, which forced them 
to cap import tariffs at just 5%. Fearing for the  
very future of Japan, in 1871, Okubo Toshimichi did 
something unthinkable for a traditional samurai.  
He cut off his samurai topnot, put on a Victorian 
three-piece suit, and together with a core group  
of reformers, he overthrew the reigning shogun 
and replaced him with Emperor Meii. The Meiji  
government wanted a strong military. So in 
the 19th century, that meant steel, warships,  
guns, railroads. In other words, Japan needed 
to industrialize fast. Enrich the country,  
strengthen the military. That was the job of 
Okubo Toshimichi. But that was easier said  
than done. Egypt had famously tried and failed for 
decades to industrialize. And even the mighty Qing  
dynasty's 1961 selfstrengthening movement was 
increasingly looking like a massive failure.  
Yet in just 30 years time, Okubo's home ministry 
had overseen the rise of a diversified industrial  
base that allowed Japan to defeat a major European 
power in open war, to end the unequal treaties,  
and to rather than be colonized, to become the 
colonizer instead. But why did Okubo succeed  
where so many others failed? How did he not only 
modernize Japan but create a playbook that would  
later form the basis for the Korean, Taiwanese, 
and Chinese economic miracles in the 20th century.  
Entire academic careers have been devoted to this 
very question, and it's very easy indeed to either  
oversimplify it or to get lost in the details. 
Yet, after months of research, I think that I've  
boiled down the essence of the Meiji miracle 
to just five foundational building blocks.  
Block number one, the government foundation. Block 
number two, the liberal free market revolution.  
Block number three, the big government push. Block 
number four, the monetary creation tightrope.  
Block number five, the Meji secret sauce. And as 
we will see on their own, these building blocks  
are not enough. Only together can they explain why 
Japan industrialized first. Okay, building block  
number one is actually pretty uncontroversial. 
But how far the Meiji government went in it, even  
changing the Japanese language itself honestly 
surprised me. It is building block number one,  
the government foundation. To understand how this 
worked, consider the life story of a young boy,  
Sakichi Toyoda, born in 1867. Every night, 
Sakichi fell asleep to the rhythmic, exhausting  
clack clack clack of his mother laboring over 
a primitive wooden handloom. His father was a  
humble carpenter. Had he been born in old Japan 
or across the sea in Qing, China, Sakichi's destiny  
would have been set and kind of boring. He would 
live and die a carpenter. He was expected to be  
illiterate, poor, and quiet. Luckily, Okubo's Meiji 
Revolution shattered those rules. But to be clear,  
Okubo had a really good base to start from since 
literacy rates in Japan were already higher than  
in the mainland before the major restoration. Yet 
the new government went into overdrive to push  
them even higher. In 1872, the Maji government 
introduced a modern westernstyled national  
education system. Rural populations initially 
found these schools actually unfamiliar and  
alien. Yet, school attendance skyrocketed from 
an estimated 45% in 1870 to over 98% by 1901. As  
a consequence, national literacy surged past 90% 
by 1910, producing a uniquely qualified workforce  
foundation for Japan's upcoming industrialization. 
But Okubo understood that basic literacy and  
mastering complex technical engineering 
are two very different things. Therefore,  
with his home ministry, he created the industrial 
promotion bureau to supercharge the imports and  
translation of western technical textbooks. The 
scale of this linguistic operation was actually  
quite staggering. Recent research by economists 
Huas Shakab and Weinstein show that in 1870,  
technical books were exclusively available 
in European languages like English, France,  
and German. So it didn't matter if you could read, 
you could not read these types of books. However,  
by 1910, the landscape had completely transformed. 
Japanese language technical literacy was trailing  
only French and English, putting Japan on 
a completely different level than any other  
Asian nation. But their research reveals that 
this wasn't just a matter of running a routine  
translation office. The Maji government actually 
had to alter the very fabric of the Japanese  
language to accommodate the industrial revolution. 
You see, when cuttingedge technologies were  
invented in Britain, it of course led to a wave of 
new words in the English language like railroad,  
steam engine or telegraph. Translating these 
concepts into related languages like French or  
German was relatively easy. However, for Japan, 
there was a massive risk that translators would  
come up with hundreds of different translations 
for, for example, the word telegraph. And  
therefore, the Maji government massively expanded 
earlier translation efforts using standardized  
technical dictionaries that triggered an absolute 
explosion of new words in the Japanese language  
after the Maji government came to power. Now the 
timing of this all could of course not have been  
more perfect for Sakichi Toyota who even though he 
was born poor had access to a state school where  
he learned to read and thanks to this language 
basis Toyota could of course read technical  
magazines and he famously read Samuel Smiles 
British self-help book which Toyota credited  
with setting him on the path to becoming an 
inventor. However, reading books is only half  
the battle. To really supercharge knowledge 
catch up to the west, Okubo's home ministry  
subsidized Japanese students that wanted to study 
abroad. And they also brought knowledge to Japan,  
paying foreign advisers exorbitant salaries to 
train locals. And they organized expositions  
where government imported machines and then showed 
these to entrepreneurs. And Toyota famously built  
his first patented wooden loom only after visiting 
the third national industry exposition in Tokyo,  
a massive event organized by the Matei government 
to explicitly showcase these machines to study by  
people like Toyota. However, when Sakichi tried 
to upgrade his famous wooden looms to steel,  
he hit a wall. In 1905, his prototype steel looms 
literally shook themselves to pieces as they were  
utterly humiliated in endurance tests against 
British looms from the legendary Plat Brothers.  
Desperate, Sakichi took a massive risk. He hired 
an American master machinist, Charles Francis,  
to help him out. But to pay his exorbitant 
salary, Sakichi actually had to pay a lot of  
that out of his own wage. But while he lived on 
the edge of ruin, sacrificing his own livelihood,  
he did in fact end up learning the secrets of 
precision steel engineering. But while technical  
knowledge allowed Toyota to become an inventor, it 
was Okubo's aggressive infrastructure investment  
push that allowed him to become a truly scalable 
business. Toyota could of course never have made  
metal looms without government train lines to 
transport them to clients across the country.  
And he could not have coordinated a modern supply 
chain without government constructed telegraph  
lines. And his primary customers, the textile 
mills, only operated because they could import  
ra cotton and export finished goods through modern 
state funed boards on state subsidized ships. So  
while there were also many smart ambitious young 
people like Sakichi in China or Korea, they simply  
lacked the access to advanced technical 
knowledge and physical infrastructure that  
the Miji government handed to Toyota. Yet if the 
state had just built infrastructure and education,  
Sakiichi would actually still never have become 
Japan's greatest inventor. Which brings us to  
building block number two, the liberal free market 
revolution. Building block two is exactly where  
the Maji reforms differed radically from the 
ChineseQing reforms. You see, theQing tried  
to build Western industries with conservative 
cultural Asian values. Yet, when Okubu Toshimichi  
traveled the world in the early 1870s to study 
western industry, he realized that Japan had to  
import more than just machinery. To compete with 
the west, Japan's centuries old, rigid, feudal  
cast system had to be completely dismantled. This 
social revolution had a massive, massive immediate  
impact on the fortunes of ordinary citizens 
like Sakichi Toyota. under the old Tokugawa  
feudal structure. Sakiji as the son of a humble 
carpenter was restricted by both rigid cast and  
guilt systems from ever really truly scaling 
a disruptive manufacturing company. Therefore,  
abolishing the class system was the first crucial 
step to unlock Japan's human potential. However,  
simply being allowed to trade was not enough to 
convince people to risk their life savings on  
unproven technologies. Therefore, in 1885, the 
Maji government passed the Patent Monopoly Act,  
a legal shield that Toyota later explicitly 
credited as the primary spark that motivated  
him to become a professional inventor. Together, 
building blocks one and two sound like a textbook  
triumph of classical economic 101. The government 
took care of infrastructure and education, got rid  
of bad regulations, secure property rights, and 
simply stepped back then to let the free market  
work its magic. However, there is a massive 
glaring problem with this simplistic handsoff  
narrative, and that is Argentina. You see, at this 
exact same time on the other side of the planet,  
Argentina was undergoing its own jaw-dropping, 
some would say, economic miracle. By exploiting  
vast tracks of cheap land and flooding the market 
with agricultural exports, Argentina became almost  
as rich as Great Britain on paper. However, 
despite looking like the rise of Japan at first,  
Japan actually industrialized, which later allowed 
Japan to truly join the rich world while Argentina  
was left behind. This puzzling divergence is 
what famously led the Nobel laurate economist  
Simon Knet declare that there are four kinds of 
countries in the world. Developed, underdeveloped,  
Japan and Argentina. So why did 19th century 
Japan successfully industrialized while 19th  
century free marketloving Argentina failed at 
industrialization. This brings us to building  
block number three, the big push. You see in 
development economics the big push theory was  
first proposed by economist Paul Rosenstein Rodan 
in 1943 and he stated that industries in poor  
nations suffer from a coordination problem and 
that to solve it a country must launch a massive  
coordinated investment push across multiple 
dependent industries all at once. To see this  
in practice let's look at Sakichi's Toyota's steel 
loom factory. To build these advanced steel looms,  
Sakichi needed a steady supply of highquality 
coal and iron. However, importing these heavy raw  
materials from Europe was prohibitively expensive. 
And therefore, Japan desperately needed its own  
domestic mining industry. But who on earth would 
risk a life savings opening a coal mine when there  
were no modern factories to buy all of that 
coal? Should Toyota wait to build a factory  
until the mines existed? Or should the mines 
only exist if Toyota's factories were already  
running? The answer is simply that without some 
intervention, neither of these would get built,  
at least not quick enough. And this is why Akubo's 
home affair department stepped in to play the role  
of the ultimate grand coordinator under a national 
policy called promoting production and encouraging  
industry. They did not just write checks. They 
actually built model factories like the Shinmachi  
spinning mill to show private entrepreneurs how 
modern manufacturing was supposedly done. And for  
heavy industry, they went even further directly 
constructing state-of-the-art installations like  
the Nagasaki shipyard and the massive Miki 
coal mine. Sakichi could only make advanced  
steel looms because Okubo had given the textile 
and mining industries that Sakichi depended on a  
big push. However, as state planners all over 
the world would discover in the 20th century  
under communism, coordinating an entire national 
economy by just a government is incredibly hard.  
And indeed, Okubo's state-run enterprises quickly 
became notorious money fits plagued by massive  
operational inefficiencies. And to make matters 
worse, Toshimichi faced a violent backlash at  
home. In 1877, his former friend Saigo Takamorei 
led the southern samurai in the Satsuma Rebellion,  
arguing that modernization was just moving far 
too fast in Japan. And although the government  
eventually crushed the rebellion, the financial 
cost was so massive that it forced the Maji  
government to turn to the printing presses, 
sending the Japanese economy into a spiral of  
hyperinflation. And to make matters worse, while 
his side would prevail, the Satsuma rebellion's  
fallout would prematurely end Okubo's role in 
the maji economic miracle. In 1878, while riding  
his carriage, he was ambushed and assassinated by 
conservative samurai men who felt betrayed by his  
modern world. When they searched his body, they 
then found that he was actually carrying a letter  
from his old friend, third turd rebel rival, Saigo 
Takamorei. Okubu had sacrificed his friendships,  
his culture, and finally his life to build the 
foundations of modern Japan. Yet he died nearly  
broke, having poured even much of his personal 
funds into now failing state enterprises. So with  
the country on the brink of financial collapse, 
the government turned to a man who could not  
be more different. Okubu's former disciple, 
Matsucata Masayoshi. Unlike his charismatic,  
visionary mentor, Matsucata was a numbers driven, 
quiet, gentle man. Yet, as it would turn out,  
a quiet calculating numbers man was precisely what 
Japan needed. You see, to kill hyperinflation,  
Matsucata presented himself as a brutal fiscal 
hawk. He slashed government spending, sucked  
cash out of circulation and let interest rates 
skyrocket. Millions of poor farmers went bankrupt,  
and Matsucata became the most hated man in Japan. 
However, a closer look by historian Steven J.  
Ericson actually reveals Matsugatu didn't just 
blindly cut budgets all across the board. Instead,  
he targeted only the state's worst inefficiencies. 
And therefore, Erikson called his policy  
expansionary austerity, not full-blown austerity. 
And perhaps even more importantly, Matsucata  
realized that while the state-led big push had 
succeeded in building the physical infrastructure,  
the government was simply terrible at running 
day-to-day businesses. and therefore he engineered  
a brilliant pivot. Rather than liquidating these 
failing state-owned enterprises, Matsucata sold  
them off at a fire sale to wealthy, well-connected 
merchant families. And these families bundled the  
assets into highly diversified mega corporations 
known as Zybatsu like Mishubi, Mitsui, and  
Sumitomo. To sweeten the deal, the government even 
granted these Zybatsu mega corporations, private  
banking licenses, and lucrative monopolies over 
state shipping routes and mines. But crucially,  
this did not mean that the Mei state left industry 
completely to the free market. No, they remained  
heavily involved in high-risk infrastructure 
projects and heavy industries like Yawata steel  
works. And crucially, to avoid falling prey to 
the type of crony capitalism that ruins almost  
every developing country it touches, Matsucata let 
the Zibatu compete amongst each other ruthlessly  
to ensure efficiency. Just as importantly, these 
lucrative monopolies on mines and transport routes  
were strictly conditional on performance. If 
a Zibbatu failed to run a mine productively,  
then the state would simply take it away 
and hand it to a competitor. Therefore,  
as economists Randall Mor and Masau Nakamura 
argue, the Zibbatsu were not a parasitic  
oligarchy. They were simply a more efficient 
solution to give Japanese industries the big  
push that they needed to power Japan's shocking 
military victories in the first SinoJapanese war  
in 1895 and the Russo European power Japanese 
war in 1905 which Japan won. And by defeating a  
major European superpower like Russia, Japan had 
really proved that it could no longer be treated  
as a secondass nation which ended the unequal 
treaties. And while he was not there to see it,  
Okubo's original mission, enrich the 
country, strengthen the military,  
was now officially complete. However, 1905 was 
not the end of the road for Sakei Toyota. In fact,  
his ultimate success would rely directly on 
this unique Zibatu system. You see, when China's  
Boxer Rebellion broke out, Toyota's textile 
exports to China crashed to practically zero,  
threatening to bankrupt his young firm. And in a 
pure free market, his company would have surely  
died right then and there. However, because Toyota 
had the deep pocketed Mitsui Zibbatsu backing him.  
Well, he could tank the losses and restructure 
Toyota's business. And this meant that in 1929,  
he served the ultimate poetic justice to the 
British Plat brothers, whose superior machines  
embarrassed Toyota decades earlier. They admitted 
defeat. They bought the patent rights to Toyota's  
revolutionary type G automatic loom for £100,000. 
The student had officially become the master,  
but Sakichi was dying. On his deathbed in 1930, 
he looked at his son Picho and he did not tell  
him to keep building looms. Instead, it said that 
he handed him the massive British payout and gave  
him one final challenge. I did my part with 
textiles. Now you use this money to build the  
Japanese automobile. Ultimately it was roughly 
around this time that Argentina truly stagnated  
as an agrarian nation and also turned to more 
state involvement looking at Japan trying to  
industrialize. But it became clear that Japan had 
provided the blueprint for the world when it comes  
to a state and mega corporation guided big push. 
So, this is where our story could end. But for me,  
it was not enough. I still had two nagging 
questions that standard economic theory, even with  
the big push building block, struggles to answer. 
Number one, how did a dirt poor country like Japan  
actually pay for all of this without drowning in 
foreign debt? And second, sure, Japan's government  
had increased education and infrastructure, but 
didn't established Western competitors enjoy these  
advantages already? How did Japanese startups like 
Toyota actually out compete established Western  
giants who already had a decadesl long head 
start? To answer these two nagging questions,  
we have to look at our next building blocks. 
Starting with building block number four,  
dual monetary manipulation. Okay. To understand 
how the initially poor Miji government financed  
its economic miracle, we have to understand 
the dual nature of money creation. First,  
there is the type of money that the state cannot 
create. Foreign money like British pounds, gold or  
silver at the time. This was arguably the most 
important type of money for an industrializing  
state like Japan because it needed it to import 
advanced western machinery and to hire very  
expensive foreign technical experts. At the time, 
standard economics prescribed that a developing  
state should borrow foreign money, of course, to 
industrialize. Then when the industrialization was  
complete, the state could repay these loans thanks 
to export revenues in gold, pounds, and silver.  
However, the fate of Egypt served as Okubo's and 
Matsucata's ultimate horror scenario. You see,  
Egypt had borrowed to the hilt to fund a state-led 
big push industrialization effort. However,  
Egypt's ability to pay back those loans 
depended entirely on exporting cotton.  
And when the American Civil War ended and cheap 
American cotton flooded back onto global markets,  
Egyptian cotton prices crashed and Egypt could 
no longer service its debts. Next, Western  
powers used those unpaid debts as a convenient 
pretext to militarily invade and colonize Egypt,  
the exact fate the Maji samurai were trying to 
prevent. So instead of borrowing, Okubo and later  
Matakata tried their best to fund every single 
foreign import using the cash generated from  
domestic exports. However, this left a major 
puzzle. How do you jumpstart domestic export  
industries without foreign money from foreign 
borrowing for these machines and knowledge?  
This is where domestic money creation comes in. 
In a sovereign government, they can essentially  
print this out of thin air. This only becomes 
inflationary if it's not backed by a corresponding  
increase in real economic production. Therefore, 
if you print money to build a productive factory,  
you can theoretically increase both the 
supply of money and the supply of goods,  
keeping prices stable. However, it could take 
years for factories to become operational. So,  
to prevent inflation, Okubo turned to taxation. 
Under the old feudal shogunut, taxes were paid in  
physical rice. However, this meant that government 
revenue fluctuated wildly depending on the weather  
and crop yields, making long-term planning and 
investment in factories impossible. Therefore,  
Okubu introduced a radical 3% land tax based 
strictly on the monetary value of the land to  
be paid exclusively in cash. Not only did this 
stabilized state revenue needed for the big push  
by changing from rice to currency, it greatly 
incentivized ordinary Japanese people to turn to  
open bank accounts. And this allowed statebacked 
banks and private Zibatu conglomerates to further  
increase the money supply through private bank 
credit creation to fund upcoming industries. But  
to prevent unproductive use of credit, the state 
and Zibatu banks had highly targeted productive  
mandates. State banks lend money strictly 
for agricultural development, for example,  
while Zibatu banks funded mines, shipping lines, 
and heavy manufacturing. This was not yet used  
for stock market speculation or housing bubbles 
like we may see today. And because nearly every  
newly created yen went directly into expanding 
productive capacity, the supply of goods roughly  
kept pace with the supply of money, keeping 
inflation firmly in check. However, this very  
success did greatly threaten Japan's access to 
foreign money. You see, the domestic money supply  
grew and Japan's citizens got richer. Of course, 
then they wanted to buy consumer goods. But  
because Japan's own industries were still in their 
infancy, Western factories could produce goods  
far more efficiently and cheaply than Japanese 
startups. Therefore, citizens naturally wanted  
to use their new money to buy superior western 
imports for which they needed pound, silver,  
or gold. That the state and industry of course 
needed to import machines and knowledge. That's  
a problem. Therefore, historically, developing 
nations like the United States tended to protect  
their young infant industries from foreign 
competition behind giant tariff walls, decreasing  
imports. However, remember those unequal treaties 
without the ability to raise tariffs. There was a  
very real risk that Japan's advanced industries 
would be strangled in their cradle by cheap  
Western imports, regardless of how much capital 
the state banks and zibatu poured into them. So,  
how did Japan manage to protect its domestic 
industries and conserve precious silver and gold  
when it was legally forbidden to use tariffs? This 
brings us to the final crucial ingredient of the  
Maji miracle, the Magi secret sauce, which I think 
you could summarize as stealthily suppressing  
imports and secretly encouraging exports. So, how 
did the Maji Samurai do this? Well, I think there  
are four main strategies that we actually still 
often see today. The first is export subsidies.  
Under Okubu, this was pretty direct as he 
gave, for example, just money to Japanese  
shipping companies, helping exports. But also, the 
seemingly orthodox Matsucatu started the practice  
of subsidizing exports, supporting banks via the 
newly created central bank. Even Masugatus's fire  
sales of state factories to zibatus at absolute 
bottom of the barrel prices. Well, you could look  
at this and say, well, that's clearly a failure of 
the state. They're giving away money for free. But  
you could also say it was actually a masterclass 
in d-risking. You see, by building these factories  
first, the state essentially absorbed the risk 
100%. So then when the Zabatu took them over,  
they started on a much closer footing to western 
conglomerates which had had factories for decades.  
Second, Japan gave rising industries a massive 
boost simply by only procuring Japanese companies  
for state projects such as railroads or 
navy ships. This massively predictable  
state demand meant that affected Japanese heavy 
industries essentially didn't have to worry about  
foreign competition for years. Third, and perhaps 
entirely by accident, Matsugatu premiered a staple  
of Asian development miracles, undervaluing your 
currency when he chose to keep Japan on the silver  
standard when most of the Western world shifted 
collectively towards the gold standard. You see,  
because this massive global shift meant that the 
value of silver collapsed to gold, it also meant  
that the value of the yen, which remained tight 
to silver automatically depreciated against the  
US dollar and the British pound. And as a result, 
Japanese products became much cheaper compared  
to the West even though tariffs were low. This 
simultaneously helped reduce imports and boosted  
exports, making more international money available 
for importing machines and knowledge. But perhaps  
the darkest part of the Japanese development 
miracle was that while it greatly improved  
the life of poor, highly talented people like 
Sakichi, Japanese industry was also built on a  
dark foundational reality. The brutal exploitation 
of the Japanese workforce. You see, while the  
West introduced labor protection laws, Japanese 
workers enjoyed none of these. Japanese factories  
routinely ran grueling 14 to 16-hour shifts 
and heavily exploited young female peasants,  
contract laborers who were housed in restrictive 
factory dormitories. Meanwhile, the Maji state  
suppressed labor unions, outlawing strikes, and 
viewed organized labor as a dangerous socialist  
threat. Again, this benefited both exports 
by allowing Japanese startups to consistently  
undercut Western competition on price because 
they had to pay lower wages. And simultaneously,  
these low wages kept imports low, allowing the 
Maji government to preserve its precious gold and  
foreign reserves and completely avoid the Egyptian 
debt trap. Yet, it was this very strategy that  
arguably caused Japan to fall into its own trap 
and become a fascist military dictatorship after  
the Great Depression plunged large parts of the 
already poor export oriented Japanese workforce  
into poverty. It was under these conditions 
that rogue elements of the Japanese army started  
violently targeting Japan's wealthy elites like 
the director general of the Mitsui Zibbatsu. As  
the public supported the violence given their 
terrible circumstances, this arguably set the  
scene for the civilian government to completely 
surrender eventually to the powerful military,  
which later plunged Japan into World War II, which 
of course ultimately destroyed its industries. But  
that's the story for another time. For now, I hope 
you found this insightful, this deep dive into the  
story of Japanese legends like Okubu, Matsugatu, 
and Sakichi Toyota. I hope it was insightful to  
see how the Maji miracle can be explained by a 
combination of standard free market economics,  
sure, but also big government and zybatsuleled 
pushes and a set of forbidden techniques,  
many of which you can still clearly see today 
in major inspired economic miracles like those  
of Taiwan, Korea, and China. This was my modern 
interpretation of this story. But what if you  
had lived in the late 19th century and early 
20th century when this all happened? Well,  
in that case, you could read all about the events 
of the Maji restoration and the rise of Japan if  
you consistently read our advertising sponsor, 
The Economist. And even today, if you don't want  
to miss the next development miracle, I highly 
recommend you check out their coverage on the  
ascent of India's economy, Vietnam's fast but 
fragile rise, and finally their analysis on  
how East Asia should respond to the rapid rise 
of Chinese industry. As these analysis show,  
The Economist delivers insights that truly help 
you to see the bigger picture. And this is why  
I highly recommend that you subscribe to The 
Economist, which now offers an exclusive 35%  
discount for yes, money macro viewers. Whether you 
prefer their daily journalism in the Economist app  
or you are like me and really enjoy catching 
up on the global economy over the weekend with  
a nice cup of coffee and the print edition. 
You'll always stay on top of the latest global  
developments and of course support journalism 
that values factual information, integrity,  
and an independent point of view. So do not miss 
out. Click the link in description or top comment  
below or head over to economist.com/moneymicro 
to claim your exclusive 35% discount