美股播华尔街专利大家好我是米头君你们的美股探路者不知道你发现了没有最近的美股市场似乎进入了这么一种不可能跌模式不管发生什么事市场似乎都能很快消化然后就是拼了命的往上涨通胀抬头了美股涨就业下调了美股涨川普关税有出幺蛾子了美股还是涨 股市上涨自然是好事但是难免让投资者心里发慌这样的上涨真的合理吗背后是否隐藏着什么不为人知的危机呢正好最近市场上发生了很多大事各项关键的经济数据也都相继出炉了今天美投军就借这个机会给咱各位看官详细分析一下当前的美股市场相信你看完本期视频一定能够更加安心的投资 最近市场上最大的事莫过于本周三刚刚结束的美联储会议了本次会议美联储时隔一年首次降息了25个基点但要说最为重要的还真不是降息本身而是美联储主席鲍威尔在会上给市场的暗示 鲍威尔在记者会上表示这次降息是鉴于风险平衡的转变是一次风险管理式的降息要知道相同的话术他上一次说还是在一年前而那次之后每年出就连续降息了100个基点 之后当他被问到这三二十五个基点的降息是否能够真正实现风险管理的效果时鲍威尔又表示你必须得看整个路径也说利率会朝着中性方向持续前进这话就更明确了就差直接告诉你说降息会一直持续下去了 所以从本次美联储会议中我们能够得到的最关键的信号就是此次降息会是一连串降息的开始市场的反应也印证了这一点统计市场利率预期的网站CME显示市场预计今年剩下的两次会议会分别降息25个基点而26年全年还会再降息三次也就是说预计明年年底前利率总共会降125个基点到3%左右 Whether you will follow this path or not, the market is trading with the current expectation. And the current expectation is also very clear, that is, the drop will continue since then. So what does it mean for the stock market to continue to open up after the drop? 有人说那降息肯定是好事还真不一定从过去30年的历史来看降息对于股市来说是喜忧参半你比如说01年和08年的降息股市的表现就非常糟糕但是95年98年包括19年的降息市场的表现则相对良好那么为什么会出现这样的不同呢 其实最根本的原因在于降息背后的经济环境如果说降息时经济已经陷入了衰退降息是为了挽救崩溃的经济像01年和08年那样那股市的表现往往非常糟糕降息不仅无法快速扭转经济而且还会给市场释放出一个明确的危险信号印证环境已经非常糟糕 但如果经济本身还可以美联储只是预防性的降息那么就是市场最愿意看到的情况了后续的股市表现也往往高涨且持续比如说19年当时美国经济只是在中美贸易战的背景下承受了一定的压力还远没有到衰退美联储便开始预防式的降息这次市场的反应就相对比较积极 对于我们这次降息的影响我想核心问题就很明确了美国经济现在到底如何了呢未来有没有衰退的可能呢如果经济不至于陷入衰退那么此次降息对于股市来说就是非常积极的促进但如果说经济在降息的过程中衰退了那么再强的降息也不好使股市该崩还是得崩正好最近众多经济数据集中出炉我们就来系统性的分析一下美国经济现在到底如何了 要想了解美国经济的现状最好的办法那当然是来听美投军的分析了但如果你想要自己研究获取更为及时的资讯也可以找我们频道的老朋友富途睦睦他们除了支持股票交易外还提供重要的新闻关键经济数据等信息投资者还能查看热门产业链上的公司清单成型评级以及level2行情所有这些信息都是免费的你还能看到公司内部人事持仓的变化名人持股等各种信息对于咱华人投资者来说非常友好 At present, Mumu is actively embracing AI, the purpose is to support our investors better. For example, you can directly ask Mumu's AI assistant what is the core point of Powell's speech. He can give you a brilliant summary in a few seconds. You can also ask him about the core data of the company, he can also give you a basic interpretation. The characteristic of Mumu AI assistant is that the data that he enters are real and the depth of integration of Mumu's investment tools. As a platform under the name of the US stock listed company, Mumu supports an account to invest in various kinds of financial assets around the world. U.S. stocks, 7-cent, encrypted currency, and small white can be easily handled. The rate is also very cost-effective. Mumu is zero in the US stock and ETF transactions, and the contract fee for 7-cent is also zero. This time, the U.S. investment army also won a special cash-in benefit for you. Friends in the United States can open a bank account and enter the fund of $1,000 to obtain a U.S. investment bank account worth $199. In addition, you can also get a $1,000 worth of Enviya stock at the highest. You can also get a high return rate of 8.1% if you are not paid. If you are a friend of Giana, you can get a cash reward of 4600+ yuan at most. Now 1400+ yuan can also be obtained from METO PRO members, and there are various discounts such as free cash. I have put the details of the activity and the link in the top comment. If you are interested, please take action. 要想看清美国经济的现状最重要的数据就是美国的劳动力市场就业是一切经济的基础只要人们有工作他们就能消费能投资经济就有基本的爆炸在本次美联储会议上鲍威尔聊的最多的也是劳动力市场的情况然而现如今的劳动力市场却展现出了一副十分矛盾的景象却展现出了一副十分矛盾的景象 下图是今年以来大飞农新增就业的表现可以看到最近几个月新增就业呈现出了断崖式的下跌5月之后平均每个月就只有2.7万的新增就业远低于之前的12.3万这种幅度的新增就业放到美国历史上几乎每次都是衰退的前兆也难怪鲍威尔在记者会上大部分的时间都在讨论美国的就业问题 不过有另外一组数据却给出了完全相反的结论下图是美国初领失业金人数的变化和大飞浓反映的新增就业不同它反映的则是美国当前的失业情况可以看到如果抛去上个月因为德州干旱导致的季节性影响整体初领失业金人数一直都保持着相对稳定和新增就业的断崖式下跌形成了鲜明的对比 而从裁员比率上看也是如此该数据一直维持在1.1%的低位从这些数据的角度来看似乎就业又很强劲没有出现什么问题这种矛盾的现象放到整个美国历史上都是极为罕见的因为新增就业少企业不招人往往就会伴随着裁员同时发生 根据高盛的统计新增就业7万人是一个平衡点历史上当新增就业低于7万人时失业率就会开始逐渐失控了而现在的新增就业显然要更糟但是裁员潮却并没有出现企业虽然不招人了但也并没有裁人这是为什么呢 The recently announced production PMI index gave us a very good answer. The August PMI index rose to 53, the highest level in three years. Spring, river, water, warm flowers, and fresh branches are one of the most sensitive industries in the economy. Its performance can be seen as a very good economic front-line index. 在这份报告中,企业们表示,他们确实看到了非常旺盛的需求,订单也十分的充足但由于关税政策的不确定性,他们现在仍处于观望的状态不敢乱招人,也不敢扩大生产线而这种现象其实在整个美国企业中是一个非常普遍的现象 The answer is obvious. The reason why the labor market is not suffering from the conflict of not hiring people and not hiring people is because the companies are afraid of the impact of the tariffs and keep a close watch on the market rather than because of the economic pressure. This has actually been going on for a long time. We have mentioned it many times in previous analysis. And this time, the real change is that we first saw the companies start to improve their real needs. In fact, if you try, you will find that the uncertainty of the policy is temporary And now the uncertainty of the policy is still declining And as long as the demand is still there, the companies will start to expand sooner or later So the real key to the problem is whether the demand will really continue to exist Why has the economy been suppressed for so long and the demand can still rise? And if we want to understand the reason behind this, we need to understand the situation of consumerism, which occupies the largest part of the American economy. Where do you think the needs of companies come from? The most fundamental thing is the consumer, at least in the United States. Only when consumers continue to buy things and services, companies have orders and profits to expand. So what about the current US consumption? 要想搞懂这个问题最好的数据在我看来不是政府公布的一些消费数据而是美国最大银行美国银行的消费者报告他们的数据全面真实没有估算而且每个月都有及时可靠美银的数据显示8月份美国信用卡和借记卡的总支出同比增长了1.7%而7月份的同比增长也达到1.8% After the seasonal adjustment, the amount of spending has increased by 0.4% It has been increasing for the third month in a row In fact, from the bottom of the chart, we can see that in May Consumers are also like businesses Because of the tariffs, they started to pull in the wallet But they will be restored soon In the past three months, consumers have started buying again Even released the demand for the last two months of pressure It can be seen that the overall situation of consumers is still very strong So why is consumption so prosperous? Another picture in the US dollar report may give us an answer. This is the situation of the growth of the consumption of different rich families in the United States. You can see that the demand for prosperity comes mainly from high-income families. And low-income families still consume at the lowest point in three years. 根据穆迪的报告美国最富有的10%的家庭花了美国总消费的50%的钱而且这个比例还创出了历史新高所以你看这是富人们史无前例的高消费带动起了整个美国旺盛的需求 Why is the consumption of rich families so strong? Think about it carefully, it's actually quite abnormal In a high-wage environment, the economy has been under pressure Although companies have no survival pressure But they are also looking carefully Why do rich people have the courage to consume? In fact, the root cause is not the economy But the rise in asset prices And the core of this is the rise in US stocks 在美国最富裕的10%的家庭平均股票资产的配比达到了53%股票是他们财富规模的决定性因素而最近两年美股的大牛市想必咱各位也都有所耳闻了资产的升值本身并不会让富人兜里的钱更多但是资产升值会带来人们心理上的变化人们心理上觉得自己刚有钱了行动上也就会更愿意消费这种现象被称之为是财富效应 After understanding this, you will find that many phenomena that have been analyzed before can be said to be clear. Consumption was severely reduced in April and May, not only because of the single-star tariffs, but also because of the fall in the stock market at that time. And then the stock market quickly recovered, and many star companies' stocks quickly rose to the top. In this process, the financial effects of the rich people were quickly filled, and consumption was also restored. And the reason why the consumption of rich people is so high in the ratio is also related to the structure of the American family The richer the family, the higher the ratio of American assets, the greater the financial effect it brings On the contrary, the ratio of the assets of the poor is smaller, and the growth of the stock market has almost no effect on them Their consumption is more affected by the economic environment The current situation is that the economy is under high pressure, but the stock market is doing well. This increases the gap between the poor and the rich in consumption. So we see that the rich people are crazy about spending and keep the economy stable under the drag of asset growth. And the poor are forced to maintain their stock. 这种社会现象的好坏咱们暂且先放在一边作为投资者我们更应该关注的是这种现象是否可持续呢事实上富人带动消费本身并不是一个问题是想如果消费增长主要是由中低收入的群体通过信贷扩张来驱动的那才是真正值得担忧的 要想经济可持续的发展靠劫富济贫是肯定不行的甚至可能还会有反效果经济自然发展的规律就是富人带动穷人这本无可厚非真正重要的问题是支持富人消费的理由资产升值它真的能够持续吗这个才是本期视频要探讨的关键 [Music] I don't know if you have noticed We are hiding such a strange cycle in all the analysis in front The starting point of our analysis is How will the stock market develop under the long-term decline? We found that as long as the macro economy is not problematic Then it will have a positive impact on the stock market Will the macro economy have problems? We found that the employment market is still very strong People have jobs and there is no large-scale unemployment In this case, the economy is difficult to have problems Then why is the employment so strong? We found that the root cause is the demand for the future Companies have orders and profits Even if the companies are still in the business because of the tariffs, they are still strong and may resume at any time So why is the demand so high? We found that it was because the rich people motivated the overall consumption Why are the rich people so crazy about consumption? We found that it was because of the wealth effects brought by the growth of the stock market The logic chain is indeed a bit long, but you should also find that the whole logic has formed a barrier. Stock market growth leads to rich consumption, which leads to corporate demand, which leads to stable employment, which leads to economic growth, and economic growth supports the growth of the stock market. Thus, a self-reinforced positive cycle is formed. You will find that the growth of the stock market is the reason for the growth of the stock market and the result of the growth of the stock market This is a unique performance of the current Meigu at this unique stage I know it sounds a little bit too beautiful But the logic is really that high logic This also explains why many people feel that the Meigu can't fall down Because once this positive cycle is formed, it is not so easy to break it Of course, I'm not saying that to make you all blind and optimistic We know that this cycle is very important But more importantly, you have to know that this cycle is not a piece of cake There are so many key variables that can completely break this cycle And these are the key to our investors' future attention to the US market The first variable is the US-US trade. The beginning of our analysis is the large environment in which the US-US trade continues to decline. It is the precondition of the entire political cycle. Without it, the entire cycle will be unbreakable. That is to say, once the US-US trade, for whatever reason, cuts off the decline path, Then it will be a great blow to the US stock. The second variable is the policy risk we have mentioned many times in the last video. In the current situation, the tax issue is actively negotiating, so the risk is constantly decreasing. This is also a big trend that has not changed since April. But once Trump has done something wrong, the companies will be in a long time to look at it, and it will inevitably impact the employment, which will break this cycle. The third variable is also the most critical variable in my opinion, which is AI. Now, an important factor beyond the cycle of stock market growth is AI. AI has indeed driven a lot of corporate profits in the past two years, especially those of the whole stock market. This is an important reason for the growth of the US stock market. It's a bit like the jump start of this straight cycle. With the AI team, this straight cycle engine can continue to rotate. And once AI development stops, the whole straight cycle will also be broken. In my opinion, I think that these three major variables have not changed much in the short term. The path to the US-China reduction is relatively clear, and the risk of policy is also continuing to decline. For AI, I am very confident that the wheel of technology is rolling forward, which is difficult to prevent by external force. And the curve of technological development is often vertical, and in the eyes of most analysts, there is only a linear expectation. So I think the development of AI technology will probably be more than expected as long as it does not reach maturity So I'm not worried about the question of a stop in the development So in general, I personally think that in the long future, the cycle of this positive cycle will continue to rotate and become the most core logic of the growth of the US stock And all the possible variables that can break the cycle are relatively positive now So I am still very optimistic about the future US stock market Even though the stock market has risen nearly 30% since the low point in April I think there is still room for further growth And the dynamic is strong and relatively safe Finally, I have to make a supplement to this video All our analysis above is based on a relatively long-term judgment on the red coffin This is the bottom logic of the stock market But no matter how stable the flying wheel is, it is impossible to keep up Some short-term accidents will still cause fluctuations in the stock market But as long as it does not break this cycle In my opinion, it will be a relatively short-term risk I personally don't care too much At present, the most likely short-term accident is still the bank account In fact, the CPI data of the past two months can't be calculated The bank account is still a certain age This is not yet at the point of preventing the Fed from decreasing On the other hand, the effect of the tariff is not yet fully reflected Once the tariff effect is released It may also bring a certain accident in the data But I have analyzed this point on the channel many times The bank account caused by the tariff is relatively short I don't think it will completely break the bottom logic of the US stock Okay, about the U.S. market, let's talk to you today I will do a fixed analysis of such a red coffin market every month If you like this analysis, welcome to subscribe to this channel I have also put some related video links to this video in the video summary area Including the concept of red coffin knowledge and the opportunity of each share Thank you for watching and welcome to subscribe If you want to see more in-depth analysis of the US stock, you are also welcome to come to my MitoPro. MitoPro is a platform I created for Chinese US investors. In MitoPro, I will do a comprehensive basic analysis of all stocks, and track the changes in their basic surface. In addition, I will share the monthly red-card reports and daily news summary of each stock opportunity regularly. For new investors, we also provide a whole system of investment teaching. In addition to watching content, you can also share investment income and investment opportunities with thousands of members. Thanks for watching, welcome to subscribe to the new user 7 days free of charge, come and experience it. If you like the video of the US investment army, don't forget to like it, follow and forward it. Thank you.