Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
This video
Let's talk
How to use AI for learning and self-exploration
In the previous episode
We talked about
Dialogue is the essence of all learning
Because of learning
It is not a
Thinking limited to the individual
To achieve a true understanding of things
Always need to build on
In dialogue and interaction with others
This other should have two conditions:
First, he can feedback our signals in a timely manner.
Rather than swallowing or not responding
Second, he can accurately
Feedback our signals without distortion
Able to tune in and resonate with us
At the end of the last video
We also briefly mentioned
The importance of learning to harness AI
For the purpose of learning and reading
I think
The importance of this cannot be overemphasized.
So this video
Let’s discuss this in detail.
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
first
The AI ​​I am talking about here mainly refers to ChatGPT
And I suggest that if you have the conditions
Just open a membership
Compared to the value it provides
Price: $20 per month
It can be said to be very cost-effective
At the end of the last episode, we mentioned
Current large language models
Essentially a tool for generating text based on probability statistics
If you ask it for specific facts and figures
It might make up a plausible
But the content does not actually exist
This is indeed a disadvantage.
So we must be clear about the facts listed by AI
Verify and authenticate
But if you provide a certain text,
Material or argument
and requires it to analyze, integrate, refine, compare, and restate
Its performance is still very good
This is exactly what conversational learning requires.
Compared to an authority that provides certain knowledge
We need a friendly, logical
And friends who can help us think
Here
A friendly atmosphere may be more important
As we said before
AI does not have real human emotions
It can never replace the relationship between people.
Authentic acceptance and connection
Only humans can do this.
But this is only in an ideal situation
Humans have a very high capacity for acceptance
But the average level of interpersonal relationships in reality
But it is very low
For many people
This real and deep connection
Never received it from anyone else
Due to scarcity and pressure
Real people
Always trapped in various anxieties and pains
Most people don't have the spare minds and abilities
To see each other
To carry out such a complex mental activity
We build relationships
More to face the reality
Therefore, the basis of our real interpersonal relationships
It's largely functional
Rather than liquidity
This is often mixed with the desire for power,
Projecting fear and other complex factors
The result is in the relationship
Often there is almost no space
Leave it to us to show our true selves
for example
Many people have this experience
When I talk to my parents on the phone
Parents always ask "Have you eaten yet?"
“Do you feel cold?”
Or it could be "Don't be too tired recently, save more money"
When you try to explore some
When spiritual topics exceed physical needs
For example, you recently have a new opinion about someone
You recently read an article
Produced some thoughts
You are dissatisfied with your job
Parents are either silent
Or just remind you not to think too much.
Working hard is the most important thing
Once the client touches upon the question of the meaning of life
It's like speaking a language that the other person doesn't understand.
Over time
Children also learn to hide and suppress their thoughts
Because I know I won't get a response
For example
When you and a
Good friends who used to go out for dinner and shopping together every day
Share some of your thoughts
Friends may think you think too much.
Looks very sad
Are you having trouble?
Or she will suggest you to travel and relax.
etc.
Although the original intention is good
But such friendship
It is indeed impossible to accommodate
The client's deeper inner experience
For example
A girl
Try talking to your boyfriend about your past trauma
My boyfriend might say: Don’t always live in the past.
Learn to let go
If you can't learn to look forward
Will stop moving forward
This is all very common.
A lot of intimacy
Contains a lot of comfort and care
But this comfort does not include spiritual understanding
And more
I hope the other party can recover quickly and be stable and normal.
That is to say, the development and fluidity of our spirit
Considered an outlier that needs to be addressed
Instead of understanding its structure first
Relationships
Always need us
Maintaining certain psychological structures and functions
There's nothing wrong with this in itself.
However, the development of a person's spirit
It is often not a linear accumulation process
It is based on the reconstruction of old psychological functions.
Before creating new features
A person may be in a situation that seems unusual.
Some kind of depression, fragility and incompetence
This is similar to
In the two videos on March 15 and 16,
The state described
In this period of transformation and transition
You need a
A space that can contain our changes and complexity
AI can, to a certain extent,
Filling such a gap
It doesn't give you an emotional response.
But it can always listen to you.
I will never tire of talking to you.
Explore and sort
This is also a value that is difficult for humans to replace.
For example
We can write a diary by talking to AI
Share your emotional thoughts
Compared with the traditional way of writing a diary
This can be said to be a huge breakthrough
First write
It is a core means of self-exploration.
When a person's true thoughts
When expressed through words
He also puts scattered experiences, emotions, thoughts
Organized into a narrative
The process of this organization
It means understanding and integration
Of course, this process lacks feedback and response.
Although AI is not a living person
But it can always be there
And because it is not human
We can also express without hesitation
Most importantly
We can personalize the way AI responds
For example
We put the mood changes, confusion,
Write down your interpersonal interactions
Describe the external and internal details as specifically as possible
And some subtleties
Then we can ask AI to "act with sincerity,
The principles of empathy and unconditional positive regard
Respond to my expression
then
We can upload a book by a psychologist
Or copy some chapters from a book
Ask AI to learn from the perspective of this text
Let me analyze my experience
For example, I can tell the AI
Rogers
View my words from the perspective of "Personal Formation Theory"
Or please use Winnicott's theory
To understand my vague feelings."
Or, "Please use Jung
This passage is used to analyze my dream."
etc.
Why must we provide the theories and texts?
In addition to what we just said
AI may make this up.
The more important reason is
AI’s explanatory style is empty and open
It requires you to give it a path to understand in advance
AI does not have its own intuition and inclinations like humans
Its full ability to understand
They are all fed from existing languages.
Many people say that AI answers are often comprehensive.
But a closer look reveals that it is conservative and mediocre, too politically correct
Lack of spirituality and insight
This is certainly true.
Because it started
Always take the greatest common divisor and bottom line of the crowd
Default value
But this is not unchangeable
We can constantly provide feedback, make corrections and refine
Make it a more refined
and personalized tools
Others say
Widespread use of AI
Make it empty
Shoddy articles are everywhere
Greatly increased the proliferation of low-quality information
I strongly disagree with this statement
Of course, this phenomenon does exist.
We can now see a lot of content written by AI
Quoting classics, citing references, and covering all aspects
But it lacks spirituality
Originally, a person wrote an article like this
Still quite hard work
Now it has become extremely cheap
AI does make “low-cost imitation” easy
But that's because
Some people's thinking is empty and mediocre
As McLuhan said
Media is an extension of man
AI itself does not create emptiness and mediocrity
It just amplifies what already exists.
AI is just an accelerator, amplifier, and amplifier
It makes thoughtful people think more efficiently
Saying AI destroys human thinking ability
Makes people lazy to think
That's like saying a telescope ruins your vision.
Just like calculators destroy people's mental arithmetic ability
although
AI gives many people the illusion that they are very knowledgeable
However, it only lowers the threshold for information organization
But it also highlights the scarcity of insight
Insight is not equal to information
Many people
When looking at human psychology and social phenomena
Excessive reliance on data and mathematical tools
A humanities and social sciences paper
The more complex the mathematical model used,
The more advanced the technology
The deeper the thought, the
However, in terms of social phenomena
Mathematics or Technology
Just a way to verify and confirm insights
It is not a substitute for insight.
Can’t generate insights
If a person's thinking is superficial
Then no matter how many models are used and how many literatures are cited,
Just showing off
Real insight
Often comes from a person's real life experience
His moral dilemma
His skepticism about values
His physical sensations, his passions, desires, and anxieties
When a person experiences these emotions
To fully explore and reveal
He will become more and more sensitive.
Because people need to understand others and society
Essentially, we can only rely on putting ourselves in others' shoes.
By studying and observing one's own heart
To speculate on others
because
We cannot directly perceive what others are thinking.
I can only use my own mental process as a template
To analogize, simulate, and deduce the psychological state of others
The more complex your inner emotional experience is
The more accurately you can imagine
Other people’s situations and attitudes
In a society where information is exploding but understanding is scarce
Knowledge is not what is scarce
Rather, it is a personality structure with complex inner experiences.
This is the more valuable use of AI
That helps us dig inward.
To see and understand your own experience
for example
When we have conflicts and disagreements with friends
In anxiety and anger
We may prioritize the most intense forms of conflict
Ignoring your own emotional experiences
Inability to organize effective thinking
So
We can try
Recount the entire dispute to the AI
And ask it to stand on my side
Understand why I feel this way
And help me find some
Evidence and reasons to support my feelings
We can also ask AI
Use a non-moral language
Reorganize events
This replay process
Rather than focusing on who is right or wrong
To be more valuable
For example
When we face some dilemmas
For example, whether to resign
Whether to continue a relationship
We can let AI simulate a conversation between two selves
For example, I want to take risks.
One is me who wants stability
We can explore the meaning of security and adventure
And ask AI to start from Winnicott's concept of false self
To ask and analyze
Which option is closer to your real idea?
certainly
This conversation process cannot be perfect
But we need to constantly guide and correct
In short, we should not regard it as
A correct answer provider
It is a tool that needs to be polished by us
When we give feedback to artificial intelligence
More precise and personalized
Then the AI ​​feedback will be of higher quality
More in line with our needs
In addition to the above applications
Another important role of AI
It helps us read and learn
This is for Chinese education.
Extra meaningful
As we mentioned in last year’s
What the video on mathematics education says
Chinese teachers are used to
Explain the content of the subject directly
For example, when it comes to mathematics
It is simply to talk about its theorems and definitions
In the name of rigor and precision
There's nothing wrong with this though
But it lacks aura and vivid feeling
Lack of interdisciplinary applications and connections
Students don't know
How do these mathematical theorems apply to engineering?
It is even more difficult to connect with real life
This violates a simple principle.
It is to apply what you have learned
The more we feel
Knowledge can be connected to our life experience
Relationship with ourselves
The more we can stimulate interest in learning
This is the self-reference effect
self-reference effect
In this video on November 30 last year,
The default mode network (DMN) of the brain
This is a deeper
and integrated processing mode
One of its core functions is to
Dealing with self-related thoughts
Self-centered
Integrate seemingly unrelated information
Generate new ideas and concepts
When a person
When processing information that is more relevant to the self
The brain is highly activated
This model is not a mechanical recitation
Incorporating information into the process of “who am I”
A piece of knowledge that is "related" to me
Not just “learnable”
But "worth learning"
Because it will be emotionally marked
Become part of your self-concept
The important role of AI
It is precisely what helps us to transform abstract academic knowledge into
Transformed into an experiential and perceptible structure of understanding
We can send some academic materials to AI at any time
And ask AI to put these concepts
Combined with my life experience
For example, when it comes to opportunity cost in economics
Many people in economics classes
Just memorize its definition
But I never felt that it had anything to do with my life.
But if one directs AI to use this concept
To analyze yourself
The dilemma of career path
It has more emotional color
And we will remember it firmly
For example, we read some literary works
I often find it difficult to read
Because we lack understanding of the background of that era
Lack of sensory experience
AI can become an imaginary "era translator"
It can be adapted to our modern situation
Simulate people living in that era
Under that culture, class, material conditions, social rules
Possible feelings and attitudes
This helps us deepen our understanding of literary characters.
and narrative understanding
Without AI
Such complex and diverse learning needs
Probably need a very large team of consultants
To be satisfied
Considering this huge potential
Even though AI still has many flaws and imperfections
But learn to use AI to solve problems creatively
The importance of this cannot be overemphasized.
That's all for today's video
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will put this video on
In this list: Psychology and Education
at the same time
I also recommend everyone to watch
My other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!