I'm Brad Stulberg. I'm author of The 
Way of Excellence, and I'm on faculty  
at the University of Michigan. Today on 
Big Think, we're going to tackle three  
big ideas on excellence. The first is what 
excellence actually is and how excellence  
is different from so many of the common 
imposters to excellence. The second are  
barriers and pitfalls that are very common on 
the path toward excellence. And then the third  
are going to be essential factors to help in 
the pursuit of genuine heartfelt excellence.
There can be this thought that what excellence is, 
is waking up at 4 a.m., having a 47-step routine,  
taking three cold plunges, having nine 
supplements, tracking your sleep and your  
heart rate variability, and telling all your 
friends about how great you are. But that's not  
real excellence. That is elaborate kabuki that 
is masquerading as the real thing. Simply put,  
excellence is involved engagement in something 
worthwhile that aligns with your values. That  
simple. Involved engagement with something 
worthwhile that aligns with your values.
We often assume that it has to do with 
what we are going to achieve. But genuine,  
heartfelt excellence, it's actually less 
about getting to the top of the mountain  
and more about the person that you become 
on the sides. So you could have very strong  
involved engagement at tapping a white wall, but 
that probably wouldn't align with your values.  
That wouldn't be excellence. That would just 
be tapping a white wall. That would be very  
different than saying, I want to become a 
great physician because I value intellect.
I value contribution. I value helping people, 
so on and so forth. So we are working toward  
running a marathon. We are working toward 
starting a company. We are working toward  
graduating from medical school. We are 
working toward publishing our first book.
And while all that's true, the things that we 
work on and the way in which we work on them  
also work on us. So we might be working on the 
marathon, but the marathon is working on us. We  
might be working on writing a book, but the 
process of writing a book is shaping us. We  
learn about doing hard things. We learn about 
overcoming setbacks. We learn about resilience.
We learn about the power of 
consistency, of discipline,  
of self-kindness. So the big goals that 
we set, the mountains that we climb,  
they shape our character along the way. And 
if we're climbing mountains, if we're setting  
goals that are out of alignment with our values, 
we're not shaping our character in a way that is  
concordant with who we want to be. So when 
we connect this kind of involved engagement,  
this deep caring with something that aligns 
with our personal values, we gain a sense of  
mastery and mattering. Mastery is competence. 
It is making concrete, tangible progress.
That is a very satisfying feeling. And mattering 
is a sense that we belong and that there is more  
to life than our own teeny little ego. We are 
a part of something bigger. Most people have  
somewhere between three and five core values. 
And example values are things like mastery,  
craft, integrity, community, spirituality, 
discipline, intellect, wisdom, kindness,  
creativity. These are just a few of 
truly hundreds of example values.
And when we have our values, when we select 
our values, and there's a whole process for  
how to do this in the book, you want to not just 
have words on a poster on the wall that are empty  
and meaningless. You really need to define your 
values. If one of your values is health, what does  
health mean to you? How do you practice health? 
And from that value, you essentially want to say,  
what can I do day in, day out, week in, week out 
to live in alignment with this value? And when you  
have your core values, when you select goals, 
you can check those goals against your values.
And you can say, if I pursue this goal, 
will the process of pursuing this goal  
allow me to live in alignment with my 
values? If you are someone who values  
health and you choose a goal that is going to 
make you work 22 hours a day and never sleep,  
that's going to be pretty discordant with your 
value of health. So these values are a really  
good way to make sure that what you're doing on 
the side of the mountain is helping you become  
the person that you want to be versus just 
staring at the peak and thinking about what  
it might feel like if or when you get there. I 
think that quality is, to me, the overarching  
umbrella over all of this. Robert Persig wrote 
Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance in  
1974. And at the center of that book is this term 
quality, which Persig stylized with a capital Q.
And Persig's quality was the relationship 
between an actor and his or her act. And  
when that relationship was 
so close, was so intimate,  
that the subject and object ceased to exist. 
So it's no longer Rachel playing basketball.  
Basketball is just happening. It's no longer 
Joe on the guitar. Music is just being made.
And what Persig argued in this book is that 
quality really drives all of evolution. Persig's  
quality very much tracks with what modern 
evolutionary biologists call homeostatic  
upregulation. And homeostatic upregulation is 
this innate, deeply hardwired drive of all living  
species to persist and to flourish. And you can 
observe homeostatic upregulation in the earliest  
forms of life that we know. Bacteria, they have no 
brain, they have no cognition, they don't think,  
they have no nervous system. Yet bacteria sense 
and respond, this is the term that scientists use,  
they sense and respond their way toward 
environments that are conducive to their  
survival and away from environments that are 
not, that are ill-conducive to their survival.
And again, they had no cognition. There was 
no consciousness. Yet these early organisms,  
they just innately knew how to move towards 
conditions that were right for them to flourish,  
which for a multi-celled organism 
simply meant to survive. From those  
multicellular organisms grew more 
complex organisms. We have nervous  
systems, still all precognitive before any 
thinking. Species felt their way forward.
We navigated the world using feelings. Only more 
recently do we have cognition. Do we have the  
ability to think complex thoughts? And we can use 
those complex thoughts in tandem with our feelings  
to drive us towards flourishing, but it's that 
innate drive that is all of us, that homeostatic  
upregulation to move towards conditions that 
support flourishing. And for the longest time,  
Flourishing simply meant survive and survive to an 
age when you can procreate, when you can pass on  
your DNA, right? Those are the two evolutionary 
imperatives, survive and pass on your DNA.
But we humans, we outlive that survival age. 
There's so much more to finding meaning and  
satisfaction in life than surviving and 
procreating. So it's that same drive,  
that same homeostatic upregulation that 
leads us to admire and try to pursue  
great athletic feats or great musical 
feats or to contribute or to become a  
better leader or a better parent. But we all 
have this innate drive to flourish, to grow,  
and to aspire toward excellence. Situated 
cognition was a term coined by Richard Sennett,  
who is a sociologist that studied craftspeople. 
And what he observed in Craftspeople is that  
when they are doing their best work and when 
they're feeling most satisfied and fulfilled,  
they are very much not thinking with their head, 
but they're thinking with their entire being.
So they're having this mind-body relationship as 
they build a table or as they make a sculpture.  
And Sennett called it situated cognition 
because as you are performing your activity,  
as you're performing your craft, you're situated 
in yourself and you feel at home and situated in  
the world. So you're very much feeling your way 
forward. You're using your entire nervous system,  
not just your mind, to create your 
work. And at the zenith of excellence,  
we get situated cognition. So an 
example, for instance, is me as a writer.
When I first started writing, I did not go to 
journalism school. I had no formal training.  
I didn't know what I didn't know. I needed 
to sit with the blue book of grammar and  
all types of style guides and learn. 
And then as I progressed as a writer,  
I had to very much effortfully try 
to write. I would get to a break in  
a sentence and I would think through, should 
this take a semicolon, an em dash, a period?
Should this be offset with parentheses? So on and 
so forth. It was a very effortful experience of  
writing. And only after I'd been writing for 10 
years could I leave all that behind and not have  
to think about what edits made sense, not had 
to think about rules, but rather feel my way to  
good turns of phrases and good sentences. 
Situated cognition is a close cousin or  
perhaps even a sister or a brother of unconscious 
competence. There are four phases of competence.
Unconscious incompetence. Conscious incompetence, 
conscious competence, and unconscious competence.  
So unconscious incompetence is when you don't 
know that you don't know what you're doing.  
And at this phase of progress, you need 
to read books, you need to study video,  
you need to hire a coach, you need somebody to 
help you understand your activity, your craft.  
The next phase is conscious incompetence. So 
here we know that we don't know what we're doing.
So we at least have a heuristic or a schema for 
how it should be done, whether it's shooting a  
basketball or playing the violin or building 
a table or leading a team. And we know that  
we're not doing it. So we're very aware of what 
right is. And we're also aware that we're not yet  
there. The third phase is conscious competence. 
So this is when we know that we're doing it right.
We are effortfully trying. We are using 
the heart rate monitor. We're following  
the checklist. We are thinking 
our way to a really proficient  
performance. And at the top of the ladder 
is unconscious competence. And this is when  
we leave all of that effortful thinking and 
tracking and measurement and trying behind.
And we enter the zone and we let our feelings 
guide us to our greatest performances. In masters  
of craft, they progress through these four 
phases of competence extremely predictably,  
but they also cycle through them. So nobody stays 
at unconscious competence. So what masters of  
craft do is they understand when they need to be 
in the conscious competence phase of the ladder,  
where they actually need to effortfully try, 
where they need to go back to the drawing board,  
where they need to learn. But then they also have 
the courage to let go of that thinking and And  
when they're going to have a magical day, 
they trust the magic and they ride that wave.  
In a world that feels increasingly distracted, 
in which people often feel alienated from their  
activities, in some cases alienated from 
their own lives, having an orientation  
or a philosophy of life that centers around 
excellence, it's a great source of intimacy.
intimacy with a craft and intimacy with 
yourself. So it really helps connect you  
to what you're doing. And again, connect 
you to yourself. It's the opposite of  
alienation. It's the opposite of going through 
the motions. So, excellence is not perfectionism.
It's often confused with perfectionism, 
trying to do everything incredibly always,  
trying to get all the gold stars. 
Excellence is not obsession,  
being controlled by your pursuit. Excellence is 
not happiness. Happiness is often a byproduct  
of the pursuit of excellence, 
but it is not a hedonic pursuit.  
Excellence is not optimization. It is not trying 
to turn yourself into a machine or to a robot.
Excellence is actually a very human and humane 
pursuit. And finally, excellence is not flow.  
While flow can be a part of excellence, 
excellence also encompasses all that happens  
before those flow states and everything that 
comes after. Excellence includes all of that.  
I mentioned earlier that we have this hard 
wiring to move towards what feels right to  
flourish. And what has happened in the modern 
world is there are all of these temptations,  
distractions that feel really good in the 
short term, but leave us wanting and empty  
and in some cases quite frustrated and that are 
not concordant with our values in the long term.
So I've identified six barriers to the pursuit 
of excellence. There's this term disevolution  
that was coined by the evolutionary 
scientist Daniel Lieberman. And it  
essentially says that our modern environment has 
all of these traps that we didn't evolve for. So  
a prime example of disevolution is fast food. So, 
humans for the longest time lived in scarcity,  
and if a caveman came across a Krispy Kreme, 
the caveman would eat all the donuts. But  
now we live in times of abundance, but that 
hardwiring to crave the donuts hasn't gone away.
So we are dis-evolved for an environment that 
has donuts. hence a problem with obesity that  
is in so many developed countries. Another 
source of disevolution is confusing social  
media with genuine community, right? We long, 
we're a social species, we long for community,  
we long for connection, and now we are fed 
connection in these little 10-second bursts  
of external validation, of likes, of comments, 
of retweets. So of course that feels good when  
we're getting it, but that's nothing like having 
an actual relationship with another human being.  
The difference between a Pornhub and actually 
having an intimate relationship with a partner.
The former is really easy. There's 
no friction. It can feel very good,  
but it doesn't have the fulfillment 
and the satisfaction of the latter.  
And when it comes to more conventional ways to 
think about excellence, I think that there is  
standing on the sidelines and constantly being an 
observer of other people doing something and kind  
of almost feeling good like as a passive observer. 
I'm getting to watch all these people do all this  
cool stuff. And that feels good in the moment, 
but you're not actually stepping into the arena.
You're not putting yourself out there. So the 
biggest trap is when this hardwiring to feel  
good gets co-opted by things that feel really 
good in the short term. But in the long term,  
they don't align with our values and they 
often leave us feeling worse off. Another  
trap to excellence is optimization culture. 
So it is definitely true that we live in this  
environment that often preys on our hardwiring 
for connection and for satisfaction with these  
kind of short-term things that feel really good, 
but as I mentioned, that leave us in the long-term  
wanting. There's a kind of equal and opposite 
reaction to this, which is optimization culture,  
which essentially says, I'm going to 
try to control everything about my life.
I'm going to try to control not 
only how long I sleep every night,  
but how long I'm in REM sleep. I'm going to 
count and monitor every single calorie that  
I eat. I'm going to measure literally the space 
between heartbeats. I'm going to track everything  
about my life. And in doing so, we risk turning 
ourselves into robots and And as I mentioned,  
excellence, it's deeply human. So much 
of excellence is a felt experience.
And if we over-optimize our life, then we never 
get to tap into that felt experience that is so  
satisfying. Now, to be clear, there is nothing 
wrong with using devices that help you monitor  
certain things. There's nothing wrong with using 
a sleep tracker or a device that helps you count  
how many steps you're taking. These things 
can be really integral to behavior change.  
But when we let these devices control us instead 
of controlling them, and when we build an entire  
life around row optimization, it sucks the feeling 
out of life. It sucks the humanity out of life.
It sucks the joy out of life. And we struggle to 
have our best performances. The last thing about  
optimization is it can make us really fragile. So 
I want to tell the story of the golfer JJ Spahn,  
who won the most recent US Open. And the 
night before he won the U.S. Open, J.J.
Spahn's young child was up at 2 a.m. 
vomiting. Really sick. And J.J. Spahn  
was staying in a hotel room with his young 
child and his wife, and his wife needed to  
stay home with his kid, so he went to CVS, 
the only 24-hour drugstore that was open,  
at 3 in the morning, and he was up 
the rest of the night. Now, if J.J.
Spahn would have been wearing a recovery device 
because he was so concerned with optimizing his  
performance, it would have told him, your recovery 
score is zero, you didn't sleep, you should stay  
home. J.J. Spahn won the U.S. Open the next day. 
So when we become too focused on all of these  
optimization tools, it just makes us fragile. We 
have to think that everything needs to be going a  
certain way or everything needs to be perfect or 
we always need to feel our best to perform well.
But that's utter nonsense, right? Performance, for 
all that we know about the science of performance,  
there is so much that we don't know. 
And when we over-optimize our lives,  
we shortchange ourselves. We don't give ourselves 
a chance. And it doesn't account for the messiness  
of life. Flow is a term that was coined by the 
psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, and it is  
the experience of being completely immersed in 
what you're doing, being totally in the zone.
And Flow states can be absolutely remarkable. They 
can be the stuff of meaning in life. If you are in  
a flow state playing an instrument or coaching a 
team or in a relationship with someone or doing  
math, right? These are such great experiences. 
We yearn for these experiences. However,  
you can also be in a flow state scrolling Twitter 
and You can be in a flow state gambling, right?
These are other experiences where we lose 
our sense of self. Our perception of time  
and space becomes warped. They have the 
hallmarks of flow. Like these things can  
light you up. They can lead to that sense 
of aliveness, but it's a pseudo aliveness.  
It's a kind of aliveness that is 
not connected with your values.
And again, that over the long haul 
often leads you feeling worse. The  
psychologist and philosopher David Pizarro 
coined this term shitty flow to describe  
these experiences where we're in flow, 
but it's shitty. Like at the end of it,  
we wish that we weren't in flow. And what Pizarro 
says is that so often in the modern world,  
we mistake good, genuine flow for shitty flow. 
And then we wonder why we feel so crappy.  
So What separates excellence from flow, one 
thing that separates excellence from flow,  
the first big thing that separates excellence 
from flow is that flow is values neutral.
You can be in flow doing something completely 
aligned with your values and it can be wonderful,  
but you can also be in flow doing something 
that is very discordant with one's values. The  
second big difference between excellence 
in flow is that flow happens in acute  
moments. Maybe you get into the zone for 
a couple of seconds, a couple of minutes,  
a couple of days. If you're lucky, you 
can enter the slipstream for a week or  
two. But nobody stays in flow forever. 
Excellence is so much broader than flow.
Excellence includes all of the things that 
happen before flow, all of the effortful trying,  
all of the fundamentals, all of the unconscious 
incompetence and conscious incompetence and  
conscious competence that leads to a flow state. 
And then it also includes what happens after the  
flow state, how we come down from those 
great experiences. Because there is this  
inherent risk of becoming addicted to flow and 
constantly chasing flow and thinking that in  
order to have a good life, in order to perform 
well, you always have to be in a flow state.  
But that's nonsense. It doesn't work like that. 
By definition, flow states are extraordinary.
Excellence is also concerned with what you do 
on your ordinary days. It's about making your  
average a little bit better, too. So good flow... 
is a part of excellence, but it's a small part of  
excellence. Excellence includes everything that 
happens before and after it. And excellence,  
by definition, cannot be shitty flow because 
it's got to be in alignment with one's values.
So I think of flow as a small component 
of excellence and excellence is a much  
broader concept and broader term to build a 
life around. A telltale sign of shitty flow  
is when you come out of the zone, you feel 
kind of gross, right? or you feel anxious,  
or you feel regret. So when you're 
in the zone rage scrolling on X,  
you feel really good. Like you just get 
warped in, right? You get sucked in.
And maybe it's not good, but like you're just, 
you're immersed. But when two hours has passed  
and you've just been rage scrolling and you come 
out of that, you tend to feel restless, impatient,  
like you need a hot shower, aggravated, If that 
was in alignment with your values, you wouldn't  
feel that way. You'd feel satisfied and fulfilled. 
So one of the best ways to figure out if you're  
spending time in shitty flow is to ask yourself 
not how you feel during the experience, but how  
you feel after. And if you feel exhausted and like 
you were just on a bender, it's probably shitty  
flow. If you feel exhausted but fulfilled and 
satisfied, it's probably the good kind of flow.
There's two kinds of burnout. There's the 
kind of burnout that most people talk about,  
which is burning out from working too hard,  
doing 90-hour weeks back to back to back. It 
doesn't matter what you're doing. Eventually,  
you're going to burn out. You're going to suffer 
from loss of motivation and fatigue and perhaps  
injury and illness. But there's another kind 
of burnout that we don't talk about too much.
And this is the term that I coined in the 
book, zombie burnout. And zombie burnout  
doesn't come from doing too much. It comes 
from not doing enough of what lights you up.  
So you could only be working 30 hours a week, but 
if you're just kind of going through the motions,  
if you're a passive observer to life, if 
you don't really care deeply about anything,  
you can start to feel all the signs of burnout. 
You can feel exhausted, you can feel apathetic,  
you can feel dread, even though you're not working 
very hard. If your life has no meaningful friction  
in it, if you don't have to ever overcome 
challenge, that can zap the feeling out of you.
And I called it zombie burnout because 
it's this kind of numbed out sensation  
of going through the motions that on the one 
hand, you're not really working very hard,  
but on the other hand, you're really exhausted. 
And I think that, well, over the last decade,  
there was so much talk about conventional burnout 
and And conventional burnout is certainly still  
a problem for some people. I think that a lot 
of people actually suffer from zombie burnout.  
Let's take a tale of two people and assume 
that they're both working 40 hours a week.  
And one person is pretty into their work. They're 
focusing intently, they're challenging themselves,  
and they're working in a way that 
is aligned with their values.
The other person working a 40-hour week 
is just totally going through the motions,  
right? Doesn't really give a crap about what 
they're doing. The first person might absolutely  
flourish and the second person might feel burnout 
even though they're both working 40 hours a week.  
So I just think that when we only think about 
burnout in terms of the quantity of what we're  
doing, we really miss the boat. We also have to 
think about the quality of what we're doing. And  
as I mentioned earlier, when you have excellence, 
you're filled with the satisfaction and aliveness  
and intimacy towards your own life, toward 
the activities that you're engaged in.
And to me, excellence is the ultimate antidote, 
the pursuit of excellence. The aspiration toward  
excellence is the ultimate antidote to zombie 
burnout. Because if zombie burnout is just kind of  
passively going through the motions and smoothing 
your life over and numbing yourself to death,  
the pursuit of excellence is pouring yourself 
into things that align with your values and  
make you tick. I think that there's a couple of 
small shifts that can help thwart zombie burnout.  
The first is in a traditional workplace, if you 
work a job, to ask yourself, can you job craft?  
Can you massage what you're doing day in and 
day out to be a little bit more aligned with  
your values, to be a little bit more in 
touch with the things that you care about?
Because sometimes we just have boring jobs, 
right? And we work to pay the bills. We're  
not passionate about our work. And we fill out 
spreadsheets all day, whatever it might be,  
but we make good money and we go home. And in 
those instances, I still think generally there are  
a couple small levers that one can pull to bring 
a little bit more engagement and a little bit  
more interest into their work. However, a lot of 
people say, you know, Brad, you're very fortunate.
You get to pursue this craft. You're a 
writer. I just work to pay the bills.  
I want to send my kids to school. I want 
to pay my mortgage. And to that person,  
what I would say is, well, what 
are you doing in your leisure time?
And if your leisure time is very passive, if 
it's passive consumption, and if it's not active,  
if you're not stepping into the arena, 
if you're not challenging yourself,  
then I would say that actually what's going 
to make you feel less exhausted is is trying  
harder in exerting effort towards things that 
you find meaningful. So replacing the passive  
consumption of mind-numbing television 
with reading a book, a lot more active,  
a lot more engaging. Even better, train 
for a marathon, learn an instrument,  
go garden. In my own life, I pursue excellence 
in three primary domains. The first is as a  
husband and a father. The second is as a 
craftsperson, and my craft is as a writer.
And then the third is in my leisure time 
in a hobby, which for me is powerlifting,  
in particular of a deadlift, which is just 
lifting a bunch of weight from the ground  
up to your waist. It's a very simple 
movement. And I got into deadlifting  
about seven years ago because I love the 
objectivity and the concrete nature of it,  
right? Writing can be very subjective. Whether or 
not someone likes a book is completely outside of  
my control. It depends on what's going on 
in their own life and in their own mind.
But a deadlift, it's just lifting weight. And 
like the bar doesn't lie. You either get better  
or you don't. So the tangibility of it in the 
feedback loop is really satisfying for me. Now,  
you might be thinking that spending 
all this time just lifting weight from  
the ground to your hips is kind of futile 
and meaningless. But as I stated earlier,  
the goals that we work on also work on us.
So I'm never going to win anything in deadlifting. 
I'm not that good. However, what deadlifting  
does for me is it teaches me about doing 
hard things, about embracing discomfort,  
about vulnerability, about failure, about 
commitment, about discipline, about patience,  
about consistency, about the power of coaching 
and mentorship and community and showing up in  
all of these other things that don't just make me 
a better deadlifter, but make me a better person.  
There's a misconception that excellence can 
only happen in one's career, but you can aspire  
toward excellence and get all the benefits in 
hobbies and leisure time. And in some ways,  
it's actually easier because you have full 
agency. I think zombie burnout happens when  
you have this perfect mix of a job that you don't 
really care about and you're going through the  
motions and then leisure time where you're just 
kind of floating through life with a passivity.
Another barrier to excellence is what I call the 
happiness industrial complex. And the happiness  
industrial complex says that the whole point of 
life is to be happy and that we should just chase  
happiness. However, happiness is just like any 
other emotion. It comes and it goes. And happiness  
is never the result of aiming for happiness. 
It's always a byproduct of doing something else.
And I think that sometimes what happens is when we 
think that we should always be happy all the time,  
we put all this pressure on ourselves and we judge 
ourselves when we're not happy. But the truth is,  
life is full of discomfort, of challenge, 
of suffering, of heartbreak. And in my  
last decade plus of reporting, individuals 
who really live good lives, who flourish,  
they experience happiness, but they don't chase 
happiness. What they chase is satisfaction,  
meaning, and fulfillment. In my own life, 
the things that make me feel most alive,  
most situated in the world, when I'm 
writing, When I'm in the gym deadlifting,  
when I'm coaching my son's basketball games. If 
you were to ask me, in those moments, am I happy?
The answer would undoubtedly be no. When I'm 
working hard on a manuscript, I wouldn't say  
that I am happy. When I'm on the sideline coaching 
my kid, I'm not happy, I'm engaged. When I'm in  
the gym deadlifting, I'm often very uncomfortable. 
But what I am in all of those instances is I am  
deeply satisfied and fulfilled. And I think that 
it behooves us to not put happiness on a pedestal,  
to not chase happiness, and instead to try 
to orient around what I call excellence,  
which then leads to mastery and mattering 
and satisfaction and fulfillment.
And satisfaction and happiness are very different 
things. Happiness has this hedonic tone to it.  
that is very ephemeral. Whereas satisfaction, 
it's deeper. Like we feel it in our bones,  
it's more lasting. And don't get me wrong, 
satisfaction, like a life of satisfaction is  
going to have moments of great, great 
happiness, but it's like a butterfly.
The more you try to grab happiness, the more it's 
gonna flow away from you. And there's a wonderful,  
very, very popular hypothetical that's 
often used in undergraduate philosophy  
classes to make the point that I'm making 
about happiness. And I'll give it to you all  
real quick. Imagine if you had two options. 
And in the first option, someone will put  
you in a tube for the rest of your life. 
So they take you away from your friends.
They take you away from your family. They 
take you away from any hardship that you have,  
any suffering. And they'd put you in a 
tube. But here's the catch. They would  
give you two drugs. The first drug would 
make you forget that you're in a tube.
And the second drug would make you feel euphoric 
for the rest of your life. Or... you could choose  
not to go in the tube and just go on living your 
life. And the vast majority of people choose not  
to go in the tube. So the tube is like a happiness 
machine. You're just happy all the time, right?
But you would leave behind 
all the stuff of fulfillment,  
of meaning. And that is really what makes 
for a good, flourishing human life. And if  
you step back and you think about the tube, 
you know what the tube starts to sound quite  
a bit like? Like a heroin addiction. 
right? I mean, it shrinks your life.
And those are very serious issues that cripple 
lives and they blow up communities and families.  
But someone in the throes of heroin, when they're 
actually using, they get a rush of euphoria. So I  
just think there are so many examples that show 
us that, well, happiness is great. If we make  
happiness the thing, it can often backfire. And 
as I said, I call it the happiness industrial  
complex. There's all these books about how to 
be happy But the best way to be happy is to  
stop trying so damn hard to be happy and to throw 
yourself and care deeply about things that matter.
And when you're having good days, enjoy 
them. And when you're having bad days or  
you're feeling pain, realize that that too 
is a part of the human existence. Another  
trap or misconception about excellence is 
that it's a standard. So it means making it  
to the Olympics or becoming the first chair 
violinist or graduating from medical school  
or getting straight A's or playing Division 
I sports. Those outcomes, they're wonderful  
and we should want to attain them. However, 
they are a very small part of excellence.
They are the peak of the mountain. But the truth 
is that you spend 99.99999% of your time on the  
sides of the mountain. And that is where so much 
of life is lived. And that's where so much of  
excellence unfolds. I also quote Robert Persig 
in the book. And I just I love this so much.
And I think it really encapsulates this point. 
And Persig says that the only Zen you find on  
the tops of mountains is the Zen that you bring 
up there with you. We think that all the Zen, all  
the good stuff is what we get on the summit of the 
mountain when we achieve our goal. But actually,  
the only good stuff that's going to be on the 
top of the mountain when we achieve the goal  
is the experience that we have to get there. And 
that's very true as an actual mountain climber,  
but that's also true metaphorically in whatever 
goal we pursue. If we pursue a goal of starting  
a company, but we're miserable the whole 
time we do it, we're angry, we're resentful,  
we're not building relationships, we're 
not living in alignment with our values,  
when that IPO bell rings, we're still 
going to be an empty, miserable person.
There's going to be no zen on the top of that 
mountain. But if we pursue the goal of starting  
a company, of having a company IPO in a way that 
aligns with our values, that shapes our character,  
that builds relationships, we're actually having 
fun. Then when we ring that bell, it's going to be  
a really joyful experience. So we've covered a lot 
of grounds that really mirrors the first part of  
the book, which is this big swing at reclaiming 
excellence, reclaiming it from optimization,  
from the hustle culture bros, from perfectionism, 
from the happiness industrial complex. And I argue  
that excellence is our birthright. It's what 
makes us feel alive and good in the world.
And then I explore the biology, psychology, and 
philosophy of excellence, which we've discussed  
at length. Caring. Goals, consistency, 
trade-offs, focus, discipline, renewal,  
confidence, patience, routine, gumption, 
curiosity, failure, community, joy,  
and completion. While there are 16 factors 
of excellence, for the purposes of today,  
let's go into three. Goals, consistency, and 
patience. Goals give you a target to shoot for.
It's important to pick a mountain to climb. 
And without a peak, there is no mountain. And  
a goal is very much a peak that you're 
striving for. So it gives your journey,  
it gives your pursuit some shape and some 
form. A process over outcomes mindset says  
that first you do, you want to pick your 
big aspirational goal. And then after you  
set that big goal, you want to break it 
down into its smaller component parts.
Because just thinking about this big goal can 
often be overwhelming. But if you can break it  
down into small parts, it gives you these 
manageable micro milestones along the way.  
Then the third step of a process mindset is to 
largely forget about the big goal and instead  
focus on those small daily, sometimes weekly steps 
that you can take to work toward that big goal.  
Now, the fourth part is if you catch yourself 
stressing out or worrying about the big goal  
ahead of you, use that as a cue to ask 
yourself, what could you be doing right  
now? How can you re-immerse yourself 
in the process? And fifth and finally,  
remember that occasionally, inevitably, 
you are going to fall off the path.
And when you fall off the path, your job is simply 
to step back on. A process over outcomes mindset  
is so important because when we set a big goal, 
There's often this temptation to talk about the  
goal, to think about the goal, to dream about the 
goal, but these things all become stand-ins for  
actually working toward the goal. And the only way 
that we accomplish really big goals is by focusing  
on the small steps that we take along the way. 
Oftentimes we think that the achievement of some  
goal is what's going to bring us fulfillment, but 
it's actually not the achievement. It's all the  
work that we do to get to the goal. That's 
where the joy and the satisfaction lives.
Don't get me wrong. Achievement 
feels good. As I said earlier,  
Excellence is not a let's all hold hands 
and sing kumbaya and pretend that winning  
or accomplishment doesn't matter. But it also 
acknowledges that if we if we tell ourselves,  
if I just win this or if I just accomplish 
that, then I'll be happy. We are falling for  
a trap that is as old as time. In the book, 
I tell the story of Ray Allen, one of the  
best basketball players ever, a craftsperson, 
phenomenal technician, three point shooter.
And Ray Allen had done everything in 
his career except win a championship.  
He had been in all-star games. He had 
won three-point shooting titles. He'd  
even starred in a Spike Lee movie. 
He got game. But Ray thought that if  
he just won a championship, then 
the hole inside would be filled.
Then he'd be content. And finally, after years 
of trying, he won his first championship with  
the Boston Celtics in 2008. And you know 
what Ray Allen said? He said the morning  
after winning that championship was one of 
the most disorienting mornings of his life.  
because he realized that it didn't fulfill him. 
Now, if that is not a perfect encapsulation of  
this trap of this arrival fallacy, I don't 
know what is, but we all feel that, right?
My guess is every single individual watching 
this has at some point in their life told  
themselves a story that if they just get 
to this achievement, then they'll be happy  
or then they'll be content. And perhaps you had 
contentment and happiness for a couple hours or  
a couple days or maybe even a couple weeks and 
but then you're back to striving. In running,  
it's called the post-marathon blues. So you train 
so hard for this big goal, you run a marathon,  
you achieve it, and then the next day you're 
sad. Why? Because you built up achievement as  
if it was gonna be this thing that would give you 
lasting satisfaction when you were actually more  
satisfied in the training because that's the 
work that you were doing day in and day out.
If you are new to a craft or new to an activity, 
or maybe you're even new to setting goals to begin  
with, a really advantageous and helpful framework 
is called SMART. And it stands for Specific,  
Measurable, Actionable, Relatable, and Time-bound. 
So an example of a SMART goal could be deadlifting  
405 pounds. So it's very specific, right? 
It's a deadlift. It's very measurable.
There's a number. I want to get to 405 pounds. 
It's very actionable. You can back into a training  
plan that you can show up and try to engage in and 
do every single day. It's very relatable if you  
value health or you value performance or you're 
in the gym. And then finally, it's time bound.
You could say, I want to deadlift 405 
pounds by the end of this year. That  
would be an example of a SMART goal. 
SMART goals are really useful because  
they hold you accountable. They're not 
wishy-washy. They give you a specific  
time frame to work toward that goal 
in. And again, they're very actionable.
You can say to Deadlift 405 pounds, these 
are the four workouts I need to do every  
single week for four years that is going to 
help me achieve that eventual goal down the  
road. So as this comes together, you 
can see that when we pursue a goal,  
we're working toward that goal. But 
that goal is also working on us. We  
want to get to the peak of the mountain, 
but all the growth happens on the side.  
So the peak of the mountain might be a 600-pound 
deadlift. But we are growing as a person.
We are learning about resilience and overcoming 
failure and being uncomfortable and the power  
of community and vulnerability and failure 
and showing up. That doesn't happen when we  
hit the 600-pound lift. That happens in the 
years of training to get there. So if we're  
pursuing our goals in a way that aligns with our 
values, we have this beautiful closed loop where  
the process is energizing, it's satisfying, 
it's fulfilling, it's shaping us as a person.  
And if we achieve the goal, if we get to the top 
of the mountain, we'll have brought a lot of zen,  
a lot of aliveness, a lot of satisfaction up there 
with us. Log on to the internet, any social media,  
and there are so many influencers that just 
are showing their absolute heroic days.
So it's the workout that leaves you shredded and 
you go till you puke. It's the tech bro that is  
bragging about the string of all-nighters that 
he or she pulled to launch their company. The  
runner that talks about that epic workout where 
they did 16 400s at 5k pace, whatever it is. And  
what can happen is we can mistake the goal of 
excellence as having these single heroic days,  
when in fact, the way that you make progress 
at something, the goal of excellence is not  
to have a heroic day. It's to string together 
many very good days over long periods of time  
to create a heroic year or a heroic decade 
or a heroic body of work. If I wanted to  
be the best writer, the most proficient 
writer I could be over a one week period,  
I would not sleep and I would exist on a diet 
of Red Bull, Celsius, espresso, and cigarettes.
And truly, I think if I did that for one week, 
I would produce an enormous volume of very high  
quality work. That would be a heroic week. But 
if I tried to build a career writing like that,  
my writing would go to crap. And that is the 
trap of optimizing for short-term intensity  
for what plays really well, for what makes 
us feel heroic versus long-term progress,  
which is much more a function of 
consistency. It's not to say that  
there aren't times to be intense. It's not to 
say that there aren't times to go to the well.
There absolutely are. One of my friends 
and collaborative partners, Steve Magnus,  
calls this going to see God. There 
are times in every pursuit where we  
want to go see God. But the only way 
that we give ourselves the fitness,  
the ability to have that intensity is by being 
super consistent. We have to build up to those  
moments when we go see God. And even then, we 
can only go see God a few times a year at most.
There's this popular framework in personal 
development and in performance that is just  
get 1% better every day. And as a mindset, 
I really agree with it and I like it.  
What it says is that you don't always have to hit 
home runs. You just have to put the ball in play,  
right? You don't have to be a hero. Just show 
up every day and just get a little bit better.
Just get 1% better every day. And as a mindset, 
that is a wonderful driver of consistency.  
However, what often happens is that people 
start to take that a little bit too literally,  
and they expect that they'll actually 
get 1% better every day. But progress  
doesn't work like that. If I got 1% 
better every day as a powerlifter,  
my deadlift would be over 1,000 pounds right 
now. I'd be the best deadlifter to ever live.
It's not. If I got 1% better every day as 
a writer, I would have nine Pulitzer Prizes  
by now. But I don't. So how progress actually 
works is when we're relatively new to something,  
we get more than 1% better every day. We get 
100% better every day. Then we get 70% better,  
50% better, 20% better, 10% better.
And then we get to this phase where we're 
making these little incremental gains.  
We're getting 1% better every day. And that 
sense of concrete progress is so addictive.  
It's so motivating. But what happens to anyone on 
a journey of progress is that eventually they hit  
a plateau and they stop getting 1% better every 
day. And at this point, the motivation has got  
to shift from these observable concrete bits of 
progress to curiosity about what you're doing,  
into commitment, into an unwavering 
consistency that acknowledges that  
sometimes you are going to get a little bit 
better, but sometimes for a week, for a month,  
maybe even a year, you might be on a plateau 
where you don't yet see observable progress.
But if you keep showing up underneath 
the surface, you're building experience,  
you're building progress. To bring this point to 
life in the book, I tell the story of the world  
champion powerlifter, Lane Norton. And Lane Norton 
deadlifted 723 pounds. So for his age and weight  
class, the best in the world. Guess what Lane 
Norton deadlifted 10 years prior? 715 pounds.
So over 10 years, Lane Norton added eight pounds 
to his deadlift. So he wasn't getting 1% better  
every day. He wasn't even getting 1% better every 
year. He was getting about 0.8% better every  
year. Now, if you divide 0.8% by 365, I would 
need someone that's better at math to tell me,  
but there would be a decimal and a few zeros. 
So if Lane Norton was addicted to that kind of  
progress, if Lane Norton said, I just need to 
get 1% better every day, he would have quit.
He worked 10 years to gain less than a percentage 
point of performance. And I asked Lane, I said,  
what kept you on the path? And he 
said, it was curiosity about the  
craft. It was self-discovery. It 
was community. It was commitment.
It was discipline. And it was this mindset 
that whether or not I made observable progress,  
I would stay consistent. There's a lot of 
fascinating research that comes out of sports  
science as the main field that shows that when 
athletes increase their acute training load,  
which is often defined as what you do this week, 
by more than 10% of their chronic training load,  
which is often defined as what you've done the 
past month, rates of injury and illness skyrocket.  
So what that means is that if you try to take too 
big of a jump from your historic body of work,  
from what you've been doing, you set yourself 
up to get injured to burnout. So while that is  
very measurable in sport, in my reporting, I 
saw this in just about every field, that when  
we go on these benders of just trying to do an 
enormous amount of work, when we get caught up  
in hustle culture and we try to be hero of the day 
or hero of the week, we have a really good day or  
a really good week. But then the following month 
or two months or in some cases year goes to crap.
And then you end up on this performance 
trajectory where you have a couple of great days,  
but in between those great days are shitty 
months. And that's not how lasting progress  
is made. You don't go to the gym and kill yourself 
once a week. to gain muscle and to gain fitness.  
You gotta go to the gym four days a week. And 
in order to go to the gym four days a week,  
you can't kill yourself on any one because 
the goal isn't to destroy yourself.
The goal is to build a consistent rhythm that 
allows you to incrementally gain over time. If  
you're interested in establishing consistency for 
yourself toward a goal, here are a couple ideas  
that can help. You generally want to stop one 
rep short or one sentence short or one meaning  
short. So very rarely do you just want to leave 
it all out there on any given day. You want to  
have a little bit in the tank so that you can 
pick up that rhythm the next day. Another way  
to think about it is you want most efforts to 
be somewhere between a 5 and a 7 out of 10.
Because once you start tapping into that 
8, 9, 10 out of 10, You're drawing from  
the bank that you're going to need for the 
rest of the week or the rest of the month.  
If you go below a 5 out of 10, you can kind of 
get into that easy going through the motions,  
you're not really challenging yourself zone. But 
a 5 to 7 out of 10, a just manageable challenge,  
that is like the proximate zone of 
consistency, the proximate zone of  
development. And then the final thing I'd say 
is be an anthropologist of your own progress.  
So look back at the times that you overshot 
the target. And what led you to do that?
Was it a lack of confidence? Was it insecurity? 
Was it comparing yourself to what other people do?  
And how can you try to short circuit that 
temptation in the future? Patience means  
understanding that there's no such thing 
as an overnight breakthrough. Every great  
accomplishment, every great attainment, 
every great achievement in science,  
in the arts, in sports, in business, 
it was always years in the making.
So we've got to play the long game. We have 
to commit to showing up through those ups and  
downs and turns and setbacks and highs and 
lows. And we've got to zoom out and really  
give ourselves a chance to stay on the path 
over a long period of time and not rush our  
progress. Because when we rush our progress, we 
get in our own way. That's when we get injured,  
when we burn out. I think it's a very 
natural human inclination to want to rush.
And I think that it's perpetuated by the 
modern world, which is very high velocity.  
Everything moves fast. The news cycle 
moves fast. Entertainment moves fast.  
Our cars move fast. We communicate in 
microseconds with the click of a button.
There's so much velocity in life. But the 
path of excellence, of making progress in  
a heartfelt pursuit, it's often a nine inning 
game. It takes time. And you can't rush your way  
through a nine inning game. And as badly as you 
might want to be in the bottom of the seventh,  
it could just be that you're in the top of 
the third. When thinking about patience is  
a integral factor of excellence, it's really 
important to understand and expect plateaus.
Plateaus are a feature because they're what 
happens when you stop getting 1% better every  
day. And in many ways, when you're on the plateau, 
that's when all the interesting stuff happens,  
when you can't predict progress, when it 
becomes nonlinear, when you really have  
to lean into discipline and you have to 
practice your values and find the rewards  
intrinsically because you're not getting 
that external validation and that external  
little dopamine hit of progress. Plateaus are 
also a feature because generally speaking,  
before we have a breakthrough, we experience 
a plateau. So it's like pounding a stone. And  
the stone might crack on the 32nd pound, 
but the first 31 pounds, you're building  
tension. And even though you're not seeing the 
stone crack, tension is building in the stone.
And when we work on goals, we're going to get 
to a point when we need to build that tension,  
when we're going to be on this plateau. And if 
we stick to our process, if we stay consistent,  
we give ourselves the best chance at eventually 
having the breakthrough. Micro objectives are so  
important in the pursuit of big goals because 
they keep you really present. So let's use the  
metaphor of a mountain again. If you're constantly 
looking at the peak of the mountain at the start  
of your climb, you might get really discouraged 
because it's quite far away. You might also trip  
and fall because you're not looking down, 
you're not climbing where your feet are.
But if instead of looking at the peak 
of the mountain, you say, my goal for  
today is to gain momentum, 200 meters, 300 
meters, whatever it might be in elevation,  
then instead of having to look all the way up 
at the peak of the mountain and be overwhelmed  
and potentially trip, you can just look up at 
the next section. And that is such a powerful  
focusing mechanism to keep you climbing where your 
feet are. And this is true on an actual mountain,  
but it's also true metaphorically. The other 
reason that micro objectives are really  
important is because they serve as a motivating 
force. Right. If you view the mountain is just  
getting to the peak and the peak might take four 
months, it's really hard to sustain motivation.
But if you give yourself some contrived little 
victories along the way, some milestones, you  
can feel that that progress being made in route to 
the bigger goal. A profound example of this that's  
not a mountain climber, but another athlete, 
comes from the bobsledder Kelly Humphreys.  
Kelly Humphreys is a three-time gold medalist 
and a five-time world champion. She's competed  
in five Olympics. So you can do the math. 
She's been atop this sport for 20 years.
Just incredible longevity. And I asked Kelly, I 
said, Kelly, tell me about your goals. She said,  
my goal is really simple. My goal is to win 
a gold medal every four years. And I joked,  
I said, simple, simple doesn't mean easy. And 
then she said, here's how I go about this goal.
I break that big goal of win a gold 
medal every four years down into two  
by two years. And the first two years is 
about building a base. And the second two  
years is about sharpening the edge of the 
sword. And then each of those two year  
increments gets broken down into one year. 
And each year has a specific training focus,  
a specific training objective. Each 
year gets broken down into quarters.
Each quarter gets broken down into months. Each 
month gets broken down into weeks. And each week  
gets broken down into days. And every day, I 
just have to show up and execute my workout.  
That to me is this wonderful example of a 
process over outcome mindset that embraces  
the power of consistency and that requires 
a lot of patience. So there is this really  
nice interplay between setting goals, which again, 
gives your path, gives your activities some form.
Committing to consistency, which is what 
keeps you working toward your goal. And  
then having an attitude of patience, which 
is what allows you to play the long game to  
give your consistency a chance to manifest 
into progress. Want to support the channel?  
Join the Big Think Members community where 
you get access to videos early, ad-free.