美股播华尔街专利大家好我是美投君你们的美股探路者上周我在美投pro视频中分析了稳定币行业和circle的投资价值当时就有不少看官表示意犹未尽这个行业确实有极高的上限但是行业内的投资标的却几乎都无法投资 As an investor, you must want to grab the opportunity to take revenge like Bitcoin a decade ago But how can we be sure if we really see the opportunity? Is it really going to rush in like this? The answer is not that simple If you look back at the performance of Bitcoin in the past decade You will find that it has grown dozens of times But in the process it is extremely slow It has had multiple 10 times or more explosions And multiple 80% of the explosion Even if you say you are the prospect of Bitcoin 10 years ago But it was always dropped to the bottom of the mountain And accidentally cut off by a riding ankle Can you stand it? How many people can really bear such a wave Has been holding the gold of Bitcoin for more than 10 years So even if you see this big gap It's not easy to really grasp it 然而如果说我们能够提前了解到一个模糊的股价规律比如说什么时候股价最容易突破什么时候最有可能崩盘是不是就能够相对更容易的把握住这种发展及早期的投资机会了呢今天这期视频美投金就来帮助各位看官来提前找到稳定币的这个规律 当然了作为一名长期价值投资者我不会从股票k线途中找规律而是会从稳定币的技术特点商业模式以及宏观环境等各种基本面的角度来帮助大家找到答案 什么是稳定币稳定币是加密货币的一种它和所有加密货币一样都应用了区块链技术有着防伪可追踪不可复制等特点不过和比特币以太坊这种不断波动的数字货币不同稳定币是谋定了现实法币的一种加密货币最常见的就是和美元绑定 一枚稳定币的价值就恒定对应着一美元而要想实现这个效果每一个稳定币背后一般都有一美元的资产作为抵押而这个抵押资产往往就是现金或者无风险的短期国债这点和比特币相比完全不同比特币是以算法为核心背后是没有任何资产作支撑的 The reason why the stable currency has become a hot topic in the market now Our investors have to understand that the reason is because of its extremely high upper limit At this point, it is not at all inferior to Bitcoin at that time Even higher So where does its upper limit come from? 最为重要的一点核心在于它作为一种货币有着无与伦比的相对优势你比如和美元相比稳定币的交易成本要更低速度要更快而且还具备区块链的防伪可追踪不可复制等优势而和同属区块链的比特币相比稳定币又没有那么高的价格波动 对比特币这样一个不断增值的货币来说人们更愿意存着它把它当做资产而不会用于交易而稳定币则贵在稳定作为交易媒介再适合不过了所以你看单从理论上讲稳定币是比美元和比特币都更适合交易的一种货币而且看起来它似乎还能够胜任所有的交易场景甚至有取代美元作为全球贸易货币的可能这也是市面上很多人对于稳定币取之若误的主要原因 但是作为一名投资者你可不能被这些头脑发热的言论给带了节奏稳定币确实相比于美元和比特币都有其货币属性上的优势但是落地到现实世界中稳定币的应用场景其实是非常特定的这一点非常关键你只要了解了它真正的应用场景才能够把握其未来价值突破的关键 Now when people talk about the application scenarios of stable coins It is often mentioned that black market transactions, currency transactions Or the value selection of high-end countries, etc. But in fact, if you are interested in the investment value of stable coins Then these scenarios are not the focus The specific reason I introduced in the stable coin video of the previous Meitou Pro Let's not expand the time here For investors, the most critical use scenario of stable currency is also the scenario that determines its investment value. That's it, that's the "money-in-the-bottom" Now we use the SWIFT system for money-in-the-bottom And this is a system from decades ago, with a lot of problems If you want to transfer money, you need to go through the bank transfer, the central bank, and then the bank transfer. You have to collect a sum of money every time you pass a level. The cost may be up to 1% to 10% And it's very slow It usually takes a few working days to get to the account I believe that all of you watching this video should have the experience of going overseas to transfer money How inconvenient is this? I'm sure we all have our own experience And the foundation behind stable coins is the blockchain It can't make a point-to-point transfer without a mid-sector Usually a cross-border payment of tens to hundreds of dollars In stable coins, the fee is only a few dollars The cost is far below the transfer of SWIFT And it can be completed in a few seconds Confirm and transfer And 24 hours without rest Not like the bank You have to wait until workday to transfer It is comparable to traditional cross-border payments It has an advantage that can't compare to you 你还千万别以为稳定币跨境支付就只是银行之间的转账这么简单它背后牵扯的实际上是庞大的国际贸易任何国际贸易之间的支付都需要跨境汇款要知道这可是200万亿的市场潜力巨大 And it's just a static market scale If you look at it in a dynamic way The entire cross-border payment market is likely to be There will be further expansion because of stable currency Why do you say that Before a small amount of hundreds of dollars of foreign currency orders Put it in the payment system of SWIFT The mobile phone bill will be eaten by nearly 10% So a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises For example, the small farm of coffee beans grown by the buyer The small clothing processing plant in Southeast Asia In the past, they were basically excluded from global trade So they can only be forced to sell in China Or have to rely on the middleman to make a guarantee To be able to complete the cross-border transaction And now when stable coins enter the cross-border payment market Small and medium-sized companies with a total of 10,000 in the world The threshold for cross-border business has been greatly reduced They can directly trade with overseas buyers at extremely low cost Jump over the traditional medium Participate in global trade And this will greatly improve the overall scale of cross-border transactions So you see, not only is Stability Coin relative to traditional cross-border payments, with a relatively higher advantage, but also wants to rush in to make a difference. And the appearance of Stability Coin can also let those companies that were not in cross-border trade participate, which creates a positive cycle. This is where Stability Coin can really bring subversive value. It is not simply to improve payment efficiency, but to fundamentally promote the scale of global trade. 也正因为他有改写全球支付和贸易格局的能力稳定币的市场潜力才被广泛的看好虽然现在稳定币的总市值只有大约2500亿美元但根据Bernstein的预测2030年稳定币市场的总规模就会达到4万亿美元相当于是年化70%的增速而前不久美国政府和渣打银行共同的报告也认为2028年稳定币市场总规模就会达到2万亿美元也是70%左右的增速 那么既然该行业的上限如此之高那是否应该尽早的开始布局呢别急光有上限还不够我们投资者还必须要了解该行业的投资逻辑关于这一点我发现多数投资者都有一个极大的误区很多人认为稳定币就会像是早期的比特币一样在不断的炒作中疯狂增长但实际上稳定币和比特币的投资逻辑完全不同实际上稳定币和比特币的投资逻辑完全不同 它的增长远比比特币要难得多我们说比特币它更像是一种资产它的投资逻辑是靠不断的换手交易带来价格的上涨这其实是相对容易的而稳定币不同它的价格就锚定在一美元不会变动它本质上更像是一种商品它的价值不来自于资产的升值而来自于用量的提升 就像是美元它的价值也不在于美元本身的价值而在于有多少人来用它交易稳定币也一样它需要靠一个个真实的个体参与到使用比特币中来才能够提升它的价值这种的难度很显然是更高的也是很难靠单纯的资本市场炒作就实现价值提升的 Understand the logic of the investment of stable currency The most important question is coming Since the amount is the key to the stable currency Why does it seem that the stable currency is still not used in large scale after more than ten years of development? What are the reasons for the development of it? Is there a solution? The answer to these questions is very important Because he will decide when the stable currency can really break through When will it be hindered And the real rules of the stock price are hidden behind these questions 首先稳定币有一个最根本的问题那就是大家对其缺乏最基础的信任稳定币行业现在仍然存在很多乱象比如说很多公司虽说自己是稳定币但却没有任何资产作为支撑就连行业内的最大文件Tesla旗下的USDT都有15%的资产没有放到无风险资产中这不免让人对于其稳定性以及其兑付能力都产生怀疑但是在这些情况下以及其对付能力都产生怀疑 If a currency user is worried about not being able to redeem or worried about the risk of the platform exploding Then no matter how advanced the technology is, the more advantages there are, it is difficult for this currency to truly become the mainstream Is there any solution? Yes, the best solution is to monitor In fact, early Bitcoin has also faced the same problem Because the blockchain technology itself has the tendency to de-centralize So the industry is always difficult to obtain effective supervision The incident of the storm has also been out of the blue these years The fraud of the three bankruptcies and the FTC two years ago Are still in the air But in recent years, with the supervision of the targeted intelligence The industry has already been standardized This also makes the big funds of traditional Wall Street institutions Get a long time After that, the price of Bitcoin has really stabilized It also brought the biggest development in the industry since the beginning This is essentially because the supervision of the entry Enhance people's trust in Bitcoin In the end, it brought a boost in the value of Bitcoin And it's the same with stable coins To develop the stable coin industry Supervision is also an important area And for this reason, the stable currency industry has just experienced a turning point that is called a "sad turn" And this is the passage of the US genius bill The legislation of the bill has been in place for several months Just yesterday, it was officially passed by the two parties 天才法案可以简单总结成四点第一是保证稳定币背后百分之百的价值都有真实的抵押品而且只允许投资极短期的美债第二是要大幅提高稳定币发行商的透明度以便监管机构和民众的监督第三是要求稳定币不能发利息这是为了保证稳定币的货币属性而不能变成投资品也不能成为融资工具第四是强化发行机构的返洗钱和合规的义务抑制非法交易 This genius bill passed means that the Stability Coin has the most basic monitoring framework and development direction This is the foundation for the Stability Coin to gain trust It is also the key to its long-term growth This is why the Stability Coin industry has suddenly burst into flames recently Many people think that the Stability Coin is a big fire because of Circle's IPO In fact, the root cause is the launch of this genius bill And Circle is just listed on Dongfeng Since the regulatory system is so critical, will the industry come to the non-fast development period after the "Greed" bill? Now many interpretations on the market are thought to be like this, but I don't think so. Because the nature of stable coins is destined to be difficult to continue the growth trend brought by the regulatory system. Soon, stable coins will encounter obstacles on the next level. Why do you say that? 我们上面分析过稳定币的投资逻辑和比特币不同稳定币不是靠资产的升值而是靠用量的提升从而实现增长对于资产来说一旦信任建立起来后价格就可以不断的提升了 当年监管的完善也确实成为了比特币最为关键的一个价值转折点但是对于稳定币这种类似于商品属性的货币来说它要想增长 光有信任还不够它必须还得好用才行而现在的稳定币远远谈不上好用 普通人要想做稳定币转账目前来看还并不容易操作非常繁琐不说如果你对于数字货币不了解集中很多工具你都不知道是干什么的而且一旦操作失误后果可能还很严重比如忘记密钥你的资金就彻底无法追回了即便就说你能克服所有这些困难要是对方没有稳定币钱包或者交易所账户你也完成不了交易 So I'm the leader, and I'm the one who's in trouble Not only do I do it, I also force the collector to do it with me Can it promote the development of the industry? No, because the technology of stable currency is not yet over Now there are not many stable currency amounts So it's cheap and fast when it comes to transfer But once the amount of transactions increases, the system will block If you want to trade, you have to line up The time may even be longer than SWIFT This is a natural criticism of blockchain technology There is no good way to solve it completely now 所以你看稳定币不仅用起来麻烦而且技术本身还存在瓶颈要知道作为一个支付媒介最重要的一个性质就是网络效应你必须得有足够多的使用场景足够多人愿意用反过来生价才会愿意接受从而促进更多人来使用但是如果你的交易这么复杂技术又有缺陷那根本就不可能建立起网络效应来那么稳定币就注定只能作为一个小众货币在特定的人群中使用 So you say this problem can't be solved? In fact, the technical problem is relatively easy to solve. Now there are methods such as chip technology or chain expansion that can solve the problem of block chain blocking on a certain extent. But the most critical thing is to build a network-effective infrastructure. What does it mean? It means that those companies with network efficiency are willing to enter the stable currency. For example, payment companies like PayPal and Stripe, or credit card companies like Visa Mastercard, or global banks, these companies are all companies with complete and complete regulatory supervision and have network efficiency themselves. These companies are willing to enter the game to reduce the basic facilities of stable currency, so that users can easily transfer the stable currency and exchange it easily with the main currency. In this way, stable currency can really have a good use, and can really achieve a significant improvement. If you pay attention to the Stabilization Coin News, you will understand that in fact, these large payment companies, including some big banks, have already begun to enter the Stabilization Coin. Does that mean that the second wave of Stabilization Coin growth is coming soon? No, don't be fooled by the superficial actions of these big companies. They seem to have made the Stabilization Coin layout, but in fact it's just a test. No one is really serious about building the basic facilities of Stabilization Coin. This is not my own subjective opinion, but the interest relationship behind it. For example, these financial and payment giants are the ones who have the current payment system, and the stable currency is destined to impact their interests. Because once the stable currency is really spread, the exchange will no longer pass through their traditional computing network, and there will be no need to pay high transfer fees, which is equivalent to attacking their most profitable business. For example, Visa and MasterCard, their income from cross-border payments accounts for one-third of the company's total income. It's too difficult for them to actively give up this part of the income. So even if big companies know the trend of stable currency, they are also difficult to make up their own mind to subvert themselves. Will there be new subversives, such as stablecoin issuers, Circle, to challenge these giants? It's also difficult, because they don't have a channel for payment and no cross-border transactions, and they can't build a network-effective infrastructure. And the keys to these channels are all in the hands of the supervisor. And the supervision agency cares most about the risk of control, and it will not easily send the channel's license to a challenger who has not been verified. So you see, this creates a classic triangle trap. Banks and those old-timer payment institutions have resources and cards in their hands, but they are the beneficiaries. There is no motivation to subvert the existing system at all. And innovators like Circle have ideas and technology that can promote the landing of stable coins. But they don't have cards and don't have a channel to cross the transaction. 而监管机构他们有发牌的选利但出于风险控制的原则他们则更倾向于把牌照发给那些已经合规几十年的老牌机构希望他们来促成稳定币的发展于是这三方互相撤走互相牵制老玩家不想变新玩家不能推监管者不敢放 This means that although the stable currency has the ability to change the cross-border payment in technology, it will also be a major trend in the future. But there is actually no one who is really able to stand up and push this subversive trend. As the situation develops, the cross-border payment of the stable currency may not develop too quickly. The current heat is destined to be a bit more greedy. Is there no chance for the future of the stable currency? I can only say that it is very difficult to change I dare to guess that the change may come from two aspects The first is that there is a strong political power The reform of pushing the supervision without considering the consequences So break through this triangle But this is actually difficult to achieve in a democratic country The second, which is more likely to happen, is that the stablecoin is actively integrated into the existing SWIFT system. The current SWIFT system is deeply linked to the monitoring system of countries, the anti-money mechanism, and the capital control. There are tens of thousands of banks in the world that have entered this system. It is already part of the modern international financial order. It is almost impossible to completely subvert it. The stablecoin wants to enter the cross-border payment industry, it must actively integrate into the SWIFT system, rather than subvert it. This requires large financial institutions to sacrifice some of their income. Stabilized currency issuers compromise some of the centralized nature, but also need to actively embrace some risks. Each party has to sacrifice, but less than before. I hope to break this triangle in this way. If we investors see that the above two directions have been broken through, then the real high-speed growth period of stable coins will come. Otherwise, in my opinion, even if there is improvement, stable coins are still destined to be a small Chinese currency, and its heat is also destined to be a day of收尾. Okay, here we have finished analyzing the development of the stable currency industry at various stages. So for our investment, how should we view the opportunity to invest in the stable currency? First of all, we must admit that the passing of the genius bill is indeed a water-diver of the stable currency. This gives the stable currency the most basic growth conditions, and it is likely to bring a certain outbreak to the industry in the short term. But the regulatory body can only ensure that the stable currency does not have any problems And if you want to achieve the upper limit of the stable currency You have to be really good And at present, if the stable currency wants to be good Or establish its effective network efficiency Still facing a difficult triangle that cannot be broken This means that this wave of growth is destined to continue If you want to participate in this wave of trend Then I'm afraid you need to build a good old collection But these are all short-term investment ideas If we look at it from a long-term perspective I personally very much agree with the final launch of Bitcoin In my opinion, the stable currency is an inevitable result of the technological progress of the payment system And technological progress will not be transferred with the will of the person or the difficulties of the objective I believe that all the difficulties we mentioned above will be solved in the end. However, for us investors, we can't just decide the current investment just because of the final upper limit. The development in the process is also very important. And now we have learned about the key points of the development of the stable currency. I think you can also hold on to this subversive investment opportunity. In the video of the METAL PRO on Monday, I will analyze such a technology that can really be subverted now, a company that can explode by technology. This is the META that has AI technology. We have shared many times in our previous videos. In my opinion, META is the best AI investment in the current market, except for the English answer. In this METO PRO video, I will give you a special study Let's analyze the development of META's AI technology and AI applications What changes can it bring to the company's investment value And what specific difficulties are waiting to be solved This is definitely a deep review that is not visible on the market If you are a META shareholder, don't miss this video METO PRO new users can use it for free the first seven days Come and experience it 如果你喜欢美投君的视频别忘了点赞关注和转发哦谢谢大家