中国股市吸引的是狐狸而并非刺猬这是今年5月底现代金融与投资的经典著作之一金融投资史的作者爱德华钱赛乐在路透社发表的一篇文章标题这是什么意思呢大家好我是老周 上周五上海证券交易所综合指数十年来首次突破3800点自今年四月份以来A股就一直在上涨进入八月份以后上涨幅度更加迅猛过去一个月上证指数大约上涨了7%左右所以很多观众又开始问我了老周啊怎么办我应该进场吗 After the CCP's government removed 800 billion of the old stock market in September last year, A-share has experienced a round of applause Old viewers should know that I was anxious for everyone at that time I connected two episodes to express my views on China's stock market Over the past year, because of these two videos, Many people write comments or send private messages Thank you for saving them or their families But now, when the so-called "China stock market created a new high of 10 years" news headlines are released Many people are starting to get their ears, ears, and ears pierced and their hearts are beating fast Even those who don't want to stock up Many people also have a question The Chinese economy is clearly like this The house price is down, small enterprises are closed, and the mall is empty The stores and shoe stores can't be rented out Young people can't find a job, etc. Why is the stock market so rising? 於是我決定再做一期用一個更宏觀的角度去探討中國股市的問題以及這一次你們應不應該進場好 那麼這個時候我們回到節目一開始的時候我說的那篇文章中國股市吸引的是狐狸而並非刺蝟 This metaphor comes from the ancient Greek poet Achilleokos He said, "A fox knows many poems, but only one great thing is the taste." What does this mean? The fox is cunning, smart, and has many changes. He knows many tricks, such as the former servant's attack and the Yang Gong. And the second guard is small and slow He looks very fragile in front of a hunter like Fox But he has a unique skill No matter what danger you come in He is a ball with a full body No matter how cunning and flexible Fox is He can't do anything about this trick So Fox knows a lot of things But the second guard only knows one big thing 2001年吉姆克林斯在他的工商管理著作從優秀到卓越里提出了次位理念他認為真正偉大的公司往往都是次位型公司而不是無理型公司無理型公司總是嘗試很多策略分散精力、缺乏持久的聚焦和堅持而次位型公司有一個堅守的原則並且堅定的聚焦在一件自己能夠做得最好的事情上 好,那麼我們回到路透社的這篇文章作者想表達的是中國股市只能吸引那些具有投機和賭博心態的狐狸但次位型投資者都會遠離因為次位們堅信一件事中國股市不是長期投資者的樂土 In fact, the author's opinion is the same as the conclusion I made in the last year's program. A share is a huge casino with a stock market. After the A share rose, In recent weeks, every time I talk about the current situation of China's economy in the program, There are always people who love the party saying that China's stock market is constantly improving, where is the economy? I really feel sorry for this comment First of all, we all know that China stock market never reflects the Chinese economy When the environment is good, it does not rise When the environment is bad, it may not fall The most fundamental question is What is the worth of the so-called "10 years of creation" The so-called "Ten-Year-Best-In-The-Middle-Earth-Countries" actually means that the 10 years have not improved The stock market of a country has returned to the starting point for 10 years and it is even proud of it Don't say 10 years ago In 2007, A shares had reached 5900 points After 18 years, it returned from 5900 points to 3800 points How dare you say that you are the best-in-the-middle-earth-countries? Let's compare these two stock trend charts The above is the trend chart of the US stock market Nasdaq and Dow Jones Industrial Index for the past 40 years The following is the trend chart of the Shanghai Stock Exchange Comprehensive Index for the past 30 years If you bought the Nasdaq Comprehensive Index ETF in 1985 and hold it to this day Your stock market value has now risen by 7200% The price is 7.2 million yuan Nasdaq pointed out that the price has increased 72 times in 40 years and 4.4 times in 30 years and if we calculate the inflation of the currency RMB100 in 1993 is equivalent to RMB259 in 2023 so the inflation in 30 years is about 1.6 times and the stock market has actually increased 2.8 times 這30年房價都漲了多少啦中國GDP更是從427億美元增長到了現在的18.5萬億反了43倍你這股市的2.8倍其實就跟一灘死水沒有區別那為什麼會這樣呢為什麼中國股市的長期回報率如此之低呢這就是我今天要討論的重點 第一,有刑无实中国金融市场虽然模仿了西方金融体系的形态设立了证券交易所、券商、审计公司和监管机构但却缺乏西方金融体系的内核那就是有效保护投资人权益的法律和产权保护机制 In the West, the core role of the financial system is to protect investors, and ensure that companies can't bully small shareholders. But in China, the stock market is more of a financing platform. The main idea of the enterprise and the government is that it is enough to get money and add capital to the stock market. As for whether investors can make money for a long time, it is not the most priority. The result of this top-level design is that small shareholders, which is the retail investors of our stocks, have almost no right to speak. In the West, as long as you are a shareholder, even if you have only a little share, you can also vote and sue the company through the shareholders' meeting. But in China, the shareholders' meeting is more about the trend, the big shareholders' decision. 雖然自2020年證券法修訂後,法律上小股東有權提起訴訟,但在實際操作當中幾乎就沒有可行性在美國和歐洲,小股東集體訴訟上市公司非常常見,上市公司經常都要賠償幾千萬甚至上億美金,但是在中國幾乎就沒有成功的案例還是老周我一貫的風格,我們用數據說話 根據斯坦福大學證券集體訴訟數據庫2024年這一年美國訴訟方在聯邦籍州法院總共發起了225起證券集體訴訟這其中有7起案件賠償超過1億美元88起案件庭外和解平均賠償金額4240萬美元但在中國你聽說過有小股東訴訟上市公司成功的嗎幾乎沒有吧 其實有的就一起中國證券市場設立31年後2021年才首次有小股東集體訴訟成功的案例康美藥業因為長期財務報表造假造成股民的巨大損失最終被廣東市中級人民法院判處賠償24.59億元 但是,個案的突破不代表中國的金融制度真的成熟了康美要業案之後我們就再也沒有聽到過任何小股東成功集體訴訟的案例了說到底,康美要業案只不過是當時一個特殊時期的政治需要罷了 2020年中共剛推出新的證券法引入了代表人訴訟制度所以需要一個樣板案例來向社會展示看吧中國也能像美國一樣搞集體訴訟保護投資者啦 再加上康美造假案太轟动了居然虚征了887亿现金这都不是财务造假了是几乎在凭空编故事了证据确凿社会影响大正好拿来做个样板既能显示中国法律的进步也能安抚投资者的情绪 像這樣的造假,就算股民不集體訴訟,本來政府也需要處理的我上面說的,在西方,小股東通過訴訟來維護自身權益並不是說要等到這樣的犯罪案件才能發生的比如小股東認為公司管理層給自己發了過高的薪酬或者認為某個併購會損害股東利益等等,都可以維權 康美藥業是一家民營企業拿來做樣板並不觸動核心利益但從後來四年再也沒有任何一起成功案例我們就知道中共並沒有真正想要對保護股東權益的金融體制進行改革的決心和意願 The CCP is worried that once the lawsuit involves state-owned enterprises to bring a large number of taxes to local governments local large enterprises will have too much interest Of course, it is more important to protect the enterprises and government taxes What about you, the shareholders? Some people may say Americans just like to sue Maybe it's just that the Chinese don't like to do business 这就是从小被管得服服帖帖的人才会说出来的话缺乏最基本的现代法治精神就是因为中国证券市场上的小股东完全没有任何办法对持股公司的任何违规操作进行维权所以大家能够被欺负的地方可多了 For example, the share price of listed companies in China is very low. Many A-share companies would rather take the money to expand and invest in a mess, rather than share the price. The so-called share price is the profit margin divided by the company's profit margin. For example, if the company's profit margin is 1 million and the share price is 500,000, then the share price is 50%. 根据全球资产管理巨头富达基金所提供的数据从2019年到2024年这5年之间中国上市公司的分红比率是全球主要证券市场当中倒数第一名的澳大利亚最高83.94%马来西亚68.3%香港、欧洲和新加坡都在64%左右世界平均水平是48%而中国电底只有30.17% 但分红少其实只是小问题更大的问题是A股有很多公司长期不断的通过定向增发融资圈钱并且规模都很巨大定向增发简称定增老股民应该都很了解但我还是非常快速的讲解一下 "Ding Zeng" is a way to re-sign a company that lacks money and re-sign Ding Zeng is not like IPO, which is publicly issuing new shares to everyone It is just selling to a few specific targets Usually it is the institutional investor, major shareholders or strategic partner Why do listed companies like to do價格買進更多的股份 Of course, such a good thing will not have the share of retail stocks Retail stocks cannot participate in the purchase of fixed stocks What does this mean for retail stocks? Nothing is done, and the shares are lost And fixed stocks will often let the stock price fall in the short term Because the market knows that the company is going to release new stocks The supply will increase, so the stock price will often fall 所以很多时候A股市场里的定征其实是机构套利散户买单参与定征的机构都是以折扣价买入的等限售期结束后就可以跑售普通股民只能接盘所以中国散户被戏称为共学机 我想用一個生活化的比喻讓你更容易看清楚訂徵的本質假設你和朋友合夥開了一家包子鋪包子鋪原本有十股你有兩股占公司20%的股份有一天包子鋪的老闆習老闆 They fired some relatives and sold them 5 shares and gave them discount The result is Boss Xi got the money Baozi Put shares became 15 shares from 10 shares Your 2 shares from 20% of the company's shares was reduced to 13.3% If you take the money from the new financing but you don't manage the bun shop for example, open a branch or develop a better bun but you just do nothing for example, give yourself and your relatives a high salary, a year-end prize, etc the bun shop will not make money in the next few years finally, those relatives give the shares to others you and other small shareholders will become the unlucky egg of the Beixi city, Mei Fen Hong, and the price of the shares will still fall 你可能會說了,可是西方證券市場也有定向蒸發啊這就回到我前面說的了差別就在於小股東的話語權中國的股東大會投票,控股股東說了算很多上市公司都有一個絕對的大股東普通小股東哪怕上萬人參加股東大會投票加起來也很難撼動大股東 但比如在美国,股东大会上一般是一股一票小股东当中有很多都是大型养老基金或共同基金比如 Vanguard、BlackRock 等等他们本身就是代表普通投资者的机构大户投票时力量非常大 美國還有非常完善的機制來確保小股東的權益比如關聯股東迴避啦激進股東運動等等等這些就非常複雜了下次如果有機會我再出一期專門講這個這次就不細講了而如果這些最後都不可行還有我上面說過的小股東們還可以輕易發起集體訴訟 總之簡單一句話就是中國的股東大會形同虛設小股東是完全沒有話語權的當你沒有話語權的時候大股東和管理層就更有可能亂搞他們定徵之後怎麼利用這筆錢中國的小股東是沒有任何辦法的 And the Western securities market is in a perfect legal framework and financial system As long as the settlement is not in the interest of all shareholders Small shareholders have many ways and methods to prevent the settlement And capital use after monitoring the settlement China has improved its regulatory system in recent years But in 2015 to 2017, the market was very active When 2016 saw the 1.5 trillion yuan Almost 10 times the IPO It seriously diluted the shares of the original shareholders 比如著名的康德辛公司從2012年到2016年間至少三次大額定徵累計融資金額大約100億人民幣後來怎麼著被爆出來連續四年財務造假虛徵119億元利潤大股東挪用資金股價暴跌退市小股東全均覆沒 以上是第一点中国股市有形无实的第二点就是A股它其实并不是一个真正的市场经济郭有企业大约占到中国股市总市值的一半这是世上绝无仅有的郭有企业是党机器的齿轮他们的资源配置是完全听命于政府的是完全不会考虑股东利益的 上面我讲到为什么中国上市公司的分红少上市公司离国企太多也是一个原因很多国企明明账上趴着大笔现金却很少分红因为要服从国家战略刚才我说了中国上市公司分红比率只有30.17%世界倒数第一名比全球平均48%的水平低得多 根据中金的一份报告2018年中国国企实际分红率只有16.1%非金融类的国企更是只有5.8%令人发指更大的问题是国家插手的还不只是国企近年来中共开始把党委组织明确写入公司管理框架内不仅在国企不少民企和上市公司都被要求强化党建入章 The party is involved in major management decisions. This is completely different from the logic of the board of directors and shareholders in the management of Western enterprises. Some may say, "Why should we learn from the West? The country and the government are involved in the enterprise, which is the Chinese characteristic. We can walk our own way." If you want to go your own way, then go your own way Instead of learning the whole financial ecosystem and form of people But learned a foreign currency, internal currency and time All do not learn The problem that the country has too much participation in the capital market and corporate management is The country's goal is always to be in the interest of investors You as a leek This way of knowledge is very funny 在中国的证券市场中,当投资人利益和国家政策发生冲突时,那肯定是政策优先。比如,2021年教培行业双减政策,几乎一夜之间把整个K12教育股清零,投资人损失惨重。这样的是,如果发生在任何一个有现代金融法制的国家,政府必定会被集体诉讼并且付出巨额的赔偿。 總的來說我對中國股市的一句話總結就是這是一個融資市場而不是一個投資市場中共對中國股市的需求就是讓企業和政府能夠從這裡融到資希望這個市場穩定至於股民能不能賺錢是其次的 就跟中共对媒体和言论的管控一样中国股市里有很多政策就是为了两个字维稳我们都知道A股的有所谓的涨停和跌停的机制胡同股票当天上涨或下跌10%就停止交易ST股更低 涨跌5%就停止交易 這種機制在全球主流證券市場美國、歐洲、日本、韓國、香港、新加坡等等都是沒有的這些主流交易市場當然也有熔斷機制但是一般都是整個大盤下跌到一定幅度的時候暫停5到15分鐘讓市場冷靜或者單支股票5分鐘內波動超過10%才會暫停幾分鐘不會說漲跌了多少就全天不讓交易了 In addition, there is almost no way to sell empty in A shares. There are a lot of restrictions on the market share of Rong Quan. The market share of Luo is completely prohibited. In fact, it is almost impossible to acquire impractical shares. Then it is always the national team who enters the market. Or use administrative means to interfere with the market. 所以中国股市看起来似乎跟纳斯达克、标普、日经、恒生等等是同一种东西但其实只有形态一样内涵是完全不同的它就不是一个真正的市场化证券交易市场 Some people may be familiar with it. What's wrong with stability? Okay, nothing wrong. For the country, for those who can get the inside information in advance, Of course, they only need to collect the stock of cattle and the stock of cattle that are bound to come with it. They have earned the wealth of their family and generations. For the retail restaurant, the strict control of the market deprived all the rights and interests of small shareholders, and the market signal was cut off, and the risk price was given to the system. You say, "OK, this is the result." The steady price is always 3000 points. In 2007, 5900 points, and 3800 points after 18 years, there were still a bunch of people who were self-satisfied. Besides the questions brought by a self-sufficient market there are many reasons why A-bill is not liked by self-sufficient investors I have explained the main part of the topic in my last October program But today I will point out two more points The first one is that the profit rate of A-Bank is generally very low I have said this before The average profit rate of 500 world-class companies in 2022 is 11.3% But the average profit rate of Chinese top companies is only 4.4% Second, Chinese companies' financial reports are not reliable. According to the founder of GMT Research in Hong Kong, Turok, the financial report of China is still the most unreliable in Asia. GMT Research is the company that has been warning Hengdao of a thunder in advance of 5 years. 圖洛克也表示中國大陸的分析師所提供的公司研究報告質量很低中國IPO招股書中的風險披露也不完整主要是因為有一些風險你一披露就相當於是在批評中共的政策這些全都被隱藏掉了 So, in the end, if you think you are a top investor, then you may be able to make a little bit of money from the A-share's top-level. But for those who deeply understand the concept of value investment, and want to be a self-sufficient investor through an excellent enterprise, China's stock market is a market that they will never touch. 不過我奉勸那些認為自己像狐狸一般精明的人要小心了也許你最終只會成為你身後那隻大老虎的盤中蠶好了這是我過去一年內第三篇關於中國股市的節目 In the first episode, I will analyze human nature and logic to explain to you the essence and position of Chinese stock market and retail investors In the second episode, I will analyze the statistics and reports of the last 15 years of the upper hand of the upper hand I found the rate of the Chinese bull market I will analyze the data with the most accurate data to tell you why the big bull market in the Chinese stock market is exactly the financial grave of retail investors and the fastest way to return the average of the middle class This episode is to make it clearer from a more broad perspective The top-level system design of the Chinese securities market is destined This is a very unfriendly financing platform for ordinary investors Old fans and friends around me often tell me Put down the bond of helping others and respect others' fate 但有时我真的是忍不住但说实话假如这三期视频都无法说服你远离A股的话那么我只能祝你好运啦这几位在工地上等着你最后呢如果有些小粉红气冲冲的想要到评论区里喷我说中国经济大有前景这一轮牛市就是A股的翻身之作必定要出8000点的话 Actually, you don't need to argue with me If you think A-Guo is good, you buy it You are full of confidence in the CCP Now the loan rate in China is so low You should mortgage the house, add the leverage, and say A-Guo I and my audience are very supportive of you After you buy it, please send the purchase record to my Twitter comment area Let everyone envy 好啦 那我就不阻碍各位大佬發財了我今天就分享到這裡我是老周橫沒冷對之間不會我們下期再見