Everyone Today we'll talk a question. Why some people always be people zha-tied-ting-on? Why some people's people-zoned? First to give you guys a little bit of a little bit. When you'd say, when you're hit the ground, if you're scared of the two-toe fat-worn, each-in-to-tall-pout, you will say to-tall-pout. On the other, if you can't do the question, you'll just go there, you're going to, you're getting hurt, you're getting, to get hurt, or not, there, will be able, or so many, whether something, way, way, so, you'll be sure, you'll shoo-di-ding. This word is not I'm written, is from a way of Japanese author, called Ibn, St.T.Lang, I first I was in Twitter on. I was the first one called Dr. Wong's tweet I wrote this one. I've seen I've got to I can't even in the next in the next comment but not un-dair and but rungan and not people can't The big, small, small, in the in the same-shan-shan when is the choice the most the most the most the most the people and the today, I want to let this can say is a "a-the-court, we use it to call the "tank "mere "Moe' "Muy-tank' The rindsha, this is the wayofa, can't think it like is not a right. But here there was a good at a publicer. Here's more important to be used language, to correct to find in the person. If you know, the rindsard call rinds, this is the language of general. Rensack is a kind of mention, it's a person, there's a person, there can't make-the-s- change-the-s--s-can- people, But this is not to you, it's not tojure you, this is completely to take care of them I'm more more than you know, what's the people are how far from fan of the people, they're doing their own and that's I'm more concerned. The rinds the behavior is to try-t and to make people and to people, but it's to be the people, they're they're there, they're they, We first let's try and look at people's how to their choice their own way. Their choice is what? In social life's world, those faintee, in school, in school, barling, at school, in school, in law and all the those, those on the phone's, those all overpolae are all not to a suites and by the people, but they're with their based-of- but very high-sha-scient chis-eux, We can call it "Renzhar, Mubel, "'Suanzae-Muble, "'select, "'this-tall-sson-Rot-Rogic "'an-kind. "'There are six-the-six. "'This is, "'de-fing-fon-cost-eat. "'This is, "'to-with-to-you-her-in-a-oh-oh-est. "'For-y-one-hack-hally-hally, "'it's a-hack-hally-old-hally. They have to put up to time, to docket, to put in all kinds of for example, be caused people, can be company being school by school, by the police, by the police, jub, by the court, and, and these are these are things, but they're what they want to get the rebuke money, can't get to get to money, and it's full of full of chue, and it can't just a one, it's a kind of a kind of, So, renzzer will choose the risk of The point The street on the people, he will first watch who's be bea-l not-lack-ins Who is taking? Who's just doing? Who's at just doing the target the goal and yeah because those people be found being being found the risk and Those Barring students' were young men's Like Gyeong'u-No-Noos' people, also shalt-sets end up to social, more-guly, many-friend-who-kind-nye-n and character of the same-kind. Because B'Ring, these students used to be effective, while by the school to get-pobo un-pinch, the school and the student's-so-the-fongue to finder the situation is the least the end. In the "Bahing the other people, the people's////////, and the same time, the same, that's people to set-toe, and there's just-debt, "Whosecertains'–ohsame"a, "What-seyeye-that-to-teatheur-allee-te-one-the-tere-to-the-ty-teat people." Because, yasszart these people, let them get-bass, take their work, out of their own questions, let them becko, this is the risk of the least. In the psychology on a word, called Predator Targeting Bias. It's a worded by us. It's a booker's point-helf. "Men' "'ean is not a human-gen, "'and not is the tumbling-s-yet-being, "'but, it's in human-sing, "'it's in human-saint of some "'in' some of the predeterm. "'This on e-chran's in people "'than-send on the other than "'than-send-one. "'So, people, "'there, many, if, "'all, people, 'her'-char-s-ch-send. But not as the dogwood in the animal or the gonging in the sand in the sand their their dich and their their always want to make not the wrong counter cost the least the end the end and the after and the most because this is the busser-me-tale-the-that-should-that-should-that-school naughty, to-your-know-kind-know-kind, sound-word, ""you-be-tossed-one-be-beck-belled-n't-your-belled-know-tossed "officer"""n't-o-know-tossed-you-know-hury-hury-know-hye-hury-all-hury-hru-hury-hurt-h-all-hear-h-hulled-h-hull. As a but shisers, the people's-sword, also as a real-haw-hinged-ren-garde like that. Especially in the field there are not-bishop from-being, from his father-ma's good kids, in the school's a lot of school's of a good-scher in a turn-eastern in the social-teat-o-kind-ty-to-know-kind of the top-o-hore-person They have no, there no, no one's, there, and their own, and their own, and their own side, and everyone can't put other than to write to her. To the whole, it's true to people, and bea-goer, and it's always it. From these life in the school, we can see how, we can see what, In-zhar, at do-in-so-in-all-in-lawed, all-eas-o-were-to-who-went, they're always-e-st-o-y-sach-est-of-reason, they're the most-of-cha-ste-the-movue. But is the most-revolved-so-movue. The rest-one-pun-lens, but the world-cain-you-lety-you-he-he-lough-all. But you meet-one, that you'll get-lust-he-hull-cund-st, even be stent-stern-st. People in the in the life in life in the people in the people in the people are not a busser but it but people there's a lot of people that's that's all of many people you you get you get good happy, but just need to get to you get to you can you get to So, not use a lot of people is good, this is correct to fay-whore, to mapeat people, don't know people who will to take your money, but many people just need to a little bit to you, and from you out of your people, not would not be bullying your kids, but you get over people, some, just need to get a few, just need one, just need one, just need to you, Most of the topsy, the most people also don't know not really Ding to you y'a-trak But, 600,000 of people and some of years and just need have one Ding on you and put you down to turn-you- Dhing-Boch-Bee and that Goal. In here, you cause to cause to not sure just need just need a person. So, you know, to be able to be not so not so not so not so protect, but to protect not easily Renn's a buxie-sever. Will find the easiest-of-the-job-job-the-job. Your in-ean shape, your attitude, your state, your chie-churcher, shes-cac-cuh-do-scient-to-kind-your-stall-your-concuit-hury-your-hound. You can do that is to change the signal of the pyrn, and from low-suff-eas-reou-y-loy-the-sha-old-y-hull-eeeat-hung-hung-thon. redden, all the redden, those are to the RENZAS to say. Now, what are you make you become a low-fonged goal? There are two-of-e two-send like the end-eem- two-meen look-the- look-to- look-each, but the result-to-y--ean-a- seeing-in- these two things I'm in the point in the question, one I'm one, one is the one-s, and the-o--o-o-o- First, we'll let's look at a set-in-sight-in-seeing. Dant-chaed people will not-sure to out-out-out-out-the-fon-threatsign-hine-hout. Their eyes will, in-cuit-thing-of-sight, not-kind-to-thing, they're not-kind-to-she. They're not-haw-s, they're not-hue-suit, not-hru-quy, just tund-tto-tut. Like, I'm afraid people-ttttttting-like. Their body's their his-suptu-sue, hand-hung-tort-be, not the two-bac-bac-baw-hung or such-sue-sue and a sort of these sign-hals in the would be decode to be as ashy-n- but these sign-hands in the in the "much-the- in the people-the-s--att-e-e--be-the--th-te-ffson-l-l-e- This is that means, to these goals the first risk at least. Because to the same people, the most likely will not be backgid, will be doing the not people, it's actually money, people, people will think, that you can't be being, then I would be there, who will give me, and I'm who I'm who I, people, I'm so I'm people so you're being This thought, is actually is in the other scenegings, is there's a little more than the lusomonging, a sentin. A good-to, "Ongy-chings-spoe and being given un'uq'r and it's not a but in the in the 'wee' Why? Because, because lulmonged there's a realtie their behavior, like the animal's of the type of a chance is the is the very easy be caulked. The gai-rensah like to get to rumont-hinged net-weewee to give them the and to give them the fun-nob can't be they can be able to To those instigy very smart and can't people a lot of a lot of a new point to be able like a unit in a group just to use and a minute and then press the sudden they make the they will immediately and they would need to make sure We in the one of each series, I've made up a few example. This is why can't be the same not because because it's because his way, it's more more than reason is he's the person the person's the person's the person's people. Some people from the movie from the movie can't see The child's sonny is a lumont-hing live-was' was a real-mean type. He's unbiased, does his own-kyned the know. When her me-mey-daughtsiao the dead-toe-gey-traked, she'd soon-un-un-hue-hocund-pushed but-all-a-cue-cuit-your-all. So, they've had been given to "eshoe'hulled a chain-the-canned "tack'all'-tack'-tack'-goed-the-can-all'-let. If I'm not yet-type-kind-like-rans-trans-tranded to send-how to, "It's a-hack-it-for-law-to-just-foo. I'm not-hack-all-hru-all-hundred-all-harm-your-harm, is to use me, I'd use it, because I'd send-back, these two-lay-older, though it's not yet-harm-hand-hy-hand-hand-shan-hand-kind-old-o-o-change-old. But, in the same-sum-law-off-your-off-your-old-old-ocean-all-each-o-old-y-old-l-ocean-old-old-you-l-old-old. Since "Tan and lusmong are all the same thing, then, what can't do so can't beaum can't harm to harm to, can't run and quere but? The answer is we'll make PIN' talk to the 16thes. Chen Wend, but not bant, young-and-but-lumonged, and shenwain, this is the act-cum-she, it means you will be their feelings in your own in a situation or in your first, your first, your first, the first un-of-pawang, more not-st-law, but is a long-king. This sort of as a bussher to be a-o-sha--kind-that-law- is a huge-co-cou-ty-court. Because a "Longing' is a un-presenter. He doesn't know you next step what will do what. You can't be able to get in, can't be able to get in fact, and maybe in order, you're in trying to give it, to give it to give him a key. The long-in-zoned-to-send this is a certain-curetion by-shawned. "But-dancet, this is the "'You can't say is the "'You can't say is the "'isn't even if you "'you're going to be able to "'is, in the need-you-sook "'in' "eigh-out-you-beau-heaval.' "'You will because of trouble "'and can't be able to "'is quite 'tallie' "'is the signal is to tell you "'to be able to bea-lawed-you-know-he "'I cannot if I'm not seen "'and I've got a-up-in-day-up-up "'and-you-do-up "'and-do-uped-up. This is a stout will soon-downe to get-res of attack, because they know you not an even you're not a lot of young-and, this is a form of the it means it you will be you don't because you will be in the When you be upyy-infant When you will take action This one Not even is It's not It's not It's effective Let's get to If you If it's hurt You will make it And you We'll We're We're We're We're We're Not It's a It's a rule It's a can't be It means that you all your actions is through the brain and think and it's just a real-as- you're not you're not easily by the one by the people and will not by the people will take the people and this sort of that's that's to make you use you and to break you and to get to you get to very, very get to and Because of the education, in the Chinese's world, many people can can't and lumbonged and the other people even even by lumbong down to the in the other in the other many years, the the the just the and the russer and that he said "iongant is "heemann is 'ye' 'ye' 'we' Chetnaud is too the fear and lack of self-ass-its- person. Chet-noh people don't think it to get to get to the head in the challenge in front un-sor before. To be much so you lack fear and much people and people who's there and you and the way to make the being the that's there's, that's there is In Cetna and Luamang, two extreme, is "Yomack. Younger of a speed of self-do of self-sign, will be right-sion is worth to meet-the, what is it should be to be. For example, a young-to- a strong on the front of people, and people will be able to be able to to give to give a little to trycing a to the and the Yom Gets And who can feel to feel like a good. This is people the human and that's young people don't because he can't be able to be able to be able to give in a certain and in some way and make a certain actions. but un-want, but not un-doubt, young but not rung-and-but-lum. This these types of traits in a particular person, certainly will form a strong. This kind of a key-tron to the chie-shundered to the same-sue, this is a long-gene, there's-of-heat-of-heat-of-the-shoe-te-all-the-cuit-te-cure. Conchus, it, could be put-out-out-tout-tout-tout-up-y-chue-tie-tie-tie-te-a-te-te-te-rerererere. It's not to make. Or, or to find another-mebion, but. A A man who's Auxeddon's Some say their work He often job in in the during in a during the in control people and the people who can't keep being fast and and they They look eyes And long to keep sows and not who don't still this this style relax alertness and some the security He will be Getschievous, but will let those present-in-law-she-fynes think this guy will have ready. He saw me, it's not too. It's still. This one in the in-n-rum, chan-dinct-in- this-relaxed alertness to show the and strength-in-and-stri. He let's in the people-twee and-trap-in-law-exam--bent. This is a-gall-er-er-er-er-er-er-er-er-er-er. So, no-tank, and be too-lum-a-n-o-mong, shan-want, this quality-z-zsche, will chom-sue-sue-bogg and make all those in-seys-des-thes-as-a-beck-all-you-cli-cuit-a-bu-wraught-cest. To-one-fon-few-the-ta-all-vis. Because you're going to beck. Here, there's a picture about to show three different people, from being ryan-sah-sang-hally-mobial the gai-lety. The top-the-shrum the person and un-were-since-ed-weigh- people. They're being t'ra-sang-mobbion the same-and-seh-tall-harm-mobbiont their gai-lety-six. The at the same light-sor is the down-chae people. They become a renzger's harm-movial of the guayr is 90. Here, I want to tell-dial a few-your- every person's too much, but, but, chen-and-em- and-were- not-kind- and-one- through-to-h-the-thew-tale-, through-she-tere-tall-hame and through-moddhens and-the-cern-pment-cern-the-pign-ty-he-ty-the-the-s. In China, many, not give to kids don't give to the students, don't give kids how to give people, how with people and have eye-shen and show, there's not much people, they're not, some people, will in the in the doing on, in the time, and with the computer, and some don't, some of learning, with that get, and then can't, to be out of the, that's, just l' was, is l'g, is l'n, just, it, and,, just, Many people from people like to give people talking people, and you're talking about, eye, eyes and not the head, and it's not really, and the people, and talk about, the same is the language, and especially is your life, and I'm talking about not, if you and the class and and family, with people, and the people, and with people, or with the on the other people, to learn to pay the one, to see the eyeing, keep the eye touch, don't know to be able to sit-to- keep-to- keep-to-all- other-en- people, the people, people, always like, and-o--he-n--en-en- Renzza to find out of the danger and they like to find outpile-er-be-er-sinceed-de-seen's their eyeson. They like to jett-earned or shengyz-chings-she-to-the-send, or shing-chings-she-the-the-threat-out, because this is the low-foncent-lea-cline-cli-court-cuit-cest-cest-cest-cuit-cest-cuit-cest-cue. Beemn't be their Toecee a great-efficient, a very effective is in in a directs in a way to set up a new thing and we can call it also being called it when when someone put put to you don't need you you need you need to make and you need to keep to give and just to keep not you help us make you don't you can't your behind the This is your sense and security of the whole thing, a border clear people will make sure about a way around, people know their deepsion is where what can't know what can say, what can't say, what can do, what's can do, what's not this thing can't, it's a big down to get back people people to get back the people. There's a book called Sindelae's name Dan. Xindle is a king of not a person, he's a person he's a not a no one but he has there's their rules and have their and there have their and He has there's Qiang, have been the NACI general can't feel to his end up its and he can make sure it's not to make a lot of people to make people and the people and his that's so it will get to give that to be a possible would give it could make that the situation in in the in the in the community in the you working the the company, you can't There will be that many people, no people can't keep them, no one can take them to them to get up up, these people not the people are the most the end of but they're all the people, but they're not really, because in the day-to- through the un-gings and through the and many people, people, people know it's there, there's there, it's quite, it's, and it's, and This is a person's chie-chang. Back to E. Bain-Sing-Talong that one way, with the challenge and and way-we-sou-s, you will lose to very sad. Yomacant, in front of you're going to be small. Also, we've said, the 16th-jure, chen-wain, but not bant-cuit, young-gant, but not-lumonged, Today, all the new story is very simple. It's not you can't make you to be into a head on the head-to-e and you through your time to get to and then to change and to get a and not can't and be bad people can be not and it's able to and get to you to get to there three key there. First, is in the "Theirn't know-to-the-one to keep-tee to-heat. Sector-teeattings of self, the by-nong-teachs in "'It's in-hocene-shin'-harm. "'Thicey-to-in-harm, "'seqy-dhack-to-de-day-seigne. "'The second-a-old-haw-haw-haw-haw-hyehaw-your-dell, "'to-shy-old, to body-y-ion, "'you-hally-scien, to-since, "'heal-hue-hain, Let's calm but not yet, young but not unarmed but rumin, become the third ten-sing. The third point is, to have a clear point. Through everyday-sum-saint, let the around-the-of-your-being, know-your-the-bed-the-the-the-threat, this one-gen-kinds, is the end-tie-one-concuit, is to bea-one-he, and over-each-he-hye-hid-hye-hid-hye-hid-hye-hye-hhach-hah. A one of self-sign, you know strength, you can't, but you know to control, the people, is the people the people the people, the people and the people's in people's, to be in your un-seh-of- today's said it. Today's said welcome, welcome in the people share the question. Next- see see Bye.