My name is Michelle Thaller and I am an  
astronomer. I work at NASA's 
Goddard Space Flight Center.
How astronomers seek to answer the 
biggest questions in the universe.
There's sort of two words that float about. 
There's astronomer and astrophysicist. And  
you know, it kind of depends on whether you're 
trying to put on a more friendly or formal vibe.  
I think they really these days mean the same 
thing. I think there was a time when there was  
sort of a separation of duties. There were people 
that say a hundred years ago would would map the  
stars and create all these wonderful catalogues 
of stars and you might call those astronomers.  
You know that the name is from astronomy, to 
name the stars. And then there were people that  
tried to figure out what the stars were and 
how they worked, what the science of it was,  
you know, behind all that. Those would be the 
astrophysicists. And these days, the two studies  
are really the same. If you're an astronomer or 
an astrophysicist, you pretty much do the same  
thing these days. The word that was probably 
the best word, astrology, to study the stars,  
that one was already taken. A lot of the questions 
that I get from members of the public are these  
vast conjectural questions like, you know, is 
there a multiverse here? What happened before  
the big bang? So, for my doctorate, you know, for 
my research, um, I studied binary stars, you know,  
I I studied two stars that orbit each other. 
And most stars in the universe are like that,  
by the way. And uh in the case of my stars, they 
had these wonderful colliding winds of high energy  
particles that produced these giant shocks in 
the sky. The fun thing is that for for a while  
at least and maybe today, uh there are some stars 
in the sky that I've probably spent more time  
with than anybody else in the world. You know, I 
observed them for hours and hours trying to figure  
out how these uh colliding atmospheres worked. 
In the case of myself, I'm an observational  
astronomer. I went to observatories all over the 
world about 25 years ago when I was most active in  
research. I did a lot of research in Australia uh 
in Arizona, the Kit Peak telescopes, Mount Stromlo  
in Arizona. I also used a lot of satellite data. 
I I had data from X-ray satellites and uh the  
Hubble Space Telescope. I actually got some time. 
You see, as an astronomer, you are allowed to to  
write into these observatories. It usually happens 
once a year. And there is a panel that basically  
assesses you know what would all these people 
around the world like to do with the Hubble Space  
Telescope. And the this this panel of astronomers 
actually decides you know who should get priority.  
One of the things about being an astronomer is you 
end up doing a lot of writing. You end up doing a  
lot of writing asking for time on these telescopes 
and then hoping that your proposal gets selected.  
Another thing is you end up asking for a lot of 
time to write grants for money to support your  
work. you know, if you get some time on the Hubble 
Space Telescope, often it comes with an amount of  
money to support the time you're going to do 
that research. So, it it turns out that being  
an astronomer, all of the training is about 
the math and the physics and you the computer  
science and then what you actually do dayto-day 
is often a lot of writing and a lot of trying to  
organize proposals and grants and how you're 
going to support yourself doing your science.  
And then if you work for a large organization like 
NASA, uh, as some of your time as well is usually  
assigned to some specific mission, you know, some 
specific space telescope where you're going to be  
helping clean up the data, figure out how we're 
going to issue a call for proposals, organize the  
panels that are going to vet and look at all these 
different things. So in a way, you become kind of  
an administrator. A lot of meetings. I think that, 
you know, the normal life cycle of an astronomer  
is probably 80% like business person. a lot of 
meetings, a lot of grants, a lot of budgets. But  
then, at least for me, there really was this 
time. It doesn't happen so much when you're a  
more mature astronomer, but when you're really 
young and out in the field and making your own  
discoveries, it really does feel like you're sort 
of alone with the night sky all by yourself up up  
on top of that mountain and you're you're seeing 
things coming down through your telescope that,  
you know, it's a it's a minor advance, but you 
no human being has has ever seen before. And it's  
it's a wonderful feeling of empowerment and sort 
of, you know, kind of collaborating with the sky  
and and seeing what we can figure out. One of the 
things is when you get a doctorate, you have to  
produce some kind of original research, something 
that's never really been been done before. And  
that's not as hard as it sounds. That sounds very 
intimidating. I mean, how am I going to think of  
an idea that nobody's ever thought of before? But 
nothing in astronomy happens alone. You know what  
happens when you're a graduate student after 
college is you will join a professor doing his  
or her research with them sort of as an apprentice 
and uh and then over time as you get more familiar  
with the work they will give you a little piece of 
that research like hey you go ahead and and take  
this part over yourself. You don't really need to 
think of things entirely you know just off the top  
of your head and and come up with brilliant ideas 
out of nowhere. You start little by little working  
with a group of astronomers and then slowly 
you start to ask your own questions. you know,  
maybe they've never had time on a telescope 
to look up this little bit of it, you know,  
or or this little bit of it over here is a new 
question nobody thought of. And and eventually  
you realize that what you're doing is something 
that hasn't been done before. I guess there were  
probably about a dozen stars in the sky, but there 
were three that I really really focused on. And in  
the in every case, these were binary stars. And 
these were stars that were very massive. Stars  
that were say, you know, anywhere between like 
15 and 50 times the mass of the sun. big stars.  
They actually only orbited around each other every 
couple of days or at most about a week. So these  
are very big stars in very close orbits. And so it 
should make sense these stars are pouring off you  
not only light but but high energy particles, 
this wind of particles that we call stellar  
winds. And then they collide in between these two 
stars. Sometimes one of their winds will not be as  
strong as the other. So the wind from one sort 
of overtakes the other one and kind of blasts  
away the wind from the other one. And as they turn 
around each other, you actually sort of have this  
wonderful kind of three-dimensional view of how 
that shock wave goes all the way around. And so  
I use a technique called tmography, which is the 
same sort of thing you use in a CAT scan or, you  
know, something like an MRI where you're trying 
to produce a three-dimensional scan of inside  
the human body. In this case, the instrument 
goes around you. But in the case of the stars,  
the stars would go around each other. And then I 
could use this sort of software mainly developed  
for medicine to actually try to figure out the 
structure of these shock waves. This is you know  
just sort of work a day astronomy you nothing 
you know all that incredible or sexy about it but  
it helps you understand stars better. It turns 
out that these shock waves are responsible for  
producing a lot of the molecules that we find 
in space. You know stars create uh you know  
atoms. They fuse hydrogen into helium and then 
eventually helium into larger atoms over time.  
But these shock waves, at least in the cooler 
parts of them, can produce things like water,  
the water molecule. And there are, you know, there 
are some binary stars, like there are some in the  
uh the Orion Nebula that are producing enough 
water in a single day along these shock waves  
to fill the oceans of the Earth like 60 times over 
in a single day. Now, obviously, this isn't liquid  
water. This is water in a in a molecular form, a 
pretty hot gas, actually. But that's where a lot  
of the the molecules responsible for life can come 
from is from these shock waves. So it's a way of  
trying to figure out just little by little how 
the universe really does work, how stars work.  
So my research is much more observational, much 
more about stars. I certainly took classes in  
cosmology, the study of the universe as a whole. 
I took classes in quantum mechanics, you know,  
graduate level quantum mechanics, graduate level 
electromagnetism, all of that. People often start  
right off with the, you know, are there parallel 
universes? And I'd rather they sort of ask me,  
you know, what are the importance of binary stars? 
There's honestly not all that many astronomers by  
number that do theoretical cosmology. You know, 
most of us are trying to figure out things like  
how stars are born and how they like live their 
lives and die. We're trying to figure out what's  
left over after a star explodes, a black hole, a 
neutron star, or we're trying to figure out how  
galaxies work, how many galaxies there are, how 
do we observe them, how do they change over time.  
There's only a few of us that are trying to answer 
questions like, you know, what happened before the  
big bang or, you know, are there multiveres? 
We we all study that to an extent. We all go  
to lectures at the conferences. I love going to 
the ones on, you know, quantum theory and quantum  
gravity. Most astronomers study things that are a 
bit more concrete than that, if very far away. So,  
it's often the case that, you know, I'm giving 
some lecture on this the wonderful new images  
of Saturn from one of our spacecraft like Cassini 
and they're so beautiful and we're learning things  
about the atmosphere and look at these pictures of 
the these little moons we took in the ring system  
and we're studying the ring system and we have a 
wonderful lecture. I turn to the audience and say,  
"Hey, any questions?" You know, and somebody 
raises their hand and the first one is, you know,  
are there multiple universes? It's like Saturn. 
There are some words that are are really easy  
to throw around and in science they become 
interestingly complicated. People often say,  
you know, do you believe such and such is 
true? You know, do do you believe the big  
bang is true? You know, do you believe that the 
idea of multiple universes is true? You know, a  
lot of these things. And when you're a scientist, 
you're aware that what what you're doing is you're  
constantly trying to approach reality. you're 
trying to get closer and closer to describing  
something very well, but you you know you're not 
all the way there yet. And it's quite possible  
that we we never will be. It's quite possible that 
human beings with our our limited senses, our our  
limited brains even, you know, won't really 
know what the true nature of reality is. It's  
it's one of these kind of wonderful things that, 
you know, truth can change. you know, you know,  
hundred years ago, people uh were certain that the 
universe was not expanding, you know, and and of  
course we found out that it was. And you have to 
be able sometimes to take your your very precious  
images, you know, models of what the universe 
is like, about what reality is like, you know,  
even about what the definition of truth is. You 
need to make sure that you're ready to change when  
better information comes on board. in physics at 
least for the last hundred hundred years that that  
has really challenged us to leave behind our human 
ideas of of common sense uh the very definition  
and perhaps existence of space and time. The whole 
idea about what is reality, what is existence, you  
know, what am I is a very very complex question 
now to answer. I mean to give you some ideas  
about this there there are some things that are 
are are very simple like what is the interior of  
the sun like? It's obviously something we've never 
directly observed but we see energy pouring out  
of the sun. Uh there are actually uh waves almost 
like earthquake waves that go around the sun that  
help us to study the interior the way those waves 
travel. But do we know exactly how the core of the  
sun works? No. No we don't. There are things that 
we get pretty close to but we just don't really  
have the observational ability to do so. But then 
there are questions like what are space and time  
really? For so long we've just sort of taken it 
for granted that space and time exist around us.  
Time flows in one direction. Space extends perhaps 
to infinity. But then there was also a time when  
we we didn't think that air was anything. People 
didn't realize that we actually live, you know,  
at the bottom of this wonderful ocean of air that 
is our our atmosphere. People took it for granted  
that that air existed. That was actually, you 
know, proven in the 18th century that this was  
actually something. Einstein showed us that space 
and time absolutely cannot be the simple way we  
perceive them. It it all is related around the 
speed of light. The speed of light is always  
constant to any observer. One of the myths about 
Einstein was that he pulled all of these amazing  
ideas just kind of, you know, out of his head 
from nowhere that he wasn't part of the scientific  
establishment. Well, in fact, he was. Uh he was a 
professor. uh he was actually a graduate student  
trying to get a job when he was working at that 
patent office that he had that miracle year where  
he came up with the the theories of special and 
general relativity among other things. So here's  
an example about allowing yourself to define 
whether something is true in kind of a bit more of  
an active way. Isaac Newton was able to describe 
very very well how gravity worked. He was really  
one of the first people that said there's this 
force of gravity and he just said that it's a  
force. this force permeates the universe and this 
is why the planets orbit the sun you know this is  
why apples fall from trees is they're reacting to 
this force and by using his equation of gravity  
you could calculate that force very very well so 
you had this you know great thing the force of  
gravity the force exists it binds the universe 
together but then you have to ask the question  
okay what what do we mean by that what is the 
force of gravity what is it really what what  
what causes it and it took Albert Einstein to say 
that that what we think of as gravity is actually  
a curvature of space and time. Things have to 
follow space and time. We are all embedded in the  
space and time of the universe. So if that space 
and time has a shape to it, a curve to it, we  
have to follow that. Light has to follow that. You 
know, light itself that has no mass can actually  
bend and go into a black hole. And that's because 
the light has to travel through space and time and  
the space and time itself is bent. So all of a 
sudden there was this answer. What is the force  
of gravity? It's a bending of space and time. So 
is that it? Is that the end of those questions  
that we can ask there? Well, how about the rather 
obvious next one. What is space and time? Okay,  
there's this thing that Einstein called spacetime 
that that you know space and time are sort of  
mixed together. They're they're two sides of the 
same coin. When you change one, the other has to  
change. If you are in a gravitational field and 
and space is bent, time actually slows down. It  
actually affects time as well. We know that these 
two things are bound together. But what are they?  
Time can be different for different observers 
depending on your velocity. If you're going very  
close to the speed of light, as people observe you 
going by, they see your time is very slowed down.  
If you're actually a photon going at the speed of 
light, time stops entirely. So what do we mean by  
this thing called time? And this is now what some 
of the major physicists of the world are grappling  
with. And they are trying to come up with some 
very interesting answers. I think answers that  
will be very challenging for us. Imagine being 
a physicist back in the early 1900s and having  
this this young Albert Einstein tell you space 
and time are bendable. You can change them. You  
can manipulate them. You might have thought they 
were crazy. How about looking at space and time  
instead as a consequence of quantum mechanics? A 
lot of people have been saying that relativity and  
quantum mechanics don't match. They don't work 
together. And this is true. This has been true  
since the beginning of relativity and quantum 
mechanics at about the same time. Relativity  
says that if you have a certain amount of mass, 
you can actually say space bends this much. And  
quantum mechanics says that everything is down to 
probabilities. The universe never has set answers,  
but maybe the probabilities of a particle being 
here versus there. Even the curvature of gravity  
must somehow be probabilistic. And Einstein didn't 
like that. there was no way to work that into his  
equations that actually, you know, made them both 
work at the same time. What if we were asking the  
wrong question? What if we're not looking at two 
different things? What if we could actually say  
that spaceime itself is a consequence of quantum 
mechanics, not something separate from it, not two  
things that are clashing together? And this is 
the idea now that perhaps quantum entanglement,  
if you look at it correctly, is spaceime. 
Now quantum entanglement isn't just a term  
you can throw off very very easily but this is 
something that we have now observed and been able  
to replicate in laboratories all across the world 
even in space actually. If two objects interact  
together they can actually sort of become in a 
sense the same system under the laws of quantum  
mechanics. So let me just give you a very simple 
example of this. A lot of people know the model of  
an atom where you have this uh nucleus of protons 
and neutrons and the electrons can be in different  
orbits around there. In fact, in in a single orbit 
around the nucleus, there can be two electrons,  
but those electrons can't be exactly the same. 
You can't have two that are identical. They have  
to have opposing spins, angular momentum. It 
turns out you can have two electrons in each  
one of these orbits, but the electrons can't be 
identical. They have to be spinning in opposite  
directions. It's a strange idea that electrons 
spin, but at least you can say that there's  
some kind of intrinsic angular momentum. What we 
think of as something spinning, that's actually  
a property that a particle can have, whether or 
not there's actually like a physical little ball.  
Electrons are not little balls, but they do have a 
property of spin of uh angular momentum. You could  
have two of them in the same orbit as long as they 
have opposing spins. One spinning one way, the  
other one's spinning the other way. So, say that 
one is spinning, you know, up and one is spinning  
down. the way my thumbs are pointing, you know 
that these two electrons have to have different  
spins. So, what happens if you actually take 
them out of that system? You take them away from  
the atom entirely and now you've got these two 
little electrons somewhere in space and then you  
know that they have to have opposing spins because 
they once were in that same orbit. Well, okay. So,  
now separate them. Separate them by a couple of 
feet, maybe a couple of miles. How about a couple  
hundreds of miles? Maybe there's no limit. We 
found out that if you use some sort of energy  
to change the spin of one of these electrons, the 
other one basically instantly knows that that's  
happened. And it's not that there is a signal 
passing between one of these to another because it  
doesn't travel even at the speed of light. It is 
an instantaneous flip. It's not a signal traveling  
because these two things are basically the same 
quantum system. In the rules of quantum mechanics,  
they are the same object. So there's no signal 
really to travel to a quantum system. There  
really isn't any such thing as space or time. It 
will adjust instantaneously because it's the same  
system whether it's microscopic or whether it's 
many thousands of miles apart. They're the same  
thing. Could it be that everything is entangled 
to everything else in some way? Well, I mean,  
there once was a time when the universe was very 
small. You know, the time right after the big  
bang where in a way we were all kind of the same 
particle. That particle has changed and expanded.  
But is it possible to think that in some way we're 
actually the same quantum system to everything in  
the universe. And what we perceive of as space 
and time is the degree to which we're entangled.  
We're entangled more to things that are closer to 
us that have a chance to interact with us. The air  
in this room, the space that's only outside in 
my yard. I'm less entangled to things that I've  
not been able to interact with much for a long 
time. Things like distant galaxies, I haven't been  
close to them since the beginning of the universe. 
Einstein asked, "What is gravity really?" And now  
we have to ask, what is spaceime really? And we 
know it can't be as simple as the way we perceive  
it. Maybe the underlying quantum reality of the 
universe is that everything in a way really is  
still the same quantum system. I've always thought 
when people think about alien civilizations  
and they say the flying saucers and UFOs and 
spaceships, I kind of wonder if the next step  
in really understanding reality is that there's no 
such thing as distance. And maybe a very advanced  
civilization that can somehow manipulate that. You 
don't have to travel anywhere in a spaceship. You  
simply figure out how you access this entanglement 
of the rest of the universe. Could it be that you  
are really the same quantum system as everything 
in the universe at once? And that degree of  
entanglement is what we think of as space, as 
time, as gravity. That's an amazing idea and  
it's one that more and more people are starting 
to look at. Do we know this is true yet? No. This  
is still conjectural. But the physics is working 
very well. And one of the promising things is that  
the equations of gravity emerge now from quantum 
mechanics. They're no longer general relativity,  
quantum mechanics, they don't mix. You start with 
quantum mechanics and gravity emerges from it,  
from the degree of entanglement. So stay put 
for a couple more decades. And uh like I said,  
maybe someday we're actually going to figure out 
what the underlying structure of this entanglement  
is and then we can actually move outside of 
space and time. When you are pure energy,  
you have to travel at the speed of light. A 
photon has to travel at the speed of light. It  
can't go any other speed. A photon can't exist in 
a state where it's only moving at say 20 m hour.  
It has to travel at the speed of light. And when 
you're traveling at the speed of light, you don't  
experience space or time. You're probably familiar 
with Einstein's idea that as you go faster and  
faster, closer to the speed of light, time slows 
down for you compared to an observer watching you.  
If I'm sitting here still on the Earth and I watch 
somebody in a spaceship whizzing by at half the  
speed of light, I see them very very slowed down 
compared to me. And when you're actually going at  
the speed of light itself, time stops. That means 
that light does not experience space or time in  
any kind of extended way. All points in space are 
one and all time. All points in time are one. Time  
and space don't exist to a photon the way it does 
to us. And yet I am made of something that you  
can convert to photons and back and forth. And I 
experience space and time. I experience those as  
extended properties. There's a duality to the 
universe. And I think this is going to become  
one of the most important things for modern 
physics that the next revolutions in physics.  
Light around us. I mean, it's coming from the sun 
through my windows. It's coming at me through,  
you know, the lights that we have in the studio 
doesn't experience the same universe I do. to it  
in a real way. The universe never expanded. All 
points of time and space are still one from the  
perspective of a photon. And I am made of photons 
kind of. But why do I experience space and time?  
Space and time as we perceive them cannot be the 
end story. There has to be a different perspective  
that shows us a reality that that our human brains 
don't perceive yet. But the physics all around us  
of something something as simple as light demands 
it. The things that kind of give me chills is just  
how little we understand the nature of reality 
itself. If something bouncing off me right now  
doesn't experience the universe as having even 
expanded, what does that mean? So that equation  
equals mc^2. I mean it's it's useful. You can 
use it to power nuclear reactions. You can use  
it for particle accelerators. But it actually 
sort of claws away the fabric of reality itself  
and challenges us to ask what's underneath. To 
me, I think one of the the most amazing things  
about the universe is the question what is energy? 
And this can go very very deep. Uh you know a lot  
of us are familiar with you know energy is it 
takes energy to accelerate something like you  
know to actually like throw a softball that takes 
you know energy chemical energy from your arms or  
you could say something has potential energy like 
it's sitting at the top of a hill and it's prone  
to roll down the hill in the gravity field of the 
earth that's actually called potential energy. But  
then there's also the energy that's just intrinsic 
in matter. One of the things that always gets me  
about this is that energy, light, you know, light 
is sort of a form of pure energy and us, you know,  
matter, we're made of particles like protons and 
neutrons and electrons. They seem so different.  
They seem to have completely different views of 
the universe as well, which I think is one of  
the more interesting and disturbing things I know 
about in modern physics. Let's just think about  
the idea that energy and mass really are somehow 
the same thing. that mass is some like coagulated  
stored form of energy. That means the two of them 
you can actually go from energy to mass and and  
back and forth. And that's the famous equation 
that Einstein came up with equals mc^2 that in  
any amount of mass there is an equivalent amount 
of energy and the two are basically the same  
things. The universe actually doesn't seem to see 
much difference between mass and energy. As long  
as the amount is the same, it can exist in either 
form. And let me give you some examples of that.  
The way a nuclear reaction works like a nuclear 
fusion reaction is you convert some amount of mass  
into pure energy. Nuclear fusion actually brings 
particles together, slams them into larger atoms  
and in the process energy is released. So a little 
bit of mass is lost but energy is produced. It  
also goes the other way. In a particle accelerator 
you get more and more energy because of collisions  
of particles colliding together. They produce so 
much energy that as long as as a given particle  
has that amount of energy, any particle can pop 
out of that reactor. And that's how we find new  
particles. As we get to higher and higher energies 
in a particle accelerator, just having that amount  
of energy around the universe can manifest 
it now as mass takes a lot of energy equals  
mc^ squ. Energy equals mass time the speed of 
light squared. That's a lot. But energy and  
mass pretty much are the same thing. One of the 
ways the universe seems to do this is something  
called virtual particles that if you have um you 
know just just the energy you know around you the  
energy of space and time itself there sort of 
an inherent energy just in the universe that  
energy can actually become mass it'll actually 
form what we call virtual particle pairs like  
an electron and its antimatter equivalent 
a posetron. those two particles will just  
literally pop out of the universe because there's 
that amount of energy around and then pretty much  
always they just annihilate each other. They 
just go back. Matter and antimatter annihilate  
back into pure energy. And this is happening 
all around you. Everywhere around you in space,  
these little virtual particles are forming and 
collapsing together all the time. Some of the  
more interesting things happen in the universe 
when those particles get separated. Uh one example  
is around a neutron star. It can actually make 
a beam of energy coming off the magnetic poles  
of the neutron stars by having virtual particles 
be created and then accelerated by the magnetic  
field. So all of a sudden you have this energy 
that wasn't there before produced by the virtual  
particles themselves. As you get to higher 
energies, you know, say you have a very very  
strong magnetic field, very high energy. Again, 
we find these around neutron stars. That can start  
creating lots and lots of these virtual particle 
pairs. And the more energy you have, the more of  
these little virtual particles you get until space 
itself takes on an aspect of having mass. The  
density of these virtual particles right around a 
neutron star, even in empty space itself, would be  
about three times the density of iron. It's just 
just unbelievable. So energy and mass really are  
the same thing. They're two sides of the same 
coin. They can be converted back and forth to  
each other, and the universe doesn't really care. 
It sees them both the same way. When people think  
about the most dramatic things in space, they they 
tend to go immediately to black holes, which are,  
you know, absolutely incredible. You know, out of 
control gravity that you can actually, you know,  
suck light back in. It's just amazing. But I think 
neutron stars deserve a little more love because a  
neutron star is also created when a massive star 
dies, but it doesn't have quite enough mass to  
actually collapse into a black hole. It actually 
leaves behind a thing, you know, a physical thing  
that you can study. So while black holes are 
just sort of this bottomless pit, you know,  
with neutron stars, you have this very strange 
thing that you can look at them, you can observe  
them, you can take real measurements of, and 
you're looking at something that is mind-blowing,  
and in some ways our physics really isn't ready 
to describe yet. The thing about a neutron star,  
you know, why why do we call it a neutron 
star? For one thing, and I'm I'm going to  
really oversimplify here, but basically when you 
think about an atom, you have protons and neutrons  
in the nucleus of the atom, and then electrons are 
in in orbitals around farther away from around the  
nucleus. Amazingly, the gravity of a neutron 
star is so strong that it actually collapses  
the electrons into the nucleus. The gravity 
crushes electrons into the nucleus. And if  
you crush an electron and a proton together, one 
is negatively charged, one is positively charged,  
you will get a neutron. A neutron actually will 
naturally decay sometimes into an electron and you  
know a proton. You have an object that's mainly 
made of neutrons. There are some protons as well.  
And it basically has the density of an atomic 
nucleus, but it's about 10 miles across. I mean,  
that's like one big nucleus. 10 miles across. It's 
incredible. And because there was so much collapse  
involved in their forming, you know, when when 
you think about what they call the conservation  
of angular momentum, if something is spinning and 
stars actually do spin, if you collapse that down,  
you actually spin up much faster. It's the classic 
ice skater analogy. You have an ice skater with  
her arms out spinning around and then as she draws 
them in, you can watch that ice skater spin faster  
and faster. Same thing happens. But in this case, 
you actually have a ball that is about, you know,  
10 miles across spinning 500 times a second. I 
mean, I mean, that in itself is just mind-blowing  
to think of, right? Something that big spinning 
that fast. Now, recently, neutron stars had  
played this important role in explaining something 
that we had no explanation for. They were very,  
very mysterious. In fact, there were some people 
that were wondering if we were actually looking  
at might be a signal from an advanced alien 
civilization. Those are called uh fast radio  
bursts. Now, uh fast radio bursts have been in 
the news for a couple of years because there  
was so much energy in these mysterious bursts of 
radio emission that we couldn't explain what was  
going on. So for example, we would have uh you 
know our radio telescopes would register a burst  
of emission and the uh that burst would last say a 
millisecond 1,000th of a second. That's about how  
long these things would last. But in that 1,000th 
of a second enough energy was radiated similar to  
what the sun puts out in a week in a millisecond. 
And so we were getting these signals from you know  
all over the sky. We were trying to figure out 
what that could possibly be. How could you make  
that much of a tight burst of radiation in that 
small amount of time at those incredibly high  
energies? So, the race was on to try to figure out 
what these fast radio bursts really were. Luckily,  
we have many, many things that are at our disposal 
to try to study these things. Right now, we have  
many high energy telescopes that actually are 
orbiting the Earth that measure things like X-rays  
and gamma rays, the most uh energetic types of 
light. light you only get if something is in the  
millions or billions of degrees. It'll actually 
emit X-rays and gamma rays. A wonderful thing  
is that we actually started to be able to kind of 
pinpoint to where these things were coming from in  
the sky. And as we did that, they actually seem 
to line up with neutron stars. So neutron stars  
are most likely responsible for these fast radio 
bursts. Now, exactly what's happening is something  
that we don't really know yet, but it probably has 
something to do with almost like an earthquake.  
an earthquake, you know, you you have something, 
you know, our something in our crust shifts and  
there all these waves that go through the earth. 
It's actually the way that we know the interior  
of the earth is by studying those waves. You know, 
we've never been able to actually take a sample of  
the fact that the earth has magma all the way down 
until you get to a at first a liquid metal core,  
then a solid metal core. No one's ever seen 
that physically, but we actually watch how  
these waves of compression go through the earth 
and we can put together what the interior of the  
earth must be like. The same thing may be 
possible for neutron stars, but on a much  
more energetic scale. You have this this this 
ball of of neutrons. Incredible densities,  
incredible temperatures. And we think that there 
must be a crust of neutrons actually that actually  
forms on the outside of these stars. And inside 
is probably a fluid, a fluid of pure neutrons.  
We know this because neutron stars as they spin 
sometimes seem to sort of slosh around almost like  
a water balloon. So, we've modeled that to be sort 
of a crystallin thin crust. I can't imagine what  
that would be like. I mean, for one thing, that 
the gravity would be so intense near that crust  
that it would just crush you into just particles 
basically on the surface of that neutron star.  
But if that crust were to have a flaw in it and 
there was some sort of uh you know a quake, it  
shifted somehow, it would send compression waves 
through the neutron star and release tremendous  
amounts of energy in a quick little moment of the 
crust actually sort of refiguring itself. So right  
now our best explanation is that these amazingly 
mysterious fast radio bursts are probably neutron  
star quakes. And just like earthquakes have 
taught us so much about the interior of the earth,  
now we're looking at the signal, you know, even 
in a thousandth of a second, take that signal,  
pull it apart, and try to find the structure 
that's going on inside that burst of radiation  
and see if we can reconstruct what the inside of 
a neutron star is like. Neutron stars really are  
these real monsters. Unlike black holes, you 
can see them. You can see their surfaces. You  
can actually map how the radiation is coming off 
them. When it comes to really mysterious parts of  
the universe, but things that you actually can 
measure, I'd say go for some neutron stars. The  
closest neutron stars to us are very far away. 
You know, they're on the order of many hundreds  
or thousands of light years. So, luckily, they 
don't really cause any uh trouble for us. But the  
question I've always wondered is how close could 
you actually get to one of these things and and  
make a measurement before you would just be fried 
by radiation? Or in in the case of a neutron star,  
something stranger still. A lot of people are 
familiar with Einstein's famous equation E= MC^2  
which says that energy is equal to mass times the 
speed of light squared. And what that really means  
is that in any amount of of mass, so if I think 
about like the mass of my little finger, there's a  
tremendous amount of energy. So if I could convert 
my little finger into pure energy, the nuclear  
bombs that were dropped on Japan, you know, 
converted on the order of like a dime's worth of  
mass. So, you know, there would be many, many, you 
know, nuclear warheads right in my little fingers  
worth of energy. But E= MC^² also goes the other 
way. If you have a lot of energy, that basically  
starts acting the same way as mass. And it does so 
in something called virtual particles. If you have  
a a lot of energy in a small space, the universe 
will start to actually create particles that have  
the same energy in their mass. So a lot of energy 
can actually become mass. And and this is how our  
particle accelerators work. This is why you can 
discover new particles because if you just have  
a very energetic collision, like you take two 
gold nuclei and you slam them together, there's  
so much energy produced in that collision that it 
starts to pop off particles just from the amount  
of energy. And as long as you have enough energy, 
you can make any particle the universe has. The  
particles come off in all different flavors as 
long as they have the same amount of energy that  
that collision is putting out. So neutron stars 
are doing something kind of like that. They're  
actually becoming sort of natural particle 
accelerators in a way just because of their  
mass. There is so much gravitational contraction 
that the magnetic field, the electric field and  
magnetic field of that star is actually compressed 
around this tiny little object. Now, so neutron  
stars have magnetic fields that are trillions of 
times more strong than a typical magnet you might  
have in your home, like a refrigerator magnet. 
It would actually pull regular matter apart,  
just the magnetic field. But there's so much 
energy in those magnetic fields. So so think about  
E= MC². There's so much magnetic energy right 
around a neutron star that the vacuum of space  
itself starts to make these virtual particles. And 
I was at a lecture one time and this just blew my  
mind. You know this is what happens when you work 
at NASA and you know you go into a lecture your  
colleagues are having you just you know any any 
day of the week. And they were saying that right  
around a neutron star the density of space itself 
the vacuum of space right a place where it's a  
vacuum. there aren't any particles otherwise 
has about three times the density of pure iron  
just from that amount of virtual particles being 
produced by the energy of that magnetic field.  
So what's it like to fly around something where 
space itself has the density of three times of  
iron? What's that like? What does that look like? 
I would love to see what a neutron star looks like  
from a safe distance. And I'm not exactly sure 
what that is. When you're dealing with so much  
energy that even empty space becomes much more 
dense than iron. And once again, these are real.  
They're up in the night sky tonight. I mean, you 
can't see them because they're they're dim and  
they're small and they're far away. So, it's not 
something we actually see in the night sky. But  
all around us, we're getting the radiation, the 
high energy radiation from these things that are  
are real monsters. Our sun has this wind of high 
energy particles. This is something that was only  
relatively recently discovered. I mean, when 
you think about the fact that the very first  
satellites we put into space, you know, starting 
in, you know, the very late 1950s, you know,  
and 1960s, they they realized that there was this 
source of of of radiation up there. There was,  
you know, a lot of particles around up in space. 
I actually had the honor of being next to this  
man named Eugene Parker. We have a a a wonderful 
mission named after him called the Parker Solar  
Probe. This mission is actually orbiting around 
the sun right now, closer than any human-made  
thing has ever orbited the sun before. It's really 
really exciting. He was I I believe 94 years old  
at the time of the launch. Usually we we only name 
spacecraft after people postumously after they've  
died. He was the one that basically predicted the 
solar wind and was the the one that figured out  
how it worked. And of course, we're still figuring 
out a lot of the details, but they just couldn't  
think of anybody better to name it after than 
him. And so that was lovely. The source of these  
these these high energy particles and exactly how 
they get accelerated away from the sun is is what  
we're studying right now. We know that this wind 
of particles, when I say high energy particles,  
I'm talking electrons and protons and, you know, 
sometimes, you know, as large as like the nucleus  
of a helium atom, something like that. and they 
uh they get blasted through our solar system at  
a million miles an hour in some cases. And so, 
you know, we have this very high energy wind.  
It changes planets. You know, it's responsible for 
Mars losing its atmosphere over time and becoming  
this kind of cold dead desert. It's responsible 
for for Venus becoming sort of this this hellish  
thing that we know it. It actually blasted 
away all of the lighter molecules like water.  
It left Venus with an atmosphere of carbon 
dioxide and sulfuric acid. And even Pluto,  
you know, all the way out at the edge of our 
planetary system, Pluto is is still losing tons  
of atmosphere a day, blasted away by this wind of 
high energy particles. The only reason the Earth  
is not really affected by it much is because 
we have a very strong magnetic field. And so,  
you know, our molten metal core, all that molten 
metal moving around inside the Earth generates  
kind of a magnetic bottle around the Earth. And 
that protects us from this solar wind. But someday  
the sun will actually, you know, pretty much 
blast away our atmosphere anyway. So, you know,  
planets change and and one of the important 
things about knowing about this wind is we have  
to understand our environment in space. The solar 
wind normally is at levels that humans can take  
quite quite easily. You I know that some people 
that are into conspiracy theories say, you know,  
how could we have gone to the moon because there's 
so much radiation in space. Well, the answer is we  
we kind of got lucky with Apollo because a normal 
day, the solar wind is a a radiation level humans  
can handle quite easily, you know, up in space 
or, you know, on the moon. Problem is that if you  
have a solar storm, a very very violent event that 
unleashes lots of this solar wind, a lot of times  
we call these coronal mass ejections. The corona 
is the outer layer of the sun's atmosphere and and  
coronal mass ejection. All this stuff comes out 
at once. It's true that if if a big one of those  
happens in the direction where astronauts are 
unprotected from the Earth's magnetic field, they  
could die. I mean, it could actually give them 
a fatal dose of of radiation. That is something  
that we need to consider. And it turns out that we 
got kind of lucky that, you know, in between some  
of the Apollo missions when no astronauts were 
up on the moon, luckily we actually had events,  
solar events that would have endangered the 
astronauts. That's why it's hard to go to the  
moon and also to Mars is to protect people from 
that that radiation. It's not that hard to protect  
you from it. I mean, a good amount of water 
could do it. Like if you had a water tank in your  
spacecraft and you could shelter behind that. It's 
just that you'd have to bring up a decent amount  
of water and that's a lot of mass. Or in the case 
of the moon, I think if if you could dig down just  
about 10 ft below the lunar surface, that amount 
of rock above you would shelter you. But then we  
need to bring, you know, construction equipment to 
the moon that can dig a tunnel, right? So I mean I  
mean there's all kinds of things we're considering 
as to how you would handle that. So what happens  
with shock waves is that you have say two binary 
stars close to each other and they both have a  
wind of particles. You in this case we don't say 
a solar wind, we say a stellar wind because we're  
talking about stars. But it's really the same 
thing. The main difference is that the stars  
that I was studying are very massive stars. Stars 
that have, you know, anywhere from, you know,  
let's say 20 to 50 times the mass of the sun. 
And they actually have really strong winds. much  
stronger even than the sun does. So when you have 
these two stars close to each other, these winds  
come off and they collide. And when that happens, 
I mean I mean literally the the the electric and  
magnetic fields, you know, sort of entangle with 
each other. The particles collide together and  
that creates a very very hot area that we call a 
shock wave. As all of this stuff comes together,  
basically slows itself down as it collides, you 
get all of this heat and radiation emitted along  
that that that shock front. Those are wonderful 
shock waves that are created by colliding winds.  
Yeah. So, one of the big challenges right now, 
especially as we consider putting astronauts back  
on the moon, is there a way to predict when one 
of these violent events is coming? The answer is  
uh yes, in several ways. So in the in the very 
simplest way, we actually have spacecraft as I  
mentioned there's a spacecraft orbiting the sun 
right now. There's actually two, the Parker Solar  
Probe and the Solar Orbiter from the Europeans. 
And we also have other spacecraft between the  
Earth and the Sun. As one of these, you know, big 
belches of material, charged high energy particles  
comes out of the sun, it will hit different 
satellites that will measure how fast it's going,  
how much energy is being delivered. And usually 
in the case of of say the moon, uh the the earth  
has about a day or maybe two days notice. So you 
could say to the astronauts, hey, something's  
coming. You know, everybody go shelter. You know, 
as long as you had a good shelter there. But then  
there's the question of can you predict it before 
it actually happens. And this of course is one of  
the the huge goals all over the world of people 
called helopysicists. Helio for sun and then  
physicists. So people who are are physicists that 
specifically study the sun. the the sun is this  
incredible magnetic marvel. A magnetic field is 
generated by moving charges, right? So you think  
about like the the charges in moving metal that 
generates a magnetic field in an engine. In the  
case of the sun, the sun is made almost entirely 
of hydrogen, but it is so hot on the surface that  
that gas has become ionized. that what that means 
is there's so much energy that electrons that  
normally orbit around a nucleus, the electron gets 
so much energy it just takes off and that leaves  
two particles that are charged, an electron and 
a proton. Anything that has an electric charge,  
a magnetic field can bend. And so when you see 
these wonderful like loops on the sun and and and  
you know all of these beautiful shapes, that's the 
very hot electrically charged gas just following  
the magnetic field of the sun. The name for it, 
and it's kind of a confusing name, is plasma. You  
know, you can actually see the shape of the sun's 
magnetic field, but it's chaotic. It's incredibly  
complicated. So, you have these wonderful loops 
of magnetic energy, you know, all this stuff  
following it. So, how do you predict, you know, 
when one of those loops is going to break open and  
and actually like spew stuff out and create one of 
these big ejections? We're getting better at it,  
but it's still something that we don't understand. 
I mean mean something that simple of you know our  
own star when is there going to be a really big 
storm we can't predict it down to the hour we can  
say there's a very active region here that looks 
like it might produce something but there's no  
way to guarantee that actually it kind of reminds 
me of the year uh 2012 because I was having sort  
of a difficult year that year because uh people 
had this idea of the Mayan apocalypse. It was  
2012 apparently that was the end of some 
calendar cycle in the the Mayan calendar.  
The the idea was that something catastrophic was 
going to happen. And I would get calls, seriously,  
people would call us at NASA and say, you 
know, I don't want my pets to suffer. You know,  
should I euthanize? I I actually got a call 
somebody wondering if they should euthanize their  
pets. Other people would say things like, is the 
world going to end next month? And and I' I'd say,  
you know, look, okay, if I knew the world was 
going to end next month, do you think I'd be here  
in my office answering phone calls? I don't think 
so. And we kept telling people that there was  
really no reason to worry about anything. There 
was nothing unusual astronomically happening. The  
sun was in a naturally active period that year. 
Every 11 years or so, the sun becomes very active  
and then it kind of gets quieter again. One of 
the reasons I know this is cuz I I love to see the  
northern lights, the auroras, you know, those are 
caused when you get these charged particles in our  
atmosphere and uh they create these beautiful 
glows around the poles. You know, for us,  
that's really the only thing we really notice 
for the most part. What happened actually is  
that there was a colossal coronal mass ejection, 
one that would have actually been dangerous to our  
power grids here on Earth. It wouldn't have caused 
any damage to like people or animals or plants,  
but it would have actually dumped electric 
current into our magnetic field and it it  
probably would have taken down, you know, a lot of 
power grids. It would have caused a lot of damage.  
The thing though is it went off on the other side 
of the sun from the earth and we had satellites  
out there in that other direction out in the solar 
system and and and they got knocked silly by this  
big burst of charged particles from the sun. And 
so we looked at that and we were able to observe  
it and see what had happened and track it and all 
of that. We all kind of went the the sun spins.  
It actually doesn't all spin at the same rate. 
The equator spins faster than the poles. It's  
not a solid thing. It kind of twists itself up. 
the sun, you know, on average spins about once  
every 29 days. And so we don't really know. There 
could be an active region that's about to blast,  
but then it could spin out of our view and and 
so we're safe from it. Or something could come,  
you know, from the other side of the sun that 
we didn't see. There's all sorts of wonderful  
complexities when it comes to observing this this 
phenomena we call space weather. The winds and the  
storms, but in this case, winds of particles and 
magnetic storms, storms of magnetic chaos on the  
sun. It's a wonderful thing to think about that 
our our lovely gentle star up there is is actually  
very dramatic and and very volatile. Sitting here 
at the bottom of the Earth's atmosphere, we're not  
really aware that we're in a larger environment 
in space. And the dominant thing is the sun. You  
know, the sun obviously is the biggest thing in 
our solar system, the most important thing. The  
sun not only puts out a lot of light and heat, but 
it also puts out a wind of high energy particles,  
high energy protons and electrons, charged 
particles. We actually are bathed in this all the  
time. It interacts with our atmosphere. It creates 
the northern and southern lights. In some cases,  
it can even be a a risk, especially to our 
technology. We're quite well protected from  
these high energy particles by our atmosphere and 
also by the Earth's magnetic field. The Earth has  
a very strong magnetic field that surrounds our 
planet and protects us from the worst of this  
stuff. Even the astronauts up in the space 
station, they're actually close enough to  
the Earth that they're largely protected by this 
magnetic field. When you go out to the moon and  
farther away, that's when you're not protected by 
the Earth's magnetic field and you find yourself  
just basically exposed to this wind of high energy 
particles. A lot of people don't realize how  
significant that is and how much uh not only NASA, 
but Noah and other organizations all over the the  
planet are monitoring this. There is a fleet of 
satellites right now and I don't know exactly  
the number because it usually changes but we have 
some satellites that are orbiting the sun itself.  
We have some that are actually placed between the 
earth and the sun. There is a place that actually  
the the sun's gravity and the earth's gravity 
balances out. If you're between the earth and the  
sun, you're actually attracted equally to either 
one gravitationally and you stick a satellite  
right there and it doesn't take a lot of energy 
to actually keep it in that spot. So we have this  
kind of early warning system to see if there's 
something dangerous coming from the sun. And then  
we have all kinds of observatories both here on 
the earth on in on the ground and also space-based  
observatories that orbit the earth that just look 
at the sun continuously. We even have satellites  
around the solar systems look at different angles 
of the sun. So we we've got the sun covered. Now  
why is it so important? Well, the solar wind 
normally doesn't really have much danger to us,  
you know, or the environment in space. But when 
you're dealing with space weather, sometimes  
there's a really big line of thunderstorms 
coming through. Right? So in the case of the sun,  
the sun sometimes has very very violent storms. 
And these are storms caused by the the chaotic  
twisting magnetic field of the sun. Some of the 
hot gas on the surface of the sun actually gets  
accelerated so quickly by these magnetic fields 
that it just breaks off and takes off into space.  
And in one moment you could have trillions of 
tons of fast highmoving charged material coming  
out towards the earth. Now that's not actually 
very dangerous to us biologically. But what that  
can do is carry a huge amount of electrical and 
magnetic energy. All of a sudden all these charged  
particles hit the magnetic field of the earth and 
they can actually dump electric current right into  
our magnetic field. There was a famous event 
in the mid 1800s called the Carrington event.  
With the Carrington event, we really were just 
starting to have things like telegraph lines. Now,  
in order to get a telegraph to work, there has to 
be electric current on the wires. And normally,  
you would hook up your telegraph to a power 
generator, and that would create electric current,  
and you could send your signals. So, when this 
Carrington event occurred, there was so much  
electric current dumped into the Earth's field 
that you could actually start sending signals  
with no connection to power. And then eventually 
as the storm went on, some of the telegraph wires  
actually caught on fire just from a storm of 
magnetic and electrical energy. These particles  
coming from the sun. So these days, of course, 
you know, we know that this could happen again. Uh  
events like this are rare, but they they certainly 
will happen from time to time. So there are all  
kinds of organizations, you know, the uh like like 
FEMA, you all these disaster relief organizations  
that work with NASA and Noah to actually figure 
out what happens if we think that a a dangerous  
solar storm is imminent. Um in the case of 
all of our satellites up above the atmosphere,  
they're very at risk. So we can basically shut 
them down, put them to sleep for a little while.  
Of course, that that that energy burst will 
hit them and it may damage their detectors,  
but at least most of the electronics are shut down 
at the time and we can recover them hopefully. And  
then there may even be uh you know plans that 
are necessary to to shut down parts of power  
grids because I think the biggest danger of these 
things to us is that when they actually hit the  
earth's field you could have so much again energy 
in that magnetic field of the earth that it could  
you know fry our power grids. I mean think about 
how bad it would be if all the power on earth just  
went out because of one of these solar storms. I 
mean that that could conceivably cause billions  
or maybe even trillions of dollars of damage. So 
there are people rehearsing these scenarios. There  
are people uh you know trying to figure out how 
we would shut things down, how we would protect  
ourselves and then we have our fleet of satellites 
trying to observe the sun all the time and we  
would have probably about a day's notice as one of 
these big storms made its way through the sun. The  
sun we think of as putting off lots of light and 
you know light travels at the speed of light which  
takes about 8 minutes to get from the sun to us. 
But this isn't light. These are charged particles,  
protons and electrons. And although they may be 
moving millions of miles an hour, it still will  
take them about, you know, a day or more to get to 
the Earth. So, we will have some warning. But yes,  
I mean, all around you there are people monitoring 
space weather and getting ready for a big storm.  
You know, the thing that's really fascinating 
to me about asteroids is that they are kind  
of a preservation of the way the solar system 
was billions of years ago. This is really true.  
The solar system was once this kind of cloud of 
gas and dust and then under the forces of gravity,  
things started to clump together into smaller 
bits and then larger bits that eventually  
became planets. And planets like the Earth 
changed so much, right? I mean, the interior  
of our planet is molten. There's stuff that's 
melting down there. On the surface, you've got  
erosion and rain and wind. So, nothing is 
really the same as it was billions of years ago.  
But there were these little small building blocks 
that got left behind that actually never got  
made into larger things and they're pretty much 
unchanged for billions of years. So scientifically  
the reason these are such treasures is that 
they are kind of a a time capsule of what the  
chemistry the physical conditions everything was 
like as the solar system formed. The question of  
mining them. So the thing that happened with the 
earth is that the earth has this this hot molten  
core and most of anything that's heavy sinks to 
the bottom. Right? So when you have a liquid,  
heavier stuff sinks to the bottom. So the core of 
our planet is made of iron, you know, and nickel,  
but also metals like gold and silver and platinum, 
anything that was heavy when the Earth was molten  
would have mainly sunk to the core. So that 
means that if that didn't happen to an asteroid,  
an asteroid is still kind of all mixed up. 
The heavier stuff hasn't actually sunk out  
of it. Given a volume, there is in fact more rare 
elements, more gold, more platinum, more titanium,  
whatever. But asteroids are also fairly small and 
of course they're in space, so they're hard to get  
to. To me, it becomes kind of a a cost question. 
Yes, asteroid material by and large has more rare  
valuable elements than parts of our Earth's crust. 
It also has a lot more iron. You can get very  
expensive iron. I don't know when it will actually 
become economically feasible to go all the way to  
an asteroid, mine it, bring stuff back or however 
you want to do that to get the tiny little bit of  
gold that you'll get out of it. My guess is not 
soon. I don't think we will actually be mining  
asteroids in any real commercial way very soon at 
all. It's a fascinating question whether you could  
use a compass in space. So, let's talk first 
about compasses and then maybe talk a bit more  
about the idea of how we locate ourselves in space 
in general. A compass is something that responds  
to a magnetic field. So, the reason a compass 
always points north is that it's responding to  
the magnetic field of the Earth. Our planet has 
this wonderful core of molten metal. That metal  
moves around inside the Earth and it generates a 
magnetic field that has two poles, a north pole  
and a south pole. When you make a compass, you 
make it out of something metal that can respond to  
that magnetic field and it points to the magnetic 
pole of the Earth, which is very close to our  
north pole. A magnetic field directs compasses. 
Obviously, if you go away from the Earth,  
far away from our planet, it's no longer going to 
be able to feel our magnetic field. So, a compass  
will not point to the north pole of the Earth if, 
say, you're out by Saturn. Saturn and Jupiter are  
separate planets and they have magnetic fields 
of their own. So certainly if you were actually  
close to Jupiter, Jupiter has a magnetic field 
much stronger than the Earth's magnetic field.  
Your compass would definitely point to the 
north pole of Jupiter if you were actually  
around Jupiter. Now, but what if you get farther 
out? What if you actually go farther from there?  
Is there any magnetic field out in space itself? 
Well, actually, it turns out that there are that  
our galaxy does have a magnetic field as a whole, 
too. This magnetic field might be hard to detect.  
You might need a very, very sensitive compass, 
but say you had it. you would actually see that  
our galaxy does have sort of a magnetic north and 
south pole and that magnetic field permeates our  
whole galaxy. With compasses, you could actually 
at least find out where the north and south pole  
of another planet is, the north and south pole of 
a star. A star has a magnetic field, too. Even the  
north and south pole of a galaxy that's responding 
to a local magnetic field. But then it kind of  
begs the question, how do you find your direction 
in space that doesn't involve a magnetic field  
out between the galaxies where really there's no 
detectable magnetic field at all? Everything is  
moving. There's nothing to say this point is still 
and this is the reference point we're going to use  
and everything moves according to that point. 
We're moving around the sun at uh about 66,000  
miles an hour. Right now the sun is moving around 
the galaxy around the core of the galaxy at about  
half a million miles an hour. We are actually 
falling gravitationally into the center of a  
cluster of galaxies at about a million and a half 
miles an hour. That's just when we say relative  
to what? Relative to the sun. Relative to this 
group of galaxies. There is no absolute standard  
of reference in the universe. There is one thing 
that is perhaps the best way of navigating your  
way around the universe and that's something 
called the microwave background radiation. That's  
the farthest radiation we can possibly see. That's 
radiation that's coming everywhere in the universe  
from a time about 400,000 years after the Big 
Bangs. And it fills all of space with this gentle  
microwave radiation. And it's pretty much the 
same in every direction. In fact, if you had an  
old style television that used to have an antenna 
decades ago, a lot of the static that you would  
see on the screen was actually microwaves from 
this background radiation. And one of the things  
we can measure is our motion relative to this bath 
of radiation, the microwave background. So if you  
were trying to navigate with a compass in space, 
just remember that compass is going to respond to  
the strongest and closest magnetic field. It will 
point north, north to the pole of a planet, north  
to the pole of a star, even to the north and south 
magnetic poles of our galaxy. But what you're  
reading is a magnetic field. That's what a compass 
does. And that's pretty much all it can tell you.  
Well, this is the thing about the power of 
astronomy that kind of really does blow my mind  
is how much we actually do know. There's all kinds 
of things that we don't know and and astronomers,  
scientists in general tend to really focus on 
what we don't know because that's what we're  
working on. That's that's our jobs. That's that's 
how we get, you know, the grant money to sustain  
ourselves is trying to answer the questions that 
we don't know yet. But the things that we do know  
in some ways, just how recently we know them 
really kind of blow my mind. You think about  
what are stars made of, right? I mean, you've 
probably heard that stars are mainly made of  
hydrogen and helium. You know, they're these big 
sort of balls of gas, you know, very, very hot,  
dense burning balls of gas. But how long ago did 
we know that? It was actually really not until,  
you know, times like the 20s or 30s that a young 
woman named Cecilia Payne, uh, working at Harvard  
wrote a PhD dissertation pretty much proving they 
had to be made out of hydrogen. It was a graduate  
student, a woman graduate student. At the time, 
the idea was that the sun was probably something  
very much like the earth. It was like a big rock. 
And if you have a rock that big, and this is true,  
there would be so much gravity pushing it 
together that the temperature of the rock would  
be very hot. So, you know, the temperature of the 
surface of the sun is round about 10,000°. And if  
you had a rock that big with that much gravity 
pushing it together, it would be that hot. But  
it would only be that hot for probably a couple 
million years. And the neat thing was, you know,  
around about the late 1800s, it was Charles Darwin 
who had been looking at things like uh evolution,  
the strata of rock like the Grand Canyon, and 
he sort of had this this feeling that millions  
of years certainly was a long amount of time, 
but he didn't think it was long enough to for  
the changes that he saw in the earth itself. 
The prevailing idea, and this was a problem,  
is that the sun was basically a big earth. Gravity 
just just the contraction of gravity was making  
it hot. it would take millions of years to cool 
off. It turns out that wasn't it at all. It was  
actually made of hydrogen, the lightest substance 
in the universe. But now you have so much gravity  
crushing together the hydrogen making the interior 
very hot, millions of degrees hot, hot enough  
actually to start a nuclear fusion reaction and 
that can last billions of years. Certainly one  
of the biggest misconceptions is that people think 
that scientists feel that the big bang came out of  
nothing, right? I mean, how did all of this energy 
and all of this matter that made up the universe,  
you're saying it just came out of nothing? No. I 
I I don't think any scientist actually believes  
that. The problem is when you think about 
the condition the universe was in at that  
point where I mean take our observable universe, 
right? I mean, you can look from one side of the  
universe to the other back, you know, 13.5 billion 
lightyears or more. All of the stuff that we see  
was actually compressed into a space smaller 
than an atom, a volume smaller than an atom.  
We don't have the physics that describes how that 
would work. That is so much mass, so much energy  
in so little volume. I mean, at this point there 
wasn't even mass, just basically pure energy that  
right now our physics doesn't go there. As we get 
a better idea about how gravity works under very  
extreme circumstances, you huge energy densities, 
we may have some idea what set off the big bang  
and possibly what came before the big bang. And 
even that word is a little bit difficult when you  
start talking about the big bang because the big 
bang we believe was the creation not just of space  
but of time. Whatever state the universe was in 
before the big bang probably didn't have time as  
we perceive it either. Space and time appear to 
be some kind of a consequence that of the later  
expansion. So how do you describe something that 
doesn't have space and time that has huge amounts  
of energy and tiny little volumes? We don't have 
the physics. It's not that we will never know this  
but right now we don't have any way to describe 
it. Now another major misconception about the big  
bang is that the universe before the big bang was 
small. Okay. Now didn't I just say that everything  
we see in the universe was probably contained, 
you know, less than the volume of an atom. And  
didn't I just say that? Well, the thing is I know 
every scientist understands that we cannot see the  
entire universe right now. And that's because 
there's such a thing that we quantify as the  
observable universe. The universe has existed, we 
think since the big bang about say 13.8 billion  
years. So as you look farther and farther out 
into space, you necessarily have to look back  
in time. If something is a million lighty years 
away from you, like the Andromeda galaxy is about  
two million lighty years away. The light that 
you see through binoculars tonight as you look  
up at the Andromeda galaxy left two million years 
ago. You're seeing the Andromeda galaxy as it was.  
So today we actually have telescopes that are so 
powerful they can see back to a time about 400,000  
years after the Big Bang. That's amazing. We can 
see so far away in space that the light has taken  
that long to get to us. You know, nearly 13.8 
billion years. And when we look back to that time,  
the universe looks very different. For one thing, 
it's very hot. It's actually about as hot as the  
surface of the sun. And it's so dense and hot 
that we actually can't see any farther. Literally,  
in any direction you look around the sky, anywhere 
you look, if you look to that distance, you see  
the universe as it was at that time, 400,000 years 
after the Big Bang, and everything becomes just  
hot hydrogen gas. So, I know this is kind of a 
strange way to uh to put it because we're talking  
about before the Big Bang, there may not have been 
space and time the way we think they are today.  
But whatever it was before the Big Bang, whatever 
was there, there was a tiny little part of it,  
a tiny little volume that expanded to become the 
universe we see today. But that little bit wasn't  
the whole universe. We don't know yet how big the 
original universe was, all of it, before the big  
bang happened, before something changed to make 
it expand and completely change its form. So the  
universe before the big bang didn't have to be 
necessarily tiny. It actually could be infinitely  
large. Because of that, we have no idea how big 
the universe is, what shape it has. All we can  
see is a tiny little bit of it. Think about my arm 
being the universe before the Big Bang. you know,  
in some kind of state that we can't even 
describe through modern physics. The entire  
observable universe that we can see now used to be 
a tiny volume of it, maybe an atom in my arm. One  
atom expanded and became the entire observable 
universe that we see. But that's not the whole  
universe. There are trillions of atoms in my arm. 
Each one of those could have expand to actually  
be its own entirely observable universe. So, we 
can't tell yet how big the universe was before  
the Big Bang or even what shape the universe 
is because all we're seeing is a tiny little  
bit of it that expanded to become everything that 
we see. But that's not the whole universe. That's  
our observable universe. There's far more out 
there than what we can see. One of the most  
common questions that I'm getting from the public 
these days is, is our universe a simulation? I I  
think that one of the things people are thinking 
about is they've heard the term the holographic  
universe and this is indeed a very powerful and 
increasingly popular idea in modern physics but  
it's a little bit unfortunately named and and let 
me sort of take you through this. This all started  
a couple decades ago when people like Stephven 
Hawking and others were trying to figure out how  
a black hole really works. We know black holes 
exist. We actually observe them from a distance  
very routinely. But the physics of how they work 
never quite worked. They appeared to violate some  
pretty important laws of physics. The universe 
doesn't like to lose information. A particle has  
a charge. It has a spin. There are all kinds of of 
things you can say about an elementary particle.  
But when it falls into a black hole, the only 
thing that seems to exist anymore is mass, the  
gravity that that particle had. What happened to 
the information about its charge? Can you ever get  
that back? As people began to do the mathematics 
a bit, they noticed something very intriguing  
that everything seemed to work much better if you 
assumed the black hole was twodimensional. Now,  
black holes are actually three-dimensional 
objects. You know, a lot of times they're  
portrayed kind of as things going down a drain, 
but basically you have a sphere, which is the  
point of no return. Gravity is so intense around 
a black hole that if you get anywhere this close,  
you never come back out. That's the event horizon 
of a black hole. So instead of assuming that it is  
a a sphere around the black hole, it all started 
to act like it was a two-dimensional surface,  
something that was three-dimensional became much 
more understandable if it was two-dimensional.  
And as scientists do, they thought, well, okay, 
if this works for a black hole, is it telling  
us something about the rest of the universe? 
And this may be one of the most important new  
revolutions in modern physics that the laws of 
physics might work a lot better, might actually  
work out together if you assume that our reality 
is really two-dimensional. You look around, there  
seems to be more than two dimensions in space and 
there's time. How would that work? The example  
of a hologram came up. You know, I still remember 
being at a hologram museum back in the 1980s. Uh,  
and the holograms were really new and really 
exciting. The idea that a hologram is made out  
of just a two-dimensional block of film or a block 
of glass, but it seems to be three-dimensional  
when you look into it. And even more than that, 
I remember this one hologram that was put on a  
pedestal and as you walked around the hologram, 
somebody appeared to move inside and wave at  
you. If you were looking at the hologram, there 
appeared to be motion and even time all embedded  
in just this two-dimensional surface. That's what 
they mean when they say holographic principle. It  
doesn't imply that anybody made a hologram or 
that we are part of a projection that somebody  
some evil genius is projecting reality on us. 
What the holographic principle really is is  
the universe may store energy in a way and 
information in a way similar to a hologram.  
If that's true and we really are embedded in 
this two-dimensional universe that has some  
pretty amazing repercussions. It probably means 
that every point in time exists at once. That,  
you know, our idea that things are changing and 
that I'm I'm moving right now and time is flowing  
in one direction. That's probably the same as 
somebody just walking by a hologram and having the  
perception that the image is moving. It's probably 
not real. The amazing idea is that the extension  
of space itself and time actually flowing may not 
be real intrinsic parts of the universe. They may  
be some way that we perceive it with the human 
brain, but in fact there's an underlying reality  
where that is not true. We say that these are 
emergent properties. It's not the real story.  
A hologram doesn't really move. A hologram is not 
really three-dimensional, but it seems so through  
our perception. That's an amazing idea that the 
entire universe exists all at once as some kind  
of surface of information. That's the holographic 
principle. It's working quite well right now. I  
can't tell you whether it's true or not, whether 
there there really is some real two-dimensional  
thing that we think of as the universe. So, stay 
tuned. At the time that Darren was doing this, I  
think there was sort of this argument between like 
biblical people that said the earth was a couple  
thousand years old and then the scientists said, 
"Oh, no, no, it must be millions of years old."  
What one of the things about being an astronomer 
is you throw around very very large numbers all  
the time. I mean, some of them are just kind 
of, you know, stupidly large. But even things  
like how many is a million, right? How many is 
a billion? The the human brain, I don't perceive  
that really any better than anybody else. The 
human brain just doesn't go there. Instead, you  
kind of find yourself getting used to swimming in 
an environment where your your mind can't really  
grasp all the way around a concept. It just can't. 
You I can't tell you how far away a lightyear is.  
I mean, one lightyear, you know, the distance 
light travels in one year at 186,000 miles per  
second. That's a close to about 6 trillion miles. 
I I don't have the ability to actually visualize  
that or feel it. And yet to me a lightyear seems 
very familiar and actually actually quite close.  
So maybe that's one of the reasons astronomers 
are almost kind of predisposed to being able to  
let go of sort of your common sense when people 
say things like the inside of a neutron star,  
you know, is is is so dense that a single 
teaspoonful, you know, of that material would have  
as much mass as Mount Everest. It's like, okay, 
the laws of physics pretty much require that. or  
when when people say what was the temperature 
of the universe just you know 3 seconds after  
the big bang that our physics really does work to 
to predict that. So I think that when you start  
swimming just in these big numbers and you begin 
to kind of let go of the idea that the human mind  
is the beall and endall. You know we have these 
tools to start attacking larger problems to start  
asking bigger questions. All of a sudden it comes 
very natural to say things like oh yeah you know  
gravity is actually a bending of space and time. 
The amazing thing about that is that that started  
out to be completely theoretical. You know, people 
thought that Einstein's theories were very useful.  
I mean, they made extremely accurate predictions 
about how the planets move, about how the universe  
works. But was there any really reality to the 
fact that space and time could bend? I mean,  
literally the space in front of me, the 
space and time around me can change and bend,  
even have a direction to it. It turns out that 
you know our theories for the most part do lead  
us to something really physically true. And you 
know right now people ask me questions like are  
there multiple universes? What's the shape of the 
universe? You know the larger universe? All of  
these things are wonderful questions and we don't 
know the answer to them yet. But I have a feeling  
that it's not just wasting time. You I think some 
of these stranger theories will bear themselves  
out over time. We just need to wait. Right now, 
I think it's a little bit too soon to follow them  
all the way into the rabbit hole. Let's say that 
there were many, many multiple realities. Well,  
how would physics work? How would this work? It's 
still too much conjecture for me to invest a huge  
amount in it. You know, I still remember, you 
know, what's only 2,000 years ago, unless that you  
had people like Aristotle who were brilliant and 
they came up with this idea that all the planets  
had to follow perfect spherical orbits around the 
Earth in the middle and they were on these crystal  
spheres that somehow moved and you know, people 
all the way up into the Renaissance were trying  
to figure out how those crystal spheres could 
have worked and how they were supported. Well,  
it turns out there weren't any crystal spheres. 
There's always a bit of me as an observational  
scientist that says, you know, take everything 
with a grain of salt for now. Oh, I mean, airsoft  
had this elegant, wonderful system. I mean, people 
loved it until the Renaissance, right? It's just  
that our observations didn't bear up with it. And 
it was so beautiful, people hated to let it go,  
but unfortunately, that's not how the solar 
system works. Definitely pursue these questions,  
but I'm not sure I'm ready to dive all the way 
into any of those rabbit holes quite yet. I love  
to think about them, but I think it's probably 
a little too soon to follow them ultimately  
to where they might go. So, people today have 
all these wonderful questions that that modern  
physics is leading us to. Questions like, are 
the way we perceive space and time real? That's  
even 100 years old. Albert Einstein said that 
space and time could be bent. Time itself could  
stop. Then there are things like the holographic 
principle. Is it possible that our whole universe  
is some sort of embedded information 
structure on a two-dimensional surface?  
These are amazing ideas and they may turn out to 
actually have some physical truth to them. We're  
not really sure yet. But sometimes people say, 
"Well, are you scientists just absolutely crazy?  
How is it that you so blightly get rid of the idea 
that time has a direction or that space is real?"  
One of the things you have to very deeply 
accept to be a scientist is that your senses,  
the human brain is just not the best instrument 
to perceive the entirety of the universe. I mean,  
let's take a simple example. There are many, many 
colors of light, energies of light that our eyes  
are not sensitive to. There are things like gamma 
rays and x-rays, ultraviolet light, radio waves.  
Those are all just different colors that our 
eyes don't see. The universe has colors that just  
weren't built for the human body to perceive. And 
when it comes to a mind, a brain. Think about some  
of the incredible creatures all around us. I mean, 
you know, think about a grasshopper, a marvel  
of evolution. It has a brain. It has a central 
nervous system. But could you teach a grasshopper  
quantum mechanics or general relativity? You know, 
could it compose a symphony or or write a novel?  
It just can't. I mean, a grasshopper's brain 
just doesn't have the complexity to do that.  
A grasshopper doesn't perceive those things. What 
about a bacterium? A bacterium doesn't even have  
a brain, but of course, the the majority of life 
on Earth by mass is still bacteria. You have to  
have this humility and remind yourself that it's 
possible that the human brain is just as far away  
from perceiving the way the universe really is as 
a grasshopper is to perceiving quantum mechanics.  
We are not some beall and endall of perception. 
The universe was not designed, not built to be  
comprehensible to the human mind. We only see a 
little bit of it through the filter of what our  
minds can ingest and how they do it. And so we 
think that there really is such a thing as space  
and time. You know, we we actually think that 
there is a past, present, and a future when in  
fact there may not be. And this goes all the way 
back to Galileo. You know when Galileo was around  
the idea that the earth had to be the center. 
God made it. So God must have put the earth  
in the center. But then it became proven that the 
earth went around a larger object, the sun. And I  
think almost more beautifully, one of my favorite 
observations of Galileo is that when he invented  
his little telescope, he he looked at the sky and 
he realized that there were stars in the sky you  
couldn't see with just the unaded human eye. There 
were stars up there that we were unable to see  
unless you looked through a telescope, a piece 
of technology. And the question was, why would  
the universe do that if the universe was designed 
for us to see and us to perceive? Why would there  
be things too far away and too dim for us to 
see? Why are parts of the universe so strange  
and so incomprehensible and make so little common 
sense? Honestly, why should it be any other way?
Want to support the channel? Join the Big Think  
Members community where you get 
access to videos early, ad-free.