Accountants have become a hot topic recently
Issues of corruption and accounting fraud by politicians have once again attracted attention
In mid-April this year, the Procuratorate
It was discovered that Ke Jing’s total political donation income and expenditure were inconsistent with approximately NT$20 million.
It is suspected that senior executives such as Ke Wenzhe, Huang Shanshan, and Li Wenzong had known about it for a long time
But the People's Party failed to maintain its balance
Now it has turned into a false accounting case
The book we are going to face today is "The Great Audit"
Let’s introduce the big history of accounting
The author of this book, Jacob Saul, is a professor of history and accounting at the University of Southern California
The author believes that the core elements of the entire Western economic history
Not capital, banks, labor
But accounting
The origin of capitalism, the French Revolution, and the 2008 financial tsunami
It’s all related to accounting
The history of the rise and fall of a country is, in the final analysis, a history of accounting
As early as ancient Greece
Accounting is inseparable from accountability
Accountants and bankers in ancient Greece were served by slaves
Responsible for supervising the national treasury
Why use slaves as slaves?
Because slaves can be forced to confess and tortured to hold them accountable.
But falsifying accounts seemed to be tacitly allowed in ancient Greece
The historian Polybius said:
"No matter how strict the accounting practices are, smart people can still find ways to falsify the accounts."
By the time of ancient Rome
Cicero had accused the deputy consul Mark Antony of falsifying accounts.
Steal money from Julius Caesar
But not only was Mark Antony not arrested and imprisoned,
In his later years, he became one of the Big Three
Revenge against Cicero
Cut off his head and show it to the public
It can be seen that
No politician will easily let go of those who dare to expose his false accounting
Augustus in ancient Rome was both an emperor and an accountant
He once revealed his wealth accounts
170 million allocated from private coffers to the victorious Roman soldiers
To promote political achievements
Establish an open and transparent image
after Augustus
Opening the imperial accounts became a tradition in ancient Rome
Our current politicians are afraid to disclose how much property they have in their names
But in ancient Rome, you had to disclose your expenses
Only in order to show yourself to be an open and transparent emperor
Only corrupt people dare not disclose their account books
By the Middle Ages
Accounting is moralized by Christianity
Believing that life is about paying off the debt of sin
Christ gave his blood to save the world
Everyone in the world owes a debt
It is also mentioned in Revelation (20:12)
Go to God after death
Everyone will have a book of life
It records what he did during his lifetime.
accept the final judgment
This concept of debt develops a culture of accountability
Man is responsible for his debt to God and Jesus
How to be responsible?
Just buy indulgences from the church
If a businessman makes too much money
You will think yourself guilty
Hoping to offset these evils by doing good
Donate large sums of wealth to the church
Because too many people bought indulgences
The Holy See is full of accountants
Count how much money you make every day
The church deposits large amounts of money in banks to earn interest
But where does this interest come from?
In fact, the bank takes the church's money and lends it out.
So on the one hand the church condemns usury
But at the same time he benefits from it
It was not until the 13th century that there was a great leap forward in accounting technology.
Pisa merchant Fibonacci introduced Arabic numerals to Italy
In the past, European calculation methods using Roman numerals were very limited.
For example, a partnership may encounter problems with profit sharing and dividend distribution.
To divide a profit by several people
You have to use Arabic numerals to do it
At that time, Italian schools began to teach students to use abacus
Florence's company (Giovanni Farolfi) had the earliest double-entry ledger
When dealing with installment loans, you can calculate how much you have to repay each month with principal and interest.
Like the famous Medici family in Florence
It started with rigorous accounting
Giovanni Benci, Cosimo's QC
Worked at Banco Medici in Rome since the age of 15
Responsible for settling the Medici family's ledgers and secret ledgers
Never miss an account
If there are any abnormalities in the accounts
The bank manager will be summoned immediately
Go to Medici’s palace to review each item
It is this rigorous attitude towards accounting that
Allowed the Medici family to dominate the European banking world at that time
Became the richest man in Europe at the time
Cosimo used the money to sponsor art and translation projects
Translated many lost ancient Greek texts from Byzantium
It made the aristocratic circles at that time yearn more for art and philosophy
As a result, the Medici family also began to look down on accountants.
I don’t want my children to be contaminated by these vulgar commercial atmospheres.
For example, after Medici’s eldest son Lorenzo inherited the family business,
Strongly sponsored Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo
But I don’t know how to manage a bank or check accounts.
Instead, the audit work is distributed to the managers of each branch.
This gives banks more authority to issue loans
Even if many people still haven’t paid and have bad credit
You can still continue lending
Ultimately leading to the decline of the Medici family's banking career
It can be said that the Medici family is the accountant of both success and failure.
early 18th century
Britain because of years of war
Debt soars to £50m
Accounted for 60% of GDP at that time
Walpole, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, thought of a way
Design a national fund to invest in a company called the South Sea Company
South Sea Company used falsified financial statements to lure investors
Create the illusion that the company is very profitable
After people entered the market to speculate in stocks, the stocks rose sharply.
The company then uses the money earned to pay dividends and dividends
Make investors think that the company is really making money
This method is worthy of being called a Ponzi scheme of the 18th century.
As speculation overheats
bubble eventually bursts
in just a few weeks
South Sea Company share price fell from £1,000 to £400
Many British royals and nobles were victims
Even Newton got involved
Lost £20,000
Irish philosopher John Toland also suffered heavy losses
I can't even afford to see a doctor before I die.
The government later stepped in to bail out the South China Sea Company.
findings
Robert Knight, the cashier who falsified the accounts
As early as 6 months ago, he fled to Europe with key ledgers.
After this South Sea bubble case
The UK has only begun to pay attention to the problem of false accounts
Commentator John Trenchard said at the time
Annual stock statements for each company
All should be sworn in by an accountant in front of a fiscal and tax judge.
There is no fraud in this report
Open and transparent accounting operations can ensure investors make correct judgments
Otherwise, it will just be a profit-seeking enterprise and treat shareholders as leeks.
At the same time, France
But it is an authoritarian and closed world
Unlike the UK, which was founded on business, France does not attach great importance to accounting.
Audits are only conducted every three years
Tax collectors have plenty of time to embezzle public funds for loan sharking
In addition, the auditors are poorly trained and it is difficult to see through fake accounts.
So corruption was already commonplace in France in the 18th century.
At that time, the nobility and big landowners accounted for less than 3% of the total population.
But owns 90% of France’s wealth
That’s why French citizens demand accounting transparency
The assets of these wealthy people should be thoroughly investigated
But rich people all know that if their assets are thoroughly investigated,
The next step is to tax the rich
That’s why the rich will resist the audit with all their strength
before the french revolution
France has never had a central accounting system
No one knows how much income and debt the country has
This is actually a good thing for the country’s rulers
Vergennes, finance minister of Louis 16, once said:
The national debt situation must never be made public.
Once it is made public, it will damage the legitimacy of the rule.
How much of the king's wealth should be kept secret
To maintain the mystery
Let the people not know how strong the country is
But during the American Revolutionary War
Because France borrowed heavily to intervene in the war
The fiscal deficit is too serious
Louis XVI found it increasingly difficult to borrow money
Recruiting Geneva banker Jacques Necker as French financial director
to rectify the finances
In 1781, Nick published the "Financial Report to the King"
This is the first time in history
French government releases official budget
This report actually deliberately underreported military expenditures.
to beautify the government's finances
It looks like there is no debt
But this book satisfies people's curiosity
Let people know where all the taxpayer money goes
in just one month
This report sold 60,000 copies
These accounts reveal
The French government spends only a few million on public construction
But tens of millions were spent on royal expenses
Even the king’s sky-high ginseng fees have been made public
This makes the people and those in power very dissatisfied.
The foreign minister at the time told Louis XVI
Opening up the accounts is an insult to the nation.
Originally, people were loyal to their rulers
But if open and transparent financial management methods are cited
Soon France's national character will be gone
So the French political establishment is bent on getting rid of Nick.
But people support Nick
Consider him a fiscal hero who practices accounting transparency
When the French Revolution broke out
Nick was also welcomed into the Palace of Versailles
After the revolution, the French constitution stipulated
All government finances must be published to the public in the form of "public accounts reports"
Creation of a "bureau of accountability"
Have a dedicated accountant submit an annual accounting report
So since the French Revolution
Fiscal accountability has become the core language of modern politics
People began to know how to use accounting reports and balance sheets to judge the quality of the government.
Those in power must be honest and abide by financial disciplines
Or is it corruption and leaving debts to children and grandchildren?
You can see it clearly with the public accounting statements
Founding Fathers of the United States, Franklin, Jefferson, Washington
These people all have one thing in common
They are all trained as accountants
This is actually the bookkeeping culture that originated from the early Puritan businessmen who immigrated to the United States.
At that time, businessmen who had just immigrated to America had to be proficient in accounting work.
Calculate how much the firm owes its partners
And how much labor the number of slaves on American plantations translated into
It can be said that the early history of the United States is the history of management accounting.
This accounting culture also influenced the Founding Fathers
Jefferson's diary records all expenditures in minute detail
I even write down how much I lost in the next game of chess.
Washington was once accused
Profiting from the American Revolution
At this time, Washington disclosed his own account books.
Audit the country's accounts
And Franklin was good at using bookkeeping to calculate profits.
Every transaction expense in life will be recorded
Franklin thought this was not a calculation.
It is a kind of discipline and virtue
Children should be allowed to develop this habit from an early age
To keep life in order
For example, in 1753
When Franklin took over as Royal Postmaster General of the United States
Design an accounting system to manage postal operations
Being able to handle which packages should be taxed
There are also records of letters that cannot be delivered.
Make the postal system error-free
Weber, the father of sociology, believed that
This kind of Puritan ethics that fully integrates accounting into life and work
is the reason for the rise of capitalism
For example, Franklin's famous saying: Time is money.
It is to introduce accounting principles into life
Quantify time into money-making time costs
So Franklin himself developed the habit of going to bed early and getting up early.
Because I slept an extra hour
It's just a waste of an hour of making money.
in capitalist society
Everyone is like their own accountant
Counting every minute and every second how much time and cost you have wasted
You should try your best to balance your expenses in 24 hours
in other words
Without accounting work ethics, there would be no capitalism
At the height of the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century
People's mentality towards accounting has always been divided into two groups.
One group of people admires accounting
Think this is an economic model of rational calculation
Can make capitalism more rational and orderly
But another group of people thinks
Accountants are nothing but sophisticated tools of fraud
It’s just a gimmick for companies to deceive investors and cut off leeks.
For example, when the United States built railroads in the 1850s,
There are many cases of financial fraud
At that time, there was not enough capital in the United States to build railroads.
New York Stock Exchange opens to British investors
But to attract investment
There must be clear financial statements
Need an accountant to calculate operating costs, mileage fares
How much should you charge for a section of railway to support operations and make profits?
We must also consider the depreciation rate and how often the steam engine needs to be repaired and replaced.
The accounts of these railway companies are very complex
Even if it's fake, most people won't be able to tell.
Moreover, large companies at that time refused to disclose their accounts.
Not only does it not publish financial reports,
No shareholders' meeting will be held
Daniel Drew, a railway entrepreneur at the time, said bluntly
If you are not an insider
Buy stocks on Wall Street
It's like looking at a cow by candlelight when buying a cow
A lot of money injected into the railway industry
In the end, they all control their own stocks through insider trading.
into the pockets of a few industrial capitalists
At that time, Mark Twain sarcastically said
The railway is like a lie
More railways must be built
To avoid lies being exposed
This made the country realize that it could not allow a free market economy
These railway companies must be regulated
It was during this period that many accounting associations in the United States emerged.
Used to monitor the accounts of these large companies
Other European countries have followed suit
Establish national accounting standards
For example, we now hear about the Big Four accounting firms
Deloitte, Zicheng, Ernst & Young, Anhou
It was during this period that it appeared in Britain
Because in the mid-19th century, American industry developed rapidly
No time to train accountants
So I used British accountants from the beginning.
It’s just that accountants didn’t report real figures for American companies at that time.
It's more like advertising
Because U.S. companies are not required to file financial statements
Most corporate accounts are opaque
Even if the company fails
Outsiders don’t know what the real financial situation is.
early 20th century
Harvard economist William Ripley said
Companies do not announce earnings
The economic foundation of the United States will suffer because of the opacity of these companies.
The business community at that time actually responded that
No matter how strict the regulations are
If a company wants to commit fraud, there is still a way
So don’t expect that opening the books will solve the problem.
In this way, large companies continue to use publicity to falsify asset statements.
Created the boom and growth of the New York Stock Exchange in the 1920s
Until the Great Depression of 1929
After the stock market crash
Wall Street traders discovered
Those stocks that I originally promoted
The market value of the company is simply fake
U.S. GDP fell by 30% and unemployment rate rose to 25%
This resulted in the government having to intervene
President Roosevelt vigorously reformed
To stop corporate fraud and false reporting
Introduced the Securities Act of 1933
Require companies to provide complete balance sheets
The Securities and Exchange Commission was established the following year
Responsible for setting the accounting standards for your listed company
With sound supervision regulations
Coupled with the stable economic growth in the 20 years after the war,
People have become more trusting in the accounting industry
It can be said that the 20 years after the war were the golden age of accountants
Until the 1970s
There has been a series of accounting scandals
Only then did it hit the accounting profession again.
Pennsylvania Central Railroad Company Fake Accounts
Earned $4 million in profit
The eight major accounting firms in the United States at that time
A total of 200 lawsuits were filed
The most fatal blow was the "Anlong Scandal" in 2000
In 2000
Accounting firm Arthur Andersen hired by Texas energy company Enlon
This company used falsified accounting statements to inflate the value of its own stock.
<font color=#FFEA00FF>We 're never satisfied
. And I don't want us to ever be satisfied with the stock price.</font>
<font color=#FFEA00FF>The stock price should always be higher.</font>
<font color=#FFEA00FF>It should always be higher.</font>
<font color=#FFEA00FF>Enron
posted a 30 percent jump in second quarter profits,</font>
<font color=#FFEA00FF>as Web-based trading boosted its wholesale energy business
.</font>
In 2001, Arthur Andersen's auditors had actually discovered the fraud problem
But Anlong's senior managers put pressure on them
For Arthur Andersen
If this is revealed
It's like losing a big customer
It’s a loss of $100 million in annual consulting fees.
So Arthur Andersen ended up helping to conceal the matter.
Created the largest accounting scandal in U.S. history
The scandal also reflects the accounting industry's overreliance on consulting fees.
To make money from customers
Naturally there will be a relationship of interest
Impossible to be impartial
So afterwards, President George W. Bush passed a new bill (Sarbanes–Oxley Act) in 2002
Ensure that auditors must be impartial and independent
I hope this kind of fraud won't happen again.
The Anlong scandal left an impression on the world
I think all accountants are corrupt and greedy
<font color=#F5FF00FF>A city employee since 1980s and a world class thief according to the FBI</font>
<font color=#F5FF00FF>A city employee since 1980s and a world class thief according to the FBI FBI.</font>
<font color=#F5FF00FF>58 year old Rita Crunwell, is accused of siphoning thirty million
dollars from city account since 2006.</font>
This also unexpectedly laid the foundation for the 2008 economic crisis.
Because accounting supervision regulations are not strict,
Accounting firms are actually becoming more vulnerable
Businesses and banks have become more powerful
So even before the economic crisis
The accounting firm has already warned banks and supervisory authorities in advance.
Says subprime mortgage portfolio securities are extremely risky
The banking industry also ignored their voices
On the contrary, after the economic crisis broke out
The banks in turn accused the Big Four accounting firms of
Failure to fulfill accounting responsibilities
Saying they are the culprits of the problem
Put the blame on the accountant
But so far
No accountants were jailed as a result of the 2008 financial crisis
Why Wall Street is blaming the problem on accountants
But they dare not catch the financial criminals behind the scenes
According to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder:
If legal action is taken against a financial institution
will make the financial system unstable
<font color=#FFEE00FF>Why are no bankers imprisoned? </font>
<font color=#FFEE00FF>Why were there no bankers in jail?</font>
<font color=#FFEE00FF>Well there were bankers that did go to jail
.</font>
<font color=#FFEE00FF>I think people are concerned that the very high level bankers didn't go to jail.</font> <font color=#FFEE00FF>I think people are concerned
that the very high level bankers didn't go to jail. < /font>
<font color=#FFEE00FF>But I think you have to understand</font>
<font color=#FFEE00FF>but I think you have to understand</font>
<font color=#FFEE00FF>
That if we could have made those cases, we certainly would have.</font>
<font color=#FFEE00FF>Given the statues
that we had to work with, the burdens of proof that we had to meet,</font>
<font color=#FFEE00FF>We were simply unable to do that.</font> <font color=#FFEE00FF>
it was simply, we were simply unable to do that.</font>
To put it bluntly, these banks are too big to fail.
You can't really check their books
Otherwise it will shake the foundation of the country
This gives the reputation of accounting and Wall Street
have become more questionable after the economic crisis
In today’s video, we introduce the big history of accounting
we will find
The rise and fall of a country largely depends on its attitude towards accounting
From ancient Greece and Rome
Politicians know how to consolidate their power by disclosing their accounts
great achievements of the renaissance
It also relies on the accounting skills of the Medici family.
Ignoring accounting and allowing false accounts
Will become the fuse that triggers financial crisis
Caused the South Sea Bubble and the French Revolution
In the eyes of rulers, accounting transparency is dangerous
May cause the legitimacy of rule to be shaken
But in the eyes of the ruled
If a country cannot even manage its finances well,
How dare people still pay taxes to the government?
Even in a modern democratic society
There are various regulations governing
There are still many scandals involving falsified accounts and financial fraud by politicians and companies.
And to expose these scandals
The key is those accounting books
almost
Whoever controls the ledger controls the rise and fall of the country
That’s why the author said:
The rise and fall of a country must have an accountant