最近這幾年全球都掀起了反移民的浪潮從歐洲到美國從澳大利亞到日本右翼思想抬頭到處都在抗議自己的國家引進了太多的移民川普當選的其中一個重要原因也是因為右派選民對美國過於寬鬆的移民政策感到不滿 Generally speaking, in the思潮 of the opposition to immigration, the term "immigration" is often associated with the people or illegal immigrants who have fallen behind the country. They are worried that these people will take away the work of the locals, and they are also afraid that they will bring higher crime rates and increase the government's financial expenditure and burden. But there is a country facing immigration problem which is completely opposite That is Singapore The immigrants they accept are all rich and super rich Until 2024 Singapore's million dollar rich Millionaire number has exceeded 24 million people It is equivalent to you in Singapore street Every time you meet 25 people There is a price over $1 million This is the $1 million without counting the real estate value 目前全球有大約三千多名十億美元富豪Billionaire其中有54名在新加坡新加坡人口也不過才590萬也就是說新加坡所佔有的全球十億富豪比例是他們總人口佔全球人口比例的22倍 You may say, how can this be called a problem? The rich bring money to your country, how can you ask for it? Of course there are many benefits, we all know these But since 2022, Singapore has faced the financial crisis that has never been seen in modern history of human society At the same time, it also brought a series of problems and crises It is not a new thing for a rich man to immigrate to Singapore Everyone knows that But what we don't know is How terrible is the amount of rich people immigrated to Singapore in the past three years In 2024, there were about 47 billion rich people and more than 35 million rich people immigrated to Singapore It brought about $150 billion in wealth 這是什麼概念?相當於一年內所湧入的新財富等於你這個國家GDP的接近三分之一這是近代人類歷史上從未見過的財富遷移對新加坡來說相當於一場經濟巨浪 By the end of 2024, the capital management scale of Singapore AUM has reached the unprecedented 6.07 trillion new coins About 4.7 trillion US dollars Not only the highest in Singapore's history According to the current exchange rate It has also exceeded the highest in Hong Kong's history The total AUM scale in 2021 And we all know The biggest factor that led to this wealth move It's the collective escape from the rich in China So today we will talk about Why they choose Singapore? And so much wealth What challenges are there for Singapore? What impact does it have on ordinary Singaporeans? In addition, we will also discuss For those who want to immigrate to Singapore Middle-class families Or for ordinary Chinese people who want to work in Singapore Is it still appropriate?  First, let's talk about why rich people are so fond of Singapore In the current 6 trillion capital management scale in Singapore Only 23% is from Singapore's local funds 77% are foreign funds And in recent years, one of the main pushers to promote the growth of Singapore's wealth is a financial tool that most people outside of financial rights have never heard of It's called Family Office Family Office In other words, family partner Some people may have heard of it But it's just a half-sister So let me first explain to you What is the family office? Why do rich people like it so much? But first of all, setting up a family office is actually just one of the three ways for super rich people to apply for permanent residence in Singapore. It's not the only way. The project launched by the Singapore government is called Global Investor Program, Global Investor Program, or GIP. The threshold of this GIP program is extremely high. Singapore only approves hundreds of applications every year. In fact, it's more like a private club, not a immigration visa project. Let's see which three ways to invest in Singapore Method 1. Invest at least 10 million Singaporean dollars to open a new Singapore enterprise or invest in existing Singapore enterprises The current exchange rate of Singaporean dollars and RMB is about 5.5, which is 55 million RMB And this enterprise cannot be an air-raid company It must hire at least 30 employees, half of which must be Singaporean citizens The second way is to invest at least 25 million RMB into a fund approved by the Singapore Economic Development Agency The fund will be invested into local enterprises again The last way is to set up a family office To meet the conditions, you must set up a single family office The management of assets must reach at least 200 million RMB That is about 11 billion RMB One quarter of the money, which is RMB50 million, must be invested in Singapore's local companies or funds and last at least 5 years In addition, the family office must hire at least 5 professional managers within 5 years 3 of them must be Singapore citizens It is a coincidence, because recently, family offices are especially loved by millions of rich people And now, Singapore has become one of the largest and largest countries in the world So what is a family office? 你可以把它想象成一个私人的投资和资产管理公司但只为一个家庭服务富人们不想把钱放在银行里成为银行众多客户的其中一员于是设立了一个独立的实体企业然后聘请专业人士来管理他们的财富这些加班管理人通常是前银行家律师、基金管理人等等 These professionals are responsible for the whole-party planning, investment and preservation of rich people's money Including purchasing insurance, setting up trust, purchasing real estate, etc. Let wealth be passed down for generations So the addition is the wealth headquarters of the rich The ladies love to work overtime, mainly for two reasons. First, privacy is very high. The name of overtime legal entity does not need to have any relationship with the name of the family. So unless they reveal themselves, the outside world will not know who is behind this overtime. And overtime does not need to announce its profits to the outside like investment fund and tax fund. Because they manage their own money. Second, tax benefits As long as the family members are paid in full by the government and invest in local communities then the income of the investment is almost free or only take in the minimum tax rate Now you understand what is family office But the family members can only give the rich people the convenience of moving their wealth to Singapore but can't explain why they choose Singapore so suddenly After all, Singapore is not the only financial center in the world that can provide convenient and tax-free discounts There are also Hong Kong, U.S.A and Dubai On the surface, the reasons for choosing Singapore are very clear Let's talk about some obvious advantages of Singapore First, Singapore's politics is extremely stable Since the founding of the country in 1965, there has been a struggle between the People's Action Party and the PAP For rich people, they need long-term stable and predictable policies They know that it is almost impossible for Singapore to change the tax law suddenly Or to step up to suppress the policies of private companies and investors Second, everyone is very confident in Singapore's rule of law. Even if one day the political party of Singapore is replaced, rich people also have confidence that society will not be in chaos, but to do the right hand of the law. In Singapore, rich people do not need to worry about the right to private property being smuggled by the government with unnecessary charges. They believe that the court can make fair and reasonable judgments on all acts that violate the individual and the enterprise. 3. Singapore is one of the youngest countries in the world According to the ranking of CPI, Singapore has never been ranked fifth in the world Same level as Denmark, Finland and Switzerland How awesome is this? Japan was ranked 20th last year The United States ranked 28th It is also the country that provides the audience with more attention Australia 10th, Canada 15th, Taiwan 25th, Korea 30th, Malaysia 57th, China 76th, Russia 154th, North Korea 170th The rich like to put wealth in the government's hands It's not a moral factor But a clean country means a country with a transparent and fair rule of law which means the contract signed by the rich the right to property and wealth are safe and secure In a clean country, there is no hidden cost in investing and doing business No need to budget the purchase of officials, tax, protection fees, etc. which means that it will not be forced to do illegal activities Another important point is something that many ordinary people ignore that is, the money of the Qing and French countries has a higher flow in the global range When your wealth passes through Singapore and the certification of these countries in Switzerland When you want to transfer your wealth it can be said that it is unparalleled The bank is more willing to believe that this money is clean and reliable Why is it that mainland Chinese people are now creating a very troublesome bank account worldwide? Are there a lot of restrictions? To be honest, it's because they don't trust you The bank is afraid that your money will be unclear Afraid that you will wash money Afraid that you will go around China's foreign exchange controls etc. 4. Tax gain advantage Singapore does not have capital gain tax Capital gain tax So stocks and real estate property Do not have to pay tax for a penny Even sell the whole company Do not have to pay tax The corporate tax is 17% Is the lowest among all developed countries The developed countries often have estate tax The US estate tax is 40% European countries also usually use 20% to 30% But Singapore does not charge any estate tax Fifth, safety Transfer the wealth to a place Often means that the whole family will move here to live Children have to go to school here No matter what the world ranking is about natural, stable and life safety Even if Singapore is not the first, it is still the top Although everyone often says that China's first-line cities are very good Like Shanghai where I used to live I do think Shanghai is pretty good Never need to worry about any violent incidents But from a security perspective Still can't compare with Singapore Especially children In my personal experience, for example, my 9 year old daughter often eat in the mall and chat with the adults in the restaurant after dinner I am assured that she can go shopping by herself It's okay to cross the floor She can come back after shopping I think it's okay as long as she doesn't leave the mall building I definitely wouldn't dare to do this in Malaysia Even when I was in Shanghai before, I didn't dare我也不敢 Chinese patriots always show off their safety But look at the parents who are at the school everyday You will know how much safety they have Many primary and secondary school students in Singapore are taking bus or subway to school I am talking about bus Not school bus For rich families, except for safety, Singapore still has the world's top hospitals, international schools and universities So from political stability to law improvement, government cleanliness, tax evasion to security Singapore can be said to be designed as a country where all the world's elites can safely settle their families and wealth If Singapore is not because of a natural disadvantage that cannot be changed That is, if it is too hot and humid Then the rich concentration must be much higher than now Okay, the above reasons that Singapore attracts rich people It should be said that many people understand it But these advantages of Singapore have always been there This cannot explain the sudden rise in the past three years The historical wealth of the great move At the end of 2021, there were only about 700 jobs in Singapore The number of jobs increased in 2022 At the end of 2024, there were already 2000 jobs The number of jobs doubled in 3 years So what happened in these 3 years? 2020年香港頒布國安法2021年習近平全面打壓民營企業2022年動態清零所以與其說這是財富大遷移更準確的說這是中國富豪的財富大遷移 Hong Kong has always been the absolute financial center of Asia. After the 2019 anti-extradition movement broke out, Xi Jinping imposed the National Security Law in Hong Kong in 2020. The National Security Law gave the Hong Kong government greater monitoring power, allowing the CCP to operate in Hong Kong, and to use very broad and vague legal regulations to freeze assets and repress people. 甚至是一些根本沒有政治色彩只是跟西方企業正常的商業交易也有可能會被懷疑是通敵或間諜行為而惹來麻煩中共對於顛覆國家政權最模糊不清的非常寬泛的定義把香港商界精英搞得人心惶惶對那些在全球都有商業網絡的富豪家族來說香港這個曾經的避風港不再安全 For example, Xiao Jianhua Xiao Jianhua is not an ordinary rich man He is the bank of the Crown Prince He manages the wealth of the most powerful political families in China He has six listed companies under the control of Ming Tian Group In 2017, Xiao Jianhua was kidnapped by the CCP in a room in Hong Kong's 4G hotel and brought back to the mainland He disappeared for several years The media reported that he was detained in Shanghai Until July 4, 2022 Shanghai Provincial Prosecutor's Office announced that Xiao Jianhua was sentenced to 13 years in prison The incident of Xiao Jianhua made many Hong Kong rich people feel sad A person who is so close to the high-level CCP And still a Canadian citizen Can be disappeared at any time and place Then no one is safe The government of a country can actually send a so-called democratic rule of Hong Kong to kidnap people back to the mainland This is unimaginable in any rule of law country It is said that the rule of law of a country that has not changed for 50 years has not been implemented for half of the time It is just a coincidence From the perspective of rule of law and human rights Hong Kong is no different from an ordinary mainland city So Hong Kong people started to escape According to the data provided by German Neumann Foundation From 2020 to the end of 2023, in the short three years There are 600,000 Hong Kong people who left Hong Kong During this period The real estate value purchased by Hong Kong people in the UK is more than 1 billion pounds 根據金融時報的報導2022年香港的高淨值人群也就是不包含房產在內流動資產超過100萬美金的人一年內就狂跌了14%香港高淨值人群佔人口比例的排名也一下從全球排名第八掉到了第十二位 Of course, Xi Jinping not only worked in Hong Kong, but also implemented a series of policy of "swinging the trend" in the mainland. From 2020 to 2022, Xi Jinping began to suppress a series of private companies. First of all, it was to strike the education and training industry. An order to hit the head, let a trillion-dollar market collapse overnight. More than 10 million people lost their jobs. 2020年底,馬雲在外談峰會上批評了中國銀行體系 关注你发展管是有问题的时候和预判有问题的才去管但是我们现在管的能力越来越强监的能力明显不足就因为这几句话短短几天后习近平叫停了蚂蚁金服的上市计划这原本预计会是全球史上最大的IPO之后蚂蚁金服被迫拆分重组曾经的马爸爸马云从公众视野当中消失了好几年 除了馬雲,滴滴因為不聽黨的話在美國上市,惹來龍言大怒兩天後,國家網信辦宣布對滴滴啟動網絡安全審查並強迫滴滴APP從所有平台上下架四個月後,網信辦宣布滴滴被罰款80億人民幣滴滴宣布正式從紐約交易所退市 從螞蟻金服到滴滴打車中共對民營企業家們發出了非常明確的信號要在這片土地上賺錢你就必須聽黨的指揮沒有什麼是真正屬於你的這一切都是黨的是國家的 与此同时习近平宣布了他的共同富裕计划这更是把民营企业家们吓得冷汗直流共同富裕听起来不就是现代版的打土豪分田地吗于是各大企业纷纷自愿捐款表重心当然这个自愿是打了很大的引号的啊 Alibaba donated 1 billion, Tencent donated 1 billion, Pinduoduo, Meituan, JD, each donated 10 billion And many other companies like Zijie, Baidu, Didi, NetEase, etc. All donated tens of billions to hundreds of billions The emperor said, "We scared the entrepreneurs to spit out hundreds of billions" Who dares to stay in such a place for a long time? Companies like Ali Tencent They can't run away with big business But those not so famous Chinese hidden rich people If you can run away, run away If you can get the assets out, get them out I just arrived in Singapore in early 2023 When I arrived at the bank to open a bank A private bank boss of a Singapore bank said to me personally There are too many Chinese rich people opening a bank in Singapore It has been three months since the shooting If the rich and entrepreneurs have already found that Xi Jinping is walking back to Mao Zedong's old path Then many Chinese companies will have to go to the 2022 dynamic clear Only then can we see the real bottom of Xi Jinping dynamic clear 封城 把小区的门焊死把健康的人强行拉到坊舱大白强行破门用木棍把家里的狗狗打死乌鲁木齐火灾贵州大巴等等等让很多人看到了中国的所谓法治社会实际上是非常浅层的可以说是虚假的 因为到了关键时刻其实共产党是凌驾于法律之上的党在法上王在法上他们说什么就是什么皇帝以及他身边的人根本就不受法律约束于是有能力有条件的中产家庭也开始大批量的逃离中国 Let's take a look at the data provided by Handi & Partners This shows the growth and decrease of high-value people in 2023 High-value people are people who do not calculate real estate and have more than $1 million in cash, stocks and other assets From here we can see that in the year of 2023, China has escaped 13,800 high-ranking officials In 2024, another 1.5 million people left But you should know that this is only a statistic of high-ranking people And more families that do not meet the definition of high-ranking people are also fleeing If you want to escape from the rich in China, where would you go? Of course there are many choices in the world America, Canada, Australia, Dubai, etc. If you want to go to a developed and legalized country But you don't want to go to a language and culture that is completely different from China It seems that Singapore is the best choice Taiwan has a war zone Hong Kong has been colonized Malaysia is not a developed country Only Singapore is Singapore is a country that mainly has Chinese people Although English is the main language But many people can speak Chinese Food and culture are almost the same as Guangdong and Fujian In addition, many Chinese rich people are making their wives and children immigrate Continue to stay in China to make money So Singapore still has the advantage of being close to home It is convenient for rich people to visit their wives and children In addition to the advantages of Singapore, a large number of Chinese and Hong Kong rich people have entered Singapore. In just a few years, Singapore has become the new financial center of Asia. On the surface, this is a good thing for Singapore. But such a wealth suddenly came to a country with only 5.9 million population Is it a good thing or a bad thing for ordinary people in Singapore? First of all, these wealth must have brought economic growth And created a lot of employment opportunities The most prosperous is of course the banking and finance industry, but the economic prosperity will gradually penetrate into various industries, from real estate, service, catering, consumption, medical education, training, etc. The country's tax revenue must also increase, even if it does not get the tax from the rich, the government can still get the huge consumption tax, real estate printing tax, corporate tax, etc. This money has brought better financial support to Singapore's medical, education, public transportation, etc. The quality of public service in Singapore is undoubtedly superior to tiger's tail. Some of these foreign funds will also be invested in Singapore's entrepreneurial ecosystem, funding local technology companies and promoting innovation. These are obvious benefits But for ordinary people in Singapore It is indeed challenging First is the high price and rent I just arrived in Singapore in early 2023 That was the peak of rent According to the intermediary, it has risen by 60% to 80% At that time, Singapore's rent was so high that many foreigners could not bear it They could only choose to leave Singapore or move to Malaysia When Singapore housing prices were rising, it didn't affect locals. Because Singapore has the most successful government-funded economic housing, which is called HDB. The quality of HDB is not bad, well managed and well-equipped. Living in HDB in Singapore is not underestimated. After all, 80% of Singaporeans live in HDB. Most middle-class families also live in HDB. Only a few richer people will live in private houses. But the problem is that the price of HDB is also rising Let's look at the price of HDB's second-hand house growth in the past 10 years We can see that from 2014 to 2019 HDB's annual growth is only one-thousandth There are even a few years of negative numbers Then it started to rise since 2020 In 2021, it rose by 12.7% In 2022, it rose by 10.4% In 2023, it calmed down a bit But it rose by 9.6% again last year For those who are used to the Chinese people who have been turning over the real estate every five years in the past 20 years They may think it's nothing 但你对比历史数据就知道这是非常疯狂的涨幅因为HDB的功能本来就是用来房住不炒的新加坡政府从来就不是以一个投资资产的角度去设计HDB的但现在即便主屋是不卖给外国人的却依然随着整个社会的财富突然暴增而受到波及2024年超过100万新币的HDB成交了1035套是2023年的两倍 HDB is still the same, let alone private residence, high-end apartment and land residence The sound of housing prices and rents naturally means the overall price of the goods In fact, the price of Singapore is never cheap Because Singapore's land area is too small, mainly rely on imports But in the past three years, the price has been increasing Daily necessities, food, transportation, and food and drink are all on the rise From 2022 to 2024, Singapore has been rated as the most expensive city in the world for three consecutive years. According to UBS's report, Singapore has become the most unbalanced country in the financial distribution of the Asia-Pacific region. In 2023, Singapore's Gini coefficient has reached 70, more than Indonesia, Hong Kong, Taiwan and mainland China. Of course, I want to emphasize that the Gini coefficient is the balance of wealth distribution Gini coefficient is high, it doesn't necessarily mean that the bottom layer is worse For example, everyone in a country is poor So your Gini coefficient is not high But it doesn't mean that your bottom layer is better than Singapore's bottom layer 但這幾年來確實因為新加坡的富人數量增長太快導致了貧富懸殊的加速擴大雖然說新加坡有24萬名百萬美元富翁但同時也有大約80萬名成年人的淨值產不足1萬美元 So now this gap is more obvious than ever On the one hand, the high-end luxury houses, international schools and private clubs On the other hand, ordinary Singaporeans are worried Whether their children's future can afford to buy a house But of course, Singapore government is very clear about this situation and continuously push out policies to deal with For example, in 2023, they increased the printing tax for foreign buyers to 60% At the same year, the Singapore government announced that it would pay 10 billion dollars in cash to support Singaporeans with lower income When I first arrived in Singapore in 2023, I interviewed a few driving teachers when I was on the bus. I asked them what they thought about the high price of Singapore's goods for the past two years. I thought they would be willing to come again. But they didn't have much complaints. It was mainly because the house owner solved their housing problem I said your house is cheap But the living must be cheap, it has been increasing But the master laughed and said No problem, the government sends money Supermarket, shopping mall, shopping mall, etc. Send every month So, as long as the new wealth of Singapore can be invested in the local market, create enough employment opportunities, young companies can run the bank and increase their HDB, then these new wealth is far greater than the interest of Singapore. This is also a challenge to the government's management ability. But from their past results, I am still more confident. Finally, I will answer a question Often, some people ask me whether they should immigrate to Singapore or try to work in Singapore Because this part is mainly aimed at Chinese audience The following gold and silver coins I mentioned are all in RMB My conclusion on this question is I think that now Singapore is only suitable for two extreme groups Either you are a rich person with a net worth of RMB50 million, or a high-end middle-class with a family income of RMB3 million to 5 million, or you are a worker who earns thousands of dollars a month in a county city in China. And the most inappropriate place to live in Singapore is a middle-class middle-class family with a family income of RMB100 million to RMB200 million. Let's talk about rich and middle class. I don't need to say how many billion or billions of wealth I have left. I can go anywhere I want, it depends on what I want. So here we only talk about ordinary rich and middle class. It depends on whether you are going to retire or continue to make money after you leave China. If you have a sum of money and want to retire, I think you should not consider Singapore if you have less than 30 million. Money is not a gold flower here. 30 million for a house is not worth much. It's better to go to Malaysia next door The hardware is not worse than Singapore But tens of millions of RMB can live like a king in Kuala Lumpur Especially if your child is already an adult You don't need to consider education and the requirements for security It's not that high So Malaysia should be a better choice But if you are not ready to retire If you are a middle-class middle-class You don't want your child to continue to be brainwashed by domestic education Then send your child to an international school Wife comes to study with you You continue to make money in China Then you just have to calculate the cost yourself Considerable Now many people do this 我帮你估算一下成本国际学校学杂费一年大约35万房租稍微好一点但不太奢华的算你一个月6000新币一年40万其他吃饭交通娱乐通讯等等大约一年50到70万所以母亲家一个孩子一年花费大约是在100到150万人民币吧这还不算上你经常往返的机票钱哦 But if your child is going to a government school, then you can save 300,000 to 400,000 RMB per year. But the government schools in Singapore are also very tight. Then why do I think low-income workers are also suitable to go to Singapore? If you were a physical laborer who had to pay thousands of RMB in the city, then you can at least earn thousands of RMB every month when you come to Singapore. Then the living standards will definitely be improved. Low-end middle-class people are not suitable to come to Singapore because if you want to maintain your low-income living standards in China the cost you have to pay is much higher As a result, the quality of life has dropped But low-end workers have no bad habits such as exquisite service, butter and fruit color spa and hand-poured coffee These are not things you care about And also physical laborers You are in a developed country You can live more dignity than you in China More respected by society But of course What I am talking about here It's just material quality of life We consider whether we want to live in a place Of course there are other factors For example, the national figure Law and justice Simplification of human relations No need to give gifts And the value of children in the process of growth and so on For these things, whether we are willing to pay Singapore's higher living expenses, everyone will have a piece of the stone in their heart. So if you hesitate, I suggest the best way is to try to live for a while and feel it yourself before making a decision. 好啦 那么今天我就分享到这里我是老周 横眉冷对 直言不讳我们下期再见