Hello everyone, I am the American Army, your American explorer In 2020, the electric car's engine thrust has achieved Tesla The price has tripled in one year In 2023, the AI language model's horizontal air launch has achieved the English-speaking answer The price has tripled as well So what will be the next subversive opportunity? Which company will take over the new era? Today, the American Army will introduce such an industry to you Yes, the industry we are going to analyze today is the humanoid robot industry. Last September, the new Optimus robot was launched at the Tesla Robot X Conference. The experience was very different. In 1925, a group of robots dressed in cotton hats and with a young girl in them were also on the rise. It seems that it only existed in science fiction movies, but now it is gradually coming to life. Because of the founder, Huang Renxun said that the humanoid robot will become the most explosive potential market for AIY Tesla CEO Musk said that by 2040, the number of humanoid robots will exceed human But don't think that this will happen many years later According to the budget of the US dollar, by 2025, that is, this year, the number of humanoid robots will reach 180,000 And by 2030, it will reach 1 million The annual growth rate is 90% and the growth is completely not dependent on AI In the past two years, we have seen not only all the big technologies enter the humanoid robot industry, but also the development of the first-generation companies such as Figure AI and Zhiyuan Robot such as Yu Hou Chunshun. The humanoid robot industry now has a feeling of the day before the AI explosion. Will the humanoid robot really become the next AI? Or will it become a bubble of capital like the original universe? How should ordinary investors participate in this technological revolution? Next, let's have Mito take you to explore the secret of the humanoid robot. This episode of research took me more than two months. The content is very hard to understand. I believe you will have a lot of gains after watching it. If you look at humanoid robots with a long view, you will find that their explosion is destined because it has an irreplaceable advantage over humans. First, high efficiency. A robot can not only work all day, but also has lower cost. This is something that humans who need to rest every day and require a new one can't do. Second, it can do things that humans can't do, such as work in dangerous or extreme environments. So from a commercial perspective, human robots are destined to replace most human labor. And from the needs of human beings themselves, it is also true. In the theory of the needs of Maslow, human needs are divided into three levels. The basic aspects of holding on to safety, the pursuit of respect and recognition, and the ultimate self-fulfillment. The need to keep going up is a huge trend that has never changed in human history. And robots can satisfy the basic needs of food safety. Then humans can spend more time pursuing higher-level goals, such as learning, creation, or even changing the world. If you look at it from a long-term perspective, this more ancient human pursuit is a confirmation of the growth of robot needs. But these long-term trends are not enough After all, an industry that will erupt in 10 years There is no investment value for now In fact, the human-type robot industry There are also clear movements in the short term To promote its eruption According to the US dollar report Between 2025 and 2035 The global human-type robot shipment Will increase from 180,000 to 10 million The rate of growth is up to 88% The investment model predicts that in 2030, the size of the American human-type robot market will reach $4 billion, and China will reach $1.2 billion. The reason why the investment is expected to see a clear growth in the robot industry in the next five to ten years is not a single breakthrough by a certain company, but the result of the joint action of industrial technology and social structure in the global area. And this also makes the explosion of human-type robots a inevitable trend. This is the first improvement of the cost structure The past human-type machines are difficult to land A key obstacle is the price Especially core parts Such as high-precision electric motors, decelerators, controlled sensors, etc. Not only is the price expensive, but also the technical cost is high And the assembly and assembly process is also extremely complicated So it is destined to stay in the experimental stage But this situation is now fundamentally changing 下2005年波士顿动力的机器高单价需要200万美元但到了2024年中国语术科技的人形机器人的单价就只需要4万美元了而且这个趋势还在延续根据口气发布的机器人产业报告到2026到2027年人性机器人的年使用成本将低于人类的平均薪酬一旦成本交叉出现对全球劳动力市场的重构竟会是颠覆性的 This is like the outbreak of AI back then, there are also a large number of reasons to be able to reduce the cost of computing, the logic is exactly the same. Second, the technological progress has also unlocked the limits of human-type robots' abilities, especially in the field of key areas such as motion control, visual perception, AI computing, and model-based capabilities. In the past five years, we have made a breakthrough in the cross-border world, and the most important of them is the progress in the model. The emergence of the ChetGBT, DeepSic and VLA models greatly promotes the development of the robot's brain, so that the robot has the ability to understand and respond. Third, continuous expansion of application scenarios Since 2023, more and more companies have launched their new robot products to solve real business problems, such as warehouse transportation, factory logistics, distribution and inspection, etc. In addition to these old scenes, robots have also begun to enter more new fields, such as education, nursing, commercial services, etc. In the future, it may even enter the lives of thousands of people. The machines without commercial scenes can only be experimental products. And now, with the expansion of the actual application scenes, machines with commercial value are likely to explode. 最后一点是人口结构的变化在中美等主要经济体中人口老龄化却是非常的明显年轻劳动力越来越紧缺这已经对制造业服务业等多个领域造成了压力在这样的现实背景下机械劳动力就成为了重要的替代方案它不仅是为了降本增效更是为了解决没有年轻劳动力的这个结构性问题 So you see, the humanoid robot industry is no longer a 听到这,你是不是觉得应该立马要开始布局人性机器人了呢?别急,作为投资者,我们不仅得知道行业的上限还必须要了解行业的问题,才能够真正把握住机会事实上,该行业现在仍存在一些瓶颈,有待突破 The entire industrial chain of humanoid robots can be divided into three parts, top, middle and bottom. The top is the supplier of core parts and software systems, such as electronic sensors and hardware, and software components such as operating systems and large models. These constitute the body and brain of humanoid robots. The middle oil is the whole machine manufacturer, responsible for integrating the top part of the oil into a complete robot product. The lower oil is different application scenarios and users, such as factories, commercial service departments, etc. At this stage, the upper and lower oil parts all have their own tranquility. For example, the lower oil application scenarios have privacy, ethics, etc. challenges. There are also cost problems in the production of medium-sized machines But for our investment These are not the most important At this stage, the most important bottleneck in the humanoid robot industry It's the brain and body of the upper body Let's talk about the brain first This is the core part of the humanoid robot A real intelligent robot can never perform tasks with the pre-set program, but with the ability to learn and judge by oneself. To achieve this, the most critical technology is the visual language model of robots. Robots are not like humans who have decades of life experience and cannot experience the world by body. The most important way for them to learn is to rely on vision, which is to rely on seeing. The visual language model is to allow robots to have the ability to see. Of course, this is a broad view. The robot will first collect images, sounds and various information through the sensor, then use the brain to quickly process and understand the current environment and task requirements to make decisions. Finally, these decisions are converted into specific control instructions and transmitted to the robot's motor and controller to complete the corresponding action. It doesn't sound complicated, but in actual training, the difficulty is far higher than you think. In the 1980s, the robot expert Hans Morawick said, "It's a difficult thing for humans, such as mathematics and programming, and robots are very good at it. But those humans who are born with it and think it's a simple thing, such as walking, grabbing things, and reacting to things, are the most difficult things for robots." Meta's chief AI scientist Ian Leckong mentioned at the GTC conference in 2025 that a child can absorb 2MB of data per second. When he was 4, he handled 300 million tokens, almost the same as the data size of the Internet database used by AI model training today. And this is the direct source of this. It can be seen that it takes a lot of data to get this kind of intuition. However, the problem is that it is too difficult for current machine training to get such a large-scale data. We can use autonomous driving as a model. Autonomous driving is also realized by visual language model. This is the most likely to land in the smart application scene. However, this scene is too simple for human-type machines. Why do you say that? In fact, the driving task is just to see the traffic lights and other scenes. Even if you count the corners, the scenes on the road are very limited. And human robots are different, they want to make them act like humans, move objects, identify emotions, and even talk to people. You have to complete these tasks in different scenarios. The amount of data needed is sky-high. And not only is the amount large, but the quality of the requirements is also very high. The data that robots learn must come from real human operation It can't be done by preset programs, but it has to be seen first how humans operate Then do actual imitations For example, if you want to let a robot pick up a shoe And can pick up this shoe naturally on the floor, stairs, and lower slope Then we need to provide a lot of high-quality human action data for training From walking to next to the shoes, bending the waist, grabbing, and then getting up Every step requires accurate records It's not easy to get such data So how do you get all this data now? There are currently two more effective ways One is action capture technology Attach a reflector or a telephoto sensor to the core of the human body Then capture the human's movement trajectory through a camera or a sensor The other is VR remote operation technology Operators wear VR helmets and gloves Control the robot in a remote way At the same time, they synchronize their movements to the robot These data can also be turned into learning materials for robots It is not easy to get high-quality data in any way And we need data of this level in the daytime The difficulty is even more obvious The WalkerX robot that you must choose to train a simple home scene, has obtained more than 100,000 hours of real-life education data. The chairman of the small Peng also said that the data needs of human-type robots are more than 10 times that of automatic driving. There is no other way to train the visual model of human-type robots. You can only study one scene at a time. And the different scenarios are actually very different from the requirements for the amount of data For example, to grab a fixed shape, you may only need 1-2 thousand data To do a medium-level complex action, for example, the restaurant may have to prepare 50,000 data for serving And complex tasks like assembling and sorting may need more than 100,000 data to train the effect But the problem is that the amount of training data for machines is far, far less. Do you know how much data it takes to train a large-scale model like Chai GPT? There are now 150 million tokens in the literature and the image has a 6 billion set of pictures. And the video model also accumulated 2.6 billion audio and video data. How much video data does the humanoid robot have? The data of the current data is only 2.4 million scenes, which is very different. And the data is exactly the key to the humanoid robot's intelligence breakthrough. So you see, whether it's the complexity of the AM model or the amount of data needed for training, the humanoid robot's brain is still very calm and has a breakthrough. After talking about the limitations of the brain, let's take a look at the technical bottleneck of the human body. First of all, the freedom of the machine is far from enough. Freedom means the number of directions or ways in which a mechanical system can move independently. For example, every joint of a person's finger can be bent or extended, and each such action is a freedom. There are about 27 freedoms in a person's hand. And now the most flexible robot hand in the market, Tesla's Optimus Gen 3, only has 22 freedoms. And most robots are currently between 10 and 20. Don't underestimate the gap between freedom and the human being First, it will cause the robot to have many actions that it cannot complete Second, low freedom will also make the robot's control ability deteriorate Because it is difficult to accurately imitate the human action Like the problem of controlling power and angle of view are easy to make mistakes So can you say that you can solve it by adding a few more joints? It's not that simple There are complex mechanical designs behind this There are also materials learning and various technologies such as algorithmic control To increase freedom, it still needs to be more technical breakthroughs to be able to complete The second point is the battery life. Now most human-type robots have a battery life of only two hours. This battery life is almost impossible to achieve commercial value. The application scenario will also be very limited. If you want to make the machine last longer, either the machine saves electricity, such as designing a lighter machine, or increase the density of the battery, such as using a solid battery. But the problem is that the solid battery costs too much, and the technology is not mature, it is difficult to commercialize in a short period of time. So you see, in the upper industry chain, whether it is the brain of the machine or the body, there are still a lot of fundamental tranquility waiting to be broken through. For us investors, having a technical tranquility is actually a good thing. Because if the tranquility is broken through, then the strongest wave of growth is usually over. Instead, we can ambush those sexy investment opportunities in tranquility. Whoever breaks through the tranquility first, who is most likely to get a subversive investment return. Now we understand the technical bottleneck, which means we have the direction to look for investment opportunities. As for this part, we will talk about it later. Speaking of which, you will find that although human-based robots are destined to explode, and there is enough powerful energy to promote this explosion in a short period of time, but at the same time, the bottleneck of technology is also restricting the development of this industry. So for us investors, how should we look at opportunities in the industry? The key to answering this question is in commercialization. When it comes to humanoid robots, I believe many people will think of the application scenes of doing household chores and taking care of the elderly. However, in fact, these scenes are the most complicated application scenes, which are almost impossible to achieve in a short period of time. Although technology has a bottleneck, the difficulty of solving the bottleneck will also change with the different application scenarios. So as an investor, you need to know what the commercial path of human-based robots is like. Where will it start to break through first? Where is the easiest opportunity to invest? We still take the auto driving as an example. Auto driving technology did not land on the road from the beginning. It was first developed in the experimental lab, and then landed in some closed areas. From 2015, auto drivers gradually entered some semi-closed environment test operations, such as some high-speed And for humanoid robots, it is the same. Its commercialization path also follows a similar pattern. At first, it must be explored in the lab, then into some simple, standardized application scenes, and it may also require some human cooperation. After the intelligence level is further improved, we will move to those common scenes to complete more various tasks independently. So what is the commercialization of modern humanoid robots? Let's look for the answer from the current situation of the two largest humanoid robot markets in China and the United States The development of the US humanoid robot industry was early In early 2013, Boston Power launched its first generation of humanoid robots Now most of the US manufacturers have crossed the stage of the lab They are working closely with some manufacturing customers The cooperation between FIGURE AI and BOMA, Bosch and DOLI have officially landed. Their machines have begun to solve the problem of actual commercial use. Tesla is also planning to deploy thousands of Optimus machines to assist its car manufacturing in its own factory at the end of 2025. Although the development of Chinese machines began to slow down, they were faster in commercialization. They chose to move from universities, research institutions and manufacturing factories to push the product to the market first, and then accelerate the development of the product in actual situations. For example, Tongji University, Tsinghua University, Chongqing University, and Huanan Li Gong have purchased machines for research and student training. In addition, the machines chosen by UB have also entered the factories of big companies such as Biadi and began to participate in actual manufacturing tasks. You will find that Chinese and American machine manufacturers have almost chosen manufacturing, especially car manufacturing, as a commercialization point. Why? Because this scene is mature, clear demand, and requires a lower level of machine operation. Very suitable for early machine commercialization. In general, a production car has to go through four steps Charging, welding, spraying, and fitting The first three steps have basically been replaced by machines Almost no one works But when it comes to fitting, there are more people Work is more complicated This is a part that traditional automated machines cannot do And it is the main point of humanoid robots now And there are many similar parts in the entire manufacturing industry. Currently, the automation rate of the global manufacturing industry is only about 20%, and there are a lot of jobs that rely on labor. And this will become the best application soil for human-based robot commercialization. According to the estimate of China Central Securities, in 2028, the global manufacturing industry will have more than 100,000 robots. By 2030, the global demand for the year will exceed 500,000 units And by 2035, the price of the robot will drop to 130,000 US dollars The annual supply will reach 3 million units The entire market will reach 4 billion US dollars After the development of the human-based robot industry has made some progress The second step will be to start commercialization of service industry This stage is more demanding for language and visual models, because it must learn to interact with humans. For example, in the medical field, it can detect whether the elderly have fallen, remind them to take medicine, or even accompany them emotionally. In the educational scene, it can be a tutor to accompany the children to study. In places such as convenience stores, supermarkets, and fitness centers, it can be responsible for collecting money, stocking up, and simple services. In these scenarios, humans and robots will work separately. Humans will handle the task of the emergency or the more flexible task, and the robot will complete the restructuring and repetitive work. According to the central government's calculation, by 2035, the scale of human robots in the global service industry will reach 30 billion US dollars. The final stage of commercialization is the real entry into the broad family. It has the highest requirements for the brain and body of a robot. But in the long run, this day will definitely come. By then, you can expect it to complete most of the household chores, such as cooking, cleaning, taking care of the elderly and children, and even becoming a family steward. It has a closer relationship with humans. According to Musk's prediction, the number of robots will exceed human in 2040 In other words, everyone can have their own robot assistant Of course, the time point is not important This vision will definitely come true So you see, human-based robot commercialization It won't be done in one go As the capacity of the robot increases, the cost decreases It will gradually change our work and lifestyle From lab to factory to service industry Now we know the commercialization of the human-type robot industry. You will find that the current situation of the human-type robot industry is actually very similar to the previous night of the explosion of new energy cars. In the early days, the new energy car was basically the only one in Tesla's lonely laboratory. By the end of 2019, Tesla's technology had made breakthroughs and production capacity had been improved. So sales went up all the way and gained momentum for the first time in the first three seasons of 2019. After the initial verification of commercialization, a variety of electric car brands in China and the United States had a detailed interview. Traditional cars have also entered the game. A year later, the entire electric car industry was really in a real explosion. The opposite of the humanoid robot industry, in 2013, Boston Power had the appearance of a humanoid robot. But until 2022, Tesla released Optimus robots, which allowed the concept of humanoid robots to really enter the public eye. Now, humanoid robots have basically crossed the stage of the laboratory, and are beginning to enter the initial commercialized market. We have also seen the introduction of FIGURE AI, support machines and other Many products really entered the factory and began to work. The development path of the electric car, the human-type robot industry is now in the key point of the small players' entry and exit, gradually falling into the ground of products, from zero to one breakthrough. I'm not sure when the industry can really come to a change, but I believe this node should be not far away. And once it happens, it will bring a subversive investment opportunity. And now, maybe it's time for us to start paying attention to this industry. Here, the analysis of the entire humanoid robot industry is all finished with you. I believe that there must be some viewers who are still not familiar with the industry. We know that there is no good investment opportunity in the industry. There is no time to introduce this part of the content. The next episode of Humanoid Machines will be a "many words" interpretation. Basically, it shows all the investment opportunities in the industry and makes a deep interpretation of the key points. I put this part in the Mito Pro, it is now online, you can click the link in the comment section to take a look We all don't have to be difficult, Mito Pro users can use it for free the day before Want to see the next issue, don't have any pressure Also welcome everyone to experience all other services for free I don't mind having a wool, welcome everyone to try it, thank you all If you like Mito's video, don't forget to like, follow and forward, thank you all