各位好累啊制作本期視頻彷彿讓我又回到了我的大學和研究生年代為了了解泡泡馬特這個以盲盒以及獨家設計的潮流玩具火遍全球的中國企業我通宵了兩個晚上閱讀了十幾篇論文試圖了解泡泡馬特大夥背後的商業邏輯消費心理和上癮機制 這些論文來自各個學科領域包括經濟學心理學社會學和金融工程當然我還搞來了這六百多頁的泡泡馬克自己的招股說明書 看完了這些,再加上我自己的分析我終於歸納出了泡泡馬特成功的秘訣這真的只是因為他是一個合法的賭博嗎?今天看完這個視頻勞州起碼幫你節省了50個小時的閱讀時間下次你們公司女同事們又聚在一起性高采烈的聊著某某大明星包包上的喇叭舞時你就可以一本正經的跟他們吹水這背後的底層邏輯了 Oh, right, I will also go into more detail in the next video I personally went to POPOMART to buy the first blind box in my life VLOG video, don't miss it First of all, how popular is POPOMART? Now it's not just in China In Europe, America, Japan, Korea, POPOMART's blind boxes are being lined up and blocked Especially the Laboub series dolls that recently introduced Pop-up Mart Causing many places to turn Pop-up Mart vending machines into Douou現場 Pop-up Mart was established in 2010 Mainly selling trendy toys in the form of blind boxes Everyone should know the blind box It means that you don't know what you will buy before opening the package You only know that you will get one of the series dolls at random Each series usually involves a specific theme or aesthetic style The characters are divided by their costumes, expressions or accessories In April 2016, POPOMART signed an agreement with Hong Kong artist Wang Hsin-ming to acquire the exclusive right to design the Molly cartoon character Molly is a girl with a big mouth and big blue eyes It was Molly that made POPOMART famous In August 2016, POPOMART released the first Molly Zodiac manga series The day the Tien Mao flagship store was launched 200 pre-sale products were all sold out in 4 seconds From 2017 to 2019, Pop-up's annual income increased from 1.58 billion to 16.83 billion. It has been almost 11 times in two years. It's amazing. Pop-up's profit margin is 64.8%. It's very profitable. On December 11, 2020, POPO MAT was listed in the Hong Kong Exchange It immediately went up in price and went up in price at the beginning of the year Last year, POPO MAT was hit by a big explosion again The silver sales went up to 13 billion RMB The most striking thing is that POPO MAT's silver sales went up by 375% overseas It went up to 50.7 billion RMB Even though it is under the shadow of global economic slowdown and trade war Pop-up mart has doubled in stock price in the past 18 months Now Pop-up mart's market value is more than the world toy giant company with more than 80 years of history in the United States That is, the underlying brand has Transformer, Star Wars, Dafuon, Pele's children's treasure And the underlying brand has Barbie dolls, Snow White, Thomas train, and Meitai The market value of POPO MAT is double the total market value of both of them And in the past year or so, POPO MAT was pushed to another peak again It is a cartoon IP image called Laboub Laboub is a ghost image created by Hong Kong designer Long Jiasheng In fact, Pop-up Mart started selling the Lappubu series in 2019 But it suddenly went viral recently because last year, the member of Korean super girl group BLACKPINK, Lisa, was photographed and carried a Lappubu toy with her After that, many celebrities also joined the Lappubu trend including Kadeishan, Leihana, Hilary Duff, Dua Lipa, etc. So there was a scene where the video was so popular at the beginning and even the scene of fighting at the scene The current situation is that Laboub is hard to find You can't buy it even if you have money A plastic doll of 20 to 50 dollars overseas Has been fired hundreds or even thousands of dollars In China, it was fired more crazily by the bull At the end of April, Laboub 3.0 series officially launched offline sales The next day, you can find the so-called brand new line goods in the second-level market The original 599 yuan joint was fired to more than 30,000 RMB Last week, at the 2025 Spring Festival auction, a Laboubou, the only one in the world, was auctioned off with a price of 1.08 million yuan. Okay, here comes the question. What is the magic behind the bubble mart and their blind boxes? Why are there so many plastic little objects that look ugly and weird to us, but can seal the world? Today, I will tell you the background logic behind this. The reason why Pop-up Mart is so popular is explained in the simplest way Because opening blind boxes is like gambling The uncertainty will bring people an exclamation point There is indeed this factor So I will focus on the connection between blind boxes and gambling Psychological influence of the上癮 And their impact on children and teenagers But if only for this reason To explain the success of Pop-up Mart and blind boxes I'm afraid it's too simple and rough The reason is simple The mysterious toy business model like the blind box has existed for a long time The Japanese egg is the ancestor of the blind box You put it in a egg machine Turn a switch and a egg drops out You only know the possibilities But the toy you get is random Isn't this the same principle as the blind box? And the egg was already in the 60s Other than the egg, there are many other things such as Kinder Surprise Eggs You will get a random toy while buying chocolate In the breakfast stock of the 40s, random toys will also be added Of course, there is also McDonald's Happy Meal Happy Paradise It is full of mystery and fun 所以,現在到底發生了什麼改變?為什麼盲盒行業現在會突然發生爆炸性的增長呢?我們可以分成三個部分來探討先說好消息,再說壞消息首先,盲盒為一些特定群體提供了情緒價值已經滿足了人類需要抱團的社會屬性 Although the blind box toys have various styles But those who will buy blind boxes are usually a kind of people It's when you pass through such a bed, you will make a sound According to the research done by Mao Bo technology The main purchasing group of blind boxes is women living in first-line or first-line cities between 18 and 34 years old Which is the so-called Z generation Paul Mat's book of history says that 63% of their customers have more than the current stock market. Paul Mat's famous IP images are just right for the Z generation to pursue their own unique self-sensibility in the social market and to show their unique personality. The New York Times called Laboub the "social currency of the Z generation". For example, Laboub's unique image design and Molly's blank face年轻人会觉得 The more strange you think, the more we like it You don't understand I think this also includes a kind of psychology of young people's resistance to power You are the teachers, principals, bosses and leaders who suppress us This is a world that only we know These toys have formed their own cultural layer Netizens will discuss online what new blind boxes have been released They will also hold offline meetings to show their collections Or the repeated dolls exchanged for each other The fire of Pop-up Mart also got the strong help of social media TikTok and Instagram have the so-called unboxing challenge Consumers share the unboxing process and creative combination themselves I think this has played a huge role in promoting the POPO MATE IP Watching other people open the blind box and share surprises and laughter with friends and have fun will make people feel like buying one of them can also get the same happiness Experience excitement and excitement In other words These trendy toys at the same time satisfy the self-acceptance and collective sense of belonging of young people The second advantage of the blind box is that the demand is optimized. The price of the Pop-up Mart blind box is about 70 to 200 yuan. If it is a joint or more popular IP, it will cost 500, 700 or even more than 1000 yuan. This price range is not too expensive for the city of Bai Ling, but it is not too cheap at the same time. If it is not too expensive, people can buy it as a small asset to reward themselves, and there will be no sense of guilt. From another perspective, it is important that it is not particularly cheap because it means that it is not a child's toy Young people will think that it is valuable and worth collecting And for those who have higher income They can also buy a limited edition of thousands or even tens of thousands of dollars In its circle, it may already be a proud social capital 好了,講完好消息,那麼現在我們來講講壞消息這時我們就要來談到第三個課題,也是最複雜的一個課題現在很多自媒體都將盲盒的火爆歸咎於它的賭博性質我也同意這一點,但我覺得絕大部分的媒體都沒有講到本質因為這並不是一個簡單的問題 You say that the blind box is gambling Someone can refute you How can the blind box be gambling? You have a chance to lose money in gambling You don't lose anything in the blind box You will get a prize anyway It's just maybe not the style you want most This is the fundamental nature of not understanding gambling Why does society regulate gambling? It's not because gambling itself but because gambling will be addicted If I go to Las Vegas or Macau today I went to the casino to gamble a few times In addition, I don't gamble all year round Then no one will think this is a problem So the problem is never gambling itself but being addicted So will the blind box make people addicted? There is a saying in psychology called "Increasingly strengthen the system" This means that if there is a kind of behavior Sometimes it will bring us rewards Sometimes it won't Then our brain's chemical reaction Will like this unpredictable If we get a reward The brain will release a wave of dopamine Make us feel very happy If we don't get a reward The brain will drive us to continue to pursue That unpredictable reward Until it is rewarded again Especially when we fail many times in a row We will have a kind of illusion That is, next time we should win the prize This kind of cognitive bias is called gambling Gambling policy So when this reward is linked to money, then this indirect strengthening mechanism can be considered a gamble. At least in some countries, such as the UK and the Netherlands, this is the definition of gambling. So from the technical point of view, the blind box is indeed a gamble. In economics, the definition of "up-and-down" is if you do something today, it will make you want to do it more in the future. In terms of consumption, it means that you have consumed a certain product today, which will increase your possibility of continuing to consume in the future. From this point of view, blind boxes are also suitable for some groups. Pop-up Mart pointed out in their own book of stock-in-stocks, 70% of their customers are willing to buy more than 3 blind boxes in order to get a specific style. According to the stock market, 45% of the POPO MOT customers spend more than 500 RMB per year to buy their MANG He. In 2019, 20% of POPO MOT customers spend more than 5 times in their stores. So, if the MANG He does have the characteristics of gambling and making people addicted, then society needs to discuss the issue of government supervision. At present, there is no additional legal supervision of MANG He. Although the main population of the blind box is 18 to 34 years old But now there are more and more young trends Many children and teenagers are very fond of blind boxes and these trendy toys Have you ever been to the blind box? Yes For the blind box, 12-year-old girl spent more than 10,000 yuan in three days 你買回去買家買屋子都溫的濕就為了找這一般你昨天才給你買的菜快吧家裡老公老婆就感覺有點像賭博那種遊戲想要你上癮了我覺得不到六百五但是他還沒出什麼危險性這是一個令人擔憂的現象因為我看到的多篇研究賭博和賭徒心理學的論文都指出年紀輕的時候就接觸類似賭博的行為會增加未來成癮的可能性 更可怕的是,當我們說成癮風險的時候,並不只是賭博其他成癮類行為,比如吸毒、酗酒等等的風險也會跟這提高因為所有成癮類行為的原理是一樣的那就是對間歇性獎賞的高度敏感 我们都知道青少年的大脑还在发育尤其是前额液皮层这是负责控制冲动和评估风险的大脑部分这就是为什么青少年比成年人更容易不考虑长期后果的去做出高风险的行为 因此在大腦發育階段就接觸賭博或類似賭博的行為會強化多巴胺獎賞同路讓大腦對賭博所帶來的相關刺激更加敏感從而為日後形成的上癮打下了神經基礎 Of course, I believe that Pop-up Mart and many other companies will not be willing to admit this. Because the blind box is a very new thing. Currently, there is no real systematic experiment or research report to calculate the long-term impact of the blind box on children and teenagers. But we can still make a prediction Because scientists have already studied another thing that has existed for a long time Something very close to the blind box As long as you have played the game, you should know This thing is a "Statue Box" or "Device Box" In English, it is called "Loot Boxes" The The core characteristics of the Stamina Box is the randomness and uncertainty of value. You and your friends spent 100 yuan to buy a box of equipment, but the equipment value you get when you open it can be very different. So the Stamina Box in the game is actually an electronic blind box. The balance of power has long attracted the attention of many countries in the world And set up relevant laws Because its mechanism is too close to gambling Since 2018 Holland and Belgium have put some specific types of balance of power Directly judged as gambling and strictly prohibited In 2016, the Chinese government asked the box in the game to clearly write the probability of winning a prize. It is also required to set the age limit for the daily and monthly consumption on these boxes. Australia believes that the "Statue of the Tendency" box is similar to gambling on psychological mechanisms. From September 2024, any game with a probability of winning or opening a box will be judged as "M-level", which means that it can only be played in the age of 15 or above. In 2023, Audi歐盟很多國家也正在研究制定相關的法律 So, these countries are in charge of the strategic balance It's not because they are "hit the head" It's because of the authority and reliable research report Prove the danger of these electronic blind boxes I read carefully one of the related papers This was published by a Canadian scholar from Columbia University, UBC The title is Future gamblers A heavy-duty study on young people's transfer from open boxes to gambling This study was conducted by 18-26 year old players who were in the 6th place for 6 months The participants were initially classified as "the gambler" and "the non-gambling" The researchers returned to the game after 6 months The main findings of the study are 1. The behavior of buying a blind box can help predict the gambling behavior in the future The statistics found that those who originally did not gamble but spent more money on the blind box in the game The probability of gambling began to increase after 6 months 11.3% of people started gambling after 6 months Second, those who purchase specific equipment or props directly, i.e. those who don't purchase equipment through random blind boxes, the research found that it is not effective to predict their future gambling behavior. In other words, the problem is not about the behavior of the consumer in the game, but whether the reward mechanism is random. Third, researchers are also trying to understand whether gambling is more likely to be spent on blind boxes. They found that before this research began, they never spent on blind boxes in the game. But people with a gambling mindset, such as believing in Lian Sheng's luck, etc., these people are more likely to try to spend on blind boxes in their research. 第四,那些原本就比較經常參與賭博的被調研者,在遊戲中對盲盒的花費與投入也顯著更高。賭徒平均在遊戲盲盒上消費33.5美元,非賭徒只消費13.4美元。賭徒比非賭徒在盲盒上多消費了2.5倍。 This study has proved that the blind box consumption in the game will cause young people to move to the cause and effect of real money gambling. Researchers believe that the problem lies in the random nature of the blind box, which makes these boxes very close to gambling, and not just general game consumption. Of course, this study has its limitations, such as the investigation time is only six months, and it cannot make a conclusion to the long-term impact. 好了,那麼現在我想提出的問題是泡泡馬特的盲盒跟虛擬遊戲裡的盲盒有什麼區別呢?既然多國政府設置了法律來限制電子盲盒為什麼卻不監管實體盲盒呢?你可以說我只是喜歡這些潮流玩具那麼遊戲玩家也可以說我只是喜歡這些裝備和皮膚 This reason is not clear Because you like to buy a trend toy You can buy a trend toy directly I like which style, I will buy it In the game, you like which equipment, you will buy it So the problem is not in the thing itself But in the fact that these things are packed into a random product drive the desire in our brain for indirect rewards And because of the randomness, when we can't buy what we want, we will keep buying In the end, maybe it's not for that kind of thing But for the sense of excitement that is not sure And when this sense of excitement is packed into the pursuit of young people's personal goods It's the kind of thing that you old people and old people can't understand This kind of product is actually legal gambling for children and teenagers就被賦予了正當性 To be honest, this thing has been taken away And the big reason is that celebrities like it too And you say these IPs are showing their personalities I personally think it's quite ironic So I think if we really want to know more about these The impact of the "murderers" on people Pop-up mart or regulatory institutions should conduct a statistics 那就是在盲盒總銷售額當中統計有多少比例是來自那些出現成癮跡象的消費者比如說我們要看看有沒有類似說泡泡馬特消費最多的前10%的用戶消費總額相當於後面90%用戶的總和假如說有類似這樣的數據那麼我們面對的就不僅僅是一個商業模式也許還是一個社會問題 I don't think I'm trying to deny the whole thing. I think the mystery box is so attractive, except for the similar temperament with gambling. The mystery box provides a kind of emotion, I call it a micro-signature holiday experience. It's like Christmas or birthday. We all know that the process of unboxing gifts is a kind of fun This kind of fun is not just because of the gift itself And the blind box is just copied that kind of I don't know what's inside the expectation and surprise This is why there are so many packages of blind boxes Because the merchant wants to turn the unboxing box itself into an experience Just like the feeling of opening a gift on Christmas morning when I was a kid  我现在在去泡泡马特的路上我们现在要去找泡泡马特我也不知道在哪里喂 你要去哪个吗去那个OK嘿哦 那个啊 Oh yeah! Okay, so we finally arrived at the Pompomart in Zhangyi Airport Let's go in and have a look Wow, so many people I looked around and they were all so small I decided to buy this one Zootopia What is it called? Animal Zoo? OK, let's take a look Actually, there are many things in this I really don't want This sheep, I don't want This little mouse selling ice sticks, I don't want I don't want the one behind the fake elephant And this bad guy sitting here 嬰儿车里面的我也不要希望我如果有这个这个是我最想要的吃这个甜甜圈的爆米还有这只牛其他女主角也可以OK 我们现在来选了听说咬可以吃到是吧比如说这个是胖子它应该比较重对不对选一个吧其实概率都是一样的不管了 OK 付钱啦我总共买三个我买一个我女儿买一个还有摄影师也要买一个摄影师本来说不买的看着看着说要买三个盲盒总共是六三个四百块钱吧人民币成功了我们现在去找一个地方开盒 找了一個地方開盲盒這應該是我人質中第一個盲盒講真的我好像沒有什麼感覺因為我沒有特別想要我沒有特別想要哪一個所以感覺我也沒有很激動感覺一下吧不管 亂猜裡面還有別的東西這什麼哦 配件 没有一个标志 干着急突然间有点紧张了突然间有点紧张了Oh yes 女主角 I'm still a little happy because I didn't get the few I hate Not bad, not bad, I found myself quite happy I'm done, I'm done, I'm really happy 那我想這個盲盒真的有它的一個特殊之處吧因為你真的不知道你買到什麼然後我覺得最有意思的就是說裡面真的我很不想拿到的東西剛才其實有一個La Bouboo盒One Piece的系列啊我覺得現在La Bouboo很火本來我想買那個可是我對La Bouboo真的一點感覺都沒有但是我對這個Zootopia很有感覺我看過很多次了 陪我女兒OK 好 我的人生第一個盲盒 成功 As a middle aged man, I am not a customer group of POPOMART But this experience, I think MANGO provides a very special emotional value That is, MANGO is actually like a gift for yourself When your friends or family give you a gift They probably know your preferences So what they give you is not bad But you still don't know what they will give you So it's like the blind box I choose something, I know what it is But I can get the expectation of the location that I can get when I open the gift I saw an overseas mother on the Internet She commented on the blind box He said that sometimes when his economy is not so good and it happens to be the festival to give a child a gift The blind box has become a good choice Because it can not only be a small gift that is not expensive It can also bring children curiosity, expectation and happy emotional experience But, whether it is what I said, the blind box creates a micro-shape holiday experience, or a gift from a young person, or the expectation from a mother to her child. In fact, all of these are still based on the random probability and uncertainty of the blind box. It is also stimulating our desire for a constructive reward. Then you say, isn't this also gambling? My conclusion is that Just like most of the things in the world There is a "Count" To what extent can it be accepted To what extent must it be restricted And in my opinion The purpose of proper supervision In fact, it is precisely to protect this industry At the same time as not harming society Can get better development And as a society What we need is to decide where to draw that line 好 那我今天就讲到这里我是老周订阅我的频道保证不是在开盲盒每一个视频点开都是经典马上行动起来吧 你只要拿到這個,就像這樣,就這樣打開當你拿到這個,它會告訴你你拿到什麼就這樣自己告訴我我拿到什麼了都不用打開這個我不知道 我女兒知道這下真的是鄉下人進城了