(Music) Recently, there are three common theories on the Internet. They are called the three major structural theories of today's society. Or the first common theory in the field of Chinese social science. These three theories have caused a wide discussion Of course, it also led to some controversy But whether you agree with these theories These three theories proposed by Internet celebrities Not the academic world Can cause such a big reflection It can be confirmed that They did cause a large part of the people's resonance 而這三大理論的其中兩個已經被中國政府封殺剩下的一個看起來也岌岌可危提出者最近已經開始在荒芒疊假和找補了這三個理論分別是胡晨峰提出的安卓蘋果論好兄弟戴孟提出的立功說哈論以及風哥王命天涯提出的信牙議論 Now the question is These theories have nothing to do with politics One is to incite revolution Two is to criticize the government Why does the CCP want to block them? They say it's a theory In fact, they are just proposed by netizens The structure is loose It's not really a statement that supports the theory of strict academic theory It's just a joke with entertainment What is the CCP afraid of? Today we will go into this topic As usual, in order to take care of the audience outside the wall I will explain these three theories very quickly First, I will tell you what these three theories are saying Not saying I agree or disagree with these theories 首先 护成峰的安卓苹果论最容易理解他把所有的东西简单粗暴的分为安卓或苹果苹果代表高端和优质安卓则代表低端和劣质富人享受着苹果人生但一些底层却住着安卓房子或者安卓生活有着安卓认知你是典型的安卓逻辑安卓人安卓学历安卓素质安卓语法安卓态度这是学校安卓学校 安子波龐斯 安子波龐斯安子波龐斯好了 那什麼是立功說哈論呢?這裡我們要分兩塊來講一個是立功思維另一個是說哈所謂立功可以理解為體力勞動者立功思維是指以高強度勞動換取生存資源將結婚生子視為人生終極目標的一種觀念 The idea of "divorce" is not to discriminate against men, but to criticize the traditional mentality of men who are influenced by the "poor culture" The theorists believe that many men in China have too strong obsession with marriage, marriage and children For this obsession, they are used to living a life of suffering and oppression and they train themselves as a money-making machine The only purpose of their money is to find a woman who is willing to give up her mother to complete their happiness They can do everything for this obsession But because of their own limitations it is not easy to meet such a woman When they finally meet one they will often spend their time on this woman which is the so-called Suoha "Soha" is a kind of poker gambling meaning that you can bet all your bets on it So, for the sake of marriage and childbirth the workers put all their effort into it It's called "Soha" But this kind of full pressure marriage hides a huge risk The male workers lack common sense such as gender equality and they simplify their intimate relationship into economic exchange 我很努力的賺錢養家回到家你就應該要把拖鞋放好三菜一湯給我做好把孩子帶好他們渴望的伴侶是可控的依附的而不是平等獨立的再加上他們自身缺乏情感溝通和性魅力關係一旦失衡就容易走向破裂其失敗的根本原因是一種傳統思維和時代的衝突 Because the company is still in the logic of the buy-off relationship And modern society's women have long stopped accepting this kind of trading-like intimate relationship So the probability of failure is relatively high after saying it My own feeling is Li Gongsuo's argument was to describe the anxiety and difficulties of Chinese men in intimate relationships. But now, due to the conflict between traditional culture and modern society due to the division of ethics, the confrontation between men and women is very serious. So I feel that some people in the group of Li Gongsuo's argument seem to have a certain feeling of "wicked woman". I will discuss the current problems of Chinese society in detail when I discuss the CCP's why it blocked the three major theories Now let's continue to talk about the last one of the three major theories The "Blood-Dust Debate" This is the only one that has not been blocked by the CCP so far The related videos of the "Protection of the People" have basically been removed Gu Chengfeng is more serious All accounts have been consumed by the whole network Now there is only the "Destroy the World" 所以他现在比较紧张最近刻意讲了一些所谓正能量的话来找补就是我目前认为我是没有开创过什么理论的我从来没有开创过什么理论都是其他人给我总结的买国产汽车用小米手机超市就选用晖手机就选安卓 電動車就是微小李比亞迪華為這是我的選擇我一直都是這樣風哥認為中國男性的各種精神困境其實都能追溯到性壓抑這一根源他批評那些動不動就喜歡指責女人 那個什麼哎 我不想講這種侮辱女性的詞啊就是有些男人喜歡說女人其實都不矜持風哥說這是他們想連結而不得所產生的憤怒當有人說中國女人媚外的時候風哥說他們只是把中國女性看成自己的性子緣被外國人拿走了一個他們自己就少了一個機會好像自己戴上了一頂虛擬的綠帽 至于那些在追求女性时表现出油腻完全没有分寸的男性丰哥认为他们要么是经济弱势要么是缺乏经验要么是性魅力缺失或者有着某种心理上的障碍无论如何本质上还是一种性压抑 我們都知道精神分析學的筆主佛洛伊德認為性慾是驅動一切人格與行為背後的核心動力之一所以中國網友們把風歌調侃為佛洛伊德風 This is the so-called "Chinese folk's social science" theory that has been denoted by the netizens Then someone pointed out that "Android Apple theory", "Li Gong Suoha theory" and "Xinyayi theory" seem to be three theories In fact, it is one Because Li Gong is the Androids of Xinyayi If I say that these theories have nothing to do with politics 1. Do not advocate freedom of speech 2. Do not advocate one vote for each person 3. Do not proclaim the democratic system 4. Do not promote the subversion of the regime Then why is the CCP afraid of these theories? I agree with the Chinese netizens on these three theories It seems like the three theories proposed by the three internet celebrities who are not related to each other But in fact, they are talking about the same thing In my opinion, the three theories point to the same root That is the high depression in the Chinese social structure 蘋果安卓論揭示的是階層壓抑指出了貧富差距和階層固化立功思維論揭示的是底層勞動者的心理壓抑小人物在生活的壓榨中失去自我只剩下生存和繁衍後代的動物本性性壓抑論揭示的是現代人在身體與情感上的壓抑 這三個理論的共同點是他們都不是革命性的口號而是社會自發的精神結構是民間的一種自我診斷他們沒有煽動顛覆卻揭開了一個國家最不願意被看見的底層真相那就是中國的經濟奇跡背後隱藏著一整代的安卓人他們既沒有財富自由也沒有身體自由更加沒有思想自由 The fundamental problem of the CCP is that they don't think about why these folk theories will attract so many people's resonance but simply and roughly define them as rumors This is the way the CCP has always been to govern the country I call it the "Tuo-Niao-Zhi-Guo-Fa" For them, the problem is not there as long as they don't discuss it. Including firewall, including the "Chinese economy" theory, they are all the products of the "Bird-and-Bird" law. Oh, the Internet of China pointed out some of China's problems. As long as the people can't see or hear, there is no problem. Oh, the Chinese economy is not good. As long as we keep saying that the Chinese economy is good, and catch all those who are singing about the Chinese economy, then the Chinese economy will be fine. Do you have false information in your criticism of the CCP and the collapse of the Chinese economy? Of course, there is. But the best way to fight against false news is to provide the truth, not to have no news. May I ask the great President Xi, is it because of the existing problems in society that these simple and rough folk theory have a space to survive? Or is it because of the folk theory that society has problems? 就是因為中國社會的結構失衡越來越多人發現他們在現實中捲不動在婚戀中養不起在情感中被閹割所以民間才會用一些自創的理論去試圖解釋這些問題但一個能用諷刺和自嘲去結構現實的社會是一個難以再被簡單洗腦的社會所以中共不願意看到 為了讓大家把中共的敘事邏輯看得更清楚這裡我想引入另一個最近也是剛被封殺的人張雪峰我上期節目剛剛講過張雪峰很多人應該都已經看過了 I criticized Zhang Xuefeng because he was just bragging about the Taiwan-Hai war and eating rice with love But I don't think it's because of him that China's education problem was caused Look at my title I said that Chinese-based education provoked Zhang Xuefeng Not Zhang Xuefeng provoked Chinese-based education It's the environment of Chinese education and the power of power that made Zhang Xuefeng have a market Not Zhang Xuefeng that led to the education power 因此我雖然討厭張雪峰,批判張雪峰但我完全不贊同官媒對他的評價對於張雪峰,官媒南方網是這麼說的五年前張雪峰曾大力推薦土木工程專業稱其就業穩定,前景廣闊而今年他卻對諮詢土木專業的考生冷嘲熱諷這暴露了其功利化建議的短視本質 Education is a long-term investment With a quiet mind, Tie professional and current employment market No doubt in Khezhou I think Zhang Xuefeng five years ago Can't see the bubble of Chinese real estate It's about to break down So he pushed the earth and wood project You can only say He is a person who collects high-end expenses To help others judge the future employment trend No vision Too poor level But China is a low-income country with a monthly income of less than 1,000 yuan The South is the government's snake You open your mouth and let others not consider the profession of children's education Is it tied to the current employment market? Is it too "Hepusi meat" 雖然我在上期節目裡批判了中國教育環境的公立化但我非常理解中國普通老百姓以公立化的視角來看待教育並非是他們的錯而是源自於中國極其不公平的分配制度以及幾乎不存在的社會保障體系 上期節目因為我說有些中國家長又菜又愛管導致有部分觀眾以為我是在將中國的畸形教育環境全都歸咎於家長其實我並沒有這個意思這點也許是我講得不夠清楚在這裡表示歉意 其中有一位觀眾對於中國農村家庭在現有體制下的教育困境在我的視頻底下寫了一段非常深刻的評論我覺得我無論怎麼說都不會有他說的更好因為我無法如他一般的感同身受所以我決定直接讀出來給大家聽一聽 觀眾數寫Man說 我媽就是農村考學上來的她是1971年生人讀的婦產科分配到了城裡的醫院才換成了城市戶口吃上了所謂的商品糧而我媽的經歷正是億萬中國農村家庭孩子為數不多的出路只要你是農村戶口沒有那種經商的資本機遇以及魄力那就幾乎只能靠考學來改變自己那幾乎注定 "The fate of the face to the earth and the back to the sky." I don't think I need to talk more about how hard the lives of Chinese farmers are. The monthly income of the 600 million yuan is less than 1,000 yuan. The group of people with a pension of less than 100 yuan are all Chinese farmers. In those small towns and villages, For example, in Lai Xi, Lin Yi, Ping Du in Shandong The children in those schools wake up at 4 or 5 a.m. in the middle of winter They even have to eat and drink at noon The teacher is always with them The parents are also busy selling iron They also have to send their children to a school like Kijongying To take advantage of the opportunity to change their fate Although the parents of the children in those places are ignorant They know that their life is too hard They don't want their children to repeat their miserable experiences. I saw it with my own eyes. My four grandpas, for that 50 yuan a day, they can't even finish building a house, moving bricks, or even working on their arms. They have to ask others to help them with their phone calls. And just like that, their family can only afford to eat a meal of white cabbage pork dumplings for the New Year. "So Zhou, if you are such a parent, don't you become a palace? Will you consider the independence and development of your child without hesitation?" Behind all the chaos like Zhang Xuefeng, there is actually a lot of blood pressure. In the end, he said, "I cried when I wrote it, because I really saw everything I described." This comment... This comment really touched me. I will answer this audience. What you said is right. If I grow up in this environment, I will also become a palace. 所以,如果我的上一期節目讓很多跟這位觀眾有相似經歷的人覺得我不在意不同情他們的人生,以為我把中國教育的問題都歸咎在他們身上那麼我衷心的表達歉意但事實上我的老觀眾們肯定都清楚我當然同情中國人民的遭遇我也太清楚這一切的罪魁禍首是中共政府 But the CCP now let all the countries be carried by the Internet celebrities It seems that the education anxiety of the Chinese people is not the responsibility of the government Let's continue to see the criticism of the South China Network against Zhang Xuefeng Zhang Xuefeng's education guidance is full of extreme power-based colors The concept of constantly strengthening the sky pit professionalism Will see many schools as a job trap If this kind of side-by-side trend becomes mainstream Will shake the long-term development of the country's talent base 動搖國家根基這帽子可真夠大的這就是我最討厭中共敘事邏輯的一點不管什麼事他們都要上升到國家層面封禁商學封是這個邏輯封禁民間三大理論也是這個邏輯 A net celebrity said a few words and shook the foundation of the country Do you know how fragile the foundation of the country is? Every day, whether it is the long or short of the country seems to be very high-ranged In fact, it is basically every person is a person You worry about the long-term financial structure of the country But the parents face the real-time school fees burden and survival pressure Students face the real-time school and employment pressure They are all solved now. They say that without Zhang Xuefeng, students are studying to build the country's ideal. Do you really think that the CCP's knowledge of changing fate is to change the fate of the country, not to change your own fate? As a government, instead of focusing on the social issues and what the netizens said, why don't you focus on what wrong policies you have made, what problems the people are facing, and how you make the economy into what it is today. One of them is still implementing the "Huji system" A government that divides the whole country into urban and rural households How dare they criticize the "Apple theory" for creating social opposition? How ridiculous is that? 在胡承峰被全網消耗當天官媒浙江宣傳發表了一篇長文批評胡承峰標題是硬扯蘋果人安卓人意欲何為指責胡承峰刻意販賣角力製造對立煽動群體情緒 Or is it a Chinese society full of class contrast? Let Hu Chen Feng's words lead to resonance Or is it that Hu Chen Feng used a few words to create a contrast between Chinese society? In school, students are divided into ordinary classes and key classes In the hospital, the ward is divided into ordinary ward and high-ranking ward On social security, the pensioner is divided into civil servants, corporate employees and new farmers 當然還有剛才說到的地域上戶籍要分成城鎮戶口和農村戶口你知不知道我們天天在說的青年失業率其實全名叫做全國城鎮青年勞動力失業率沒錯你如果不是城鎮戶口在國家眼中你甚至都不配被統計到失業率當中 孫志剛大家還記得嗎一個大學生就因為沒有贊助證跑到了大城市就被廣州警察抓起來強制手農結果被毆打致死這也不過就是20年前的事哪怕是到了今天住在北京但沒有北京戶口的人買房看病孩子讀書等等都比有北京戶口的人困難得多 So, whether it is the theory of the apple of Android, the theory of the Ligongshuoha or the theory of the theory of the The CCP does not solve the problem, but solve the problem Everyone is very familiar with it But recently I saw someone on the wall public account Proposed a "coward theory" I think it's very good He said Chinese society is like a broken old barn There will always be rats coming in to steal food Farmers do not want to waste food, waste power, and miss tea and meat Also do not want to take risks to push down and rebuild 只能一天到晚費勤忘食的盯著有一隻抓一隻如果老鼠越來越多分身乏術那就索性花錢養幾隻貓老鼠是抓住了糧食也保住了但漏洞不修補糧倉不重建只會有抓不完的老鼠農場主看似重視其實是在迴避看似積極其實是懶惰 提出这个比喻的那篇文章现在当然是已经被下架了我这里特意不说出作者名称请作者不要介意因为你是墙内的公众号作者我不说你名字是为了保护你我要听你名字你就离被封号不远了 不過這個比喻也有一些不合適的地方因為提出三大理論的人並不是偷食物的老鼠他們只不過是用隱晦的方式提醒農場主糧倉有破洞的人但就僅僅是這樣農場主也容不下他們 最後中共如此忌憚這三大理論我認為還有一個大家忽略了的因素我們想想這三大理論的核心受眾是誰大部分都是被傳統價值觀束縛的中下層男性過去這批人是最穩定最順從最容易被動員起來的群體換句話說就是中共的基本盤 But the three major theories may make this group of people who are originally silent, obedient and dedicated start to deviate from the illusion provided by the state from emotional and cognitive perspective The CCP has always been afraid of the basic version of awakening I just said that a society that can use sarcasm and self-punishment to structure reality is a society that is difficult to be easily brainwashed 對中共來說這種民間自發的廣泛傳播並且帶上了一些娛樂性質的理論其實是最麻煩的因為這些理論不談民主不講革命卻無形中讓人們在心理層面完成了反抗 現在對體制不滿的年輕人不再需要上街喊口號掛橫幅他們選擇的是一種消極的對抗方式不結婚、不生子、不買房、不消費中共並不害怕憤怒的人民他們害怕的是年輕人變得什麼都不在乎 畢竟反抗的人群可以輕易被鎮壓但再強悍的維穩部隊也叫不醒一個決心躺平的靈魂我是老周橫梅冷隊誌言不諱我們下期再見