I'm Paul Bloom. I'm a professor of 
psychology at University of Toronto  
and an ameritus professor at Yale 
University. And I study human nature.  
I study children. I study development. 
I'm particularly interested in morality,  
in the social emotions, in how we understand 
ourselves and how we relate to other people.
Chapter one, the promise and peril of AI 
companions. When people talk about loneliness,  
when we think about loneliness, we think about 
being alone, about solitude. And that can be  
definitely a source of loneliness, but a lot of 
us are comfortable being alone. And you could  
be alone for a long period of time, but not 
feel lonely if you know that there's people  
who love you and understand you and appreciate you 
kind of waiting in wings for when you come back.  
What loneliness is at its root is a lack of human 
connectedness. The feeling that you aren't loved,  
you aren't needed, you aren't respected. 
This could mean you have nobody in your life,  
but it could also mean that you're surrounded by 
people and you're not connecting to them. Hannah  
Rent pointed out that the most painful form of 
loneliness is when you are surrounded by people  
and you feel utterly isolated. And I'm interested 
in loneliness in part because it's an exquisitly  
painful experience. It's it's one of the worst 
states a human could be to feel alone, to feel  
disconnected. People talk about a loneliness 
epidemic. There's a wonderful discussion by  
Derek Thompson. He argues there is no loneliness 
epidemic. And in fact, if you look at the data,  
people were much lonier a few years ago during CO 
than they are now. And there's not much evidence  
people are more lonely now than they were 20, 30, 
40, 50 years ago. What we see instead is actually  
a solitude epidemic. So people are spending 
much more time alone than they ever have been.  
And it makes sense if you think about the the way 
technology, our houses are much better. Our TVs  
are much better. Used to be your average person 
went to the movies multiple times a month. Now we  
don't go to the movies much. We watch movies 
movies at home on our big screen TVs and our  
abundance of streaming uh uh channels. We used 
to go out to eat a lot. Now, you know, a lot of  
our dining is alone and um we order from uh Uber 
Eats. So as our interior light, the possibility  
for rich life indoors, inside by ourselves has 
gotten better, um we have become more alone. And  
you could talk about whether solitude in itself 
is a problem. What I will say about loneliness  
is regardless of whether or not it's an epidemic, 
regardless of how bad it is relative to the past,  
it's a terrible thing and many people suffer from 
it. um estimates of how many people suffer. It's  
hard to get a good estimate because it depends how 
you ask the question, but a reasonable estimate  
is one in five. One in five people are awfully 
lonely. Loneliness is most severe in adolescence  
and it's most severe in the very old. And these 
people really suffer. We now live in a world with  
LLMs, uh, large language models, generative 
AI, machines that seem to many of us to be  
intelligent, some say super intelligent, and more 
than that seem compassionate, seem empathic. Last  
year, uh, there was a I was part of a team of 
researchers that was led by my colleague, uh,  
Mickey Ensllett and we wrote a paper called in 
praise of empathic AI. And in it, we summarized a  
lot of the data suggesting that when you compare 
people interacting with people and interacting  
with AIS, at least for short-term interactions, 
the AIS win. So the typical experiment is you'd  
have one person, one group of people would 
interact with uh with other people, maybe over  
text or talking. another group would interact with 
a chat GBT text or talking and then later on they  
would rate their experiences and the main finding 
is that if you don't know who's a person who's AI  
you don't you're not biased in any way the people 
who interact with chat GPT say they felt more  
listened to they felt they they were talking to 
somebody who's more empathic more compassionate  
to get more out of it so we we published this 
and we said look here's a case for for empathic  
AI And man, people hated this article. I've I've 
written a few things people disliked, but boy,  
they they they we got slammed. And I I I have 
some sympathy for the objections. We made the  
positive case for AI. But there's a negative 
case, too. And I think a proper understanding,  
a proper answer to the question, what role should 
these things play in our lives should look at both  
sides of the issue and I think deal with some very 
very difficult questions. When I think of people  
interacting with AI companions, I worry. I'm very 
sensitive to negatives. And I'm most sensitive to  
negatives when I think about young people, about 
adolescence, maybe people in their 20s. And I see  
two problems. And they're both deeply serious. One 
is that these AIs are really good to communicate  
with. They are they listen. They they they never 
wait for you to finish their story so they could  
tell their own story. They never say, "Man, 
I'm busy. Get back to me later." They're always  
there for you. And this is going to get better and 
better and better. So my first worry is that they  
will become addictive. that I'm going to prefer 
interacting with my version of ChachiPT or Claude  
or Gemini or whatever than to a person. And you 
know, maybe this is fine if I'm 90 years old and  
I have no one else to talk to, but but if I'm a 
teenager, I should be getting out there. I should  
be dealing with with with friends, developing 
romantic relationships, developing attachments.  
And one view I have is that until these AIs 
get conscious, until they become sentient,  
then there is something deeply wrong about 
preferring them to humans. You know, human  
interaction is where it's at. I have two sons and 
uh if I was to discover that one of them or both  
of them have left their longtime relationships 
and now they're in love with their phone,  
I I would say this is it's awful. What a waste of 
a life. So my first worry is addiction that this  
will will pull us away from human interactions and 
I strongly believe it's human interactions that  
matter the most. My second worry has to do with 
the nature of the interactions with AI where the  
AIs are famously sophantic. They they praise you. 
They suck up to you. Nothing you will do is wrong  
to them. And this could be exhilarating, but it 
robs you of the possibility for social learning.  
In general, we learn through friction. We learn by 
trying out things and failing. A toddler learns to  
walk by falling down. A comedian learns to to to 
be good on stage by bombing. A boxer learns to to  
block a punch by being smacked in the kisser. And 
in a social interaction, we learn by having people  
get bored of what we have to say. We learn when 
we when when we tell a joke and it falls flat. We  
learn when someone is annoyed at us for not being 
compassionate enough. And so we learn from social  
feedback that basically says you're messing 
up. These AIs by their very nature don't give  
that sort of feedback. And so this has dystopian 
possibilities. What is how will a teenager grow  
up if he never learns not to tell boring stories 
because the AI interacts with is never bored? How  
will somebody learn to apologize if she endlessly 
deals with a machine that needs no apology? What  
would the world be like if the answer to the 
question, "Am I the asshole?" is always a sound  
and reassuring, "Of course you're not the [ __ ] 
Everyone else is." And I think it's a problem. I  
think that that social growth requires messy 
often painful interactions and this is what  
the chat bots don't provide us. If you want to 
think about the effects of these sophantic uh AIs,  
maybe a good analogy is billionaires or royalty 
or world leaders who are surrounded by toadies and  
yesmen. There's a wonderful book called careless 
people that's about uh tech billionaires and the  
picture it portrays is these are people I think 
almost all all of them men who are surrounded  
by individuals who tell them all the time how 
smart they are and how everything they say is  
right and the author nicely portrays the damage it 
does to these people. They become insensitive to  
feelings of others. They become narcissistic. They 
develop delusions of a sort. And you can see this,  
I think, also through history, the extremely 
powerful often go a little bit crazy cuz they're  
surrounded by people who always tell them that 
they're right. One of the few good things about  
not being very rich and very powerful is we're not 
surrounded by yesmen. We're surrounded by people,  
you know, who call us on stuff, who don't suck 
up to us, and who give us valuable feedback. So,  
we don't got a little bit crazy in that way. 
And one of the worries about chatbots and AI  
is that any one of us can now become as if 
we were a billionaire, as if we were a king,  
as if we were a president because we're now have 
for the first time in our lives somebody who for  
whom we could do no wrong and who always tells us 
that we are the smartest, the best person around.  
So John Casio is the late uh neuroscientist who 
did the most research on loneliness and kind of  
pioneered the science of loneliness and psychology 
and he pointed out that loneliness isn't a glitch  
in the system. It's not some sort of signed 
brain isn't working properly. Loneliness is is an  
expression of a need. It's like hunger or thirst. 
And as such is an essential part of being human.  
If you don't feel hungry, you don't seek out food. 
You die. If you don't feel thirsty, you don't seek  
out liquid and you die. And loneliness is much 
the same. Loneliness, among other things, serves  
as a motivator. And an animal like us who had no 
loneliness, who wasn't motivated to make human  
contact, wouldn't reproduce, wouldn't survive. It 
would be a dead end from an evolutionary point of  
view. So loneliness, although it's painful, is an 
absolutely essential thing to have. I mean to put  
it another way um imagine a child born who could 
not feel lonely. That would be a disaster. The  
child wouldn't seek out contact and and wouldn't 
thrive as a person. So loneliness is a signal in  
at least two ways. The first is it's a motivator. 
It gets you to talk to people. It gets you to  
invite friends for dinner and get you to to ask 
somebody out for a date. It gets you to strike  
up a conversation with somebody. And if the need 
for social connection is satisfied by your phone,  
by your laptop, that motivation will go away. 
So I worry about the extent to which these AIs,  
these chat bots will pull us away from meaningful 
connections with other people. I mean, I use them  
myself. I like them. I I I I use them in my 
work. Sometimes it's actually interesting to  
talk to them. It's they can be interesting. They 
could be stimulating, but I I wouldn't want them  
to be such that they would they would be so 
interesting and so stimulating that I don't  
talk to my wife anymore. I don't talk to my kids 
or talk to my friends. And this is a problem that  
has every potential of getting worse. So, right 
now, I mostly communicate through typing. Um,  
it could talk to them. They get to do voice back 
and forth conversations. The conversational skills  
will get more and more realistic. And then pretty 
soon you're looking at somebody on a screen who  
looks exactly like a person who's interested you 
very attractive person. Great facial expressions  
and something irresistible about that. And then 
to get more science fictiony we could get to sort  
of robots you know let alone sex bots. Um and 
whole conversation there about what to do with  
that. But they're going to become at the trends 
continue more and more and more compelling. And  
so if you're listening to me and saying, "Look, 
I I talk to chat GPT all the time and it doesn't  
do anything for me. Who cares?" Well, maybe. 
And some people some people get caught up now,  
but but it is going to get better and better 
at this. And at some point, you may be talking  
to a future version of Chat GBT and in some way 
find it irresistible. I also think it's a problem  
from a social point of view. You know, I think we 
could talk more to the people around us, not less.  
It's also a signal in that it it helps correct our 
socially maladaptive, often selfish behavior. And  
I think we are by nature often selfish socially. 
And it's social feedback that gets me to realize  
I got to listen to the other person. I got to 
listen to them. I got to I got to maybe expand  
my compassion, my caring. I got to try to get 
in their head and figure out what's going on  
with them and and and and maybe help them. And 
I think we want to do that, but we also have  
selfish impulses that keep us from doing so. But 
if you've ever talked to a chatbot, there's none  
of that. And this has individual implications, 
but also broader social implications. We don't  
want to live in a world where everybody everyone's 
selfish urges are satisfied and nobody really has  
leared to care about other people. There have been 
various news reports of people who with delusions  
where the delusions have been encouraged by uh 
by these AI models where uh somebody comes in and  
and has a crazy view sometimes a dangerous view 
involving say you know a paranoid idea that people  
are trying to get me and the AI says you're 
absolutely right and does something which no  
therapist in her right mind would do and no friend 
would ever do which is encourage an illusion. Now,  
I also know that the that the the companies 
that create these AIs are worried about this.  
There was a famous case where uh where an AI may 
well have contributed to somebody's suicide and  
um and they're working on the models to to stop 
this from happening to establish guard rails so  
that the extreme delusions aren't encouraged. 
And I think that that's an excellent way to go.  
But the broader picture is doesn't go away which 
is we all have ways in which we tend to go off  
the rails even a little bit and having people 
around us not AI but people tend to correct us  
and keep us more sane. If I was to tell tell you 
this crazy ass idea you say that's pretty dumb  
but I tell Chad and I says you're so smart. Tell 
me more. I I think you're on to something here  
and encourages me in ways that I shouldn't 
be encouraged. I don't know how severe this  
problem is. I don't know in what how much of this 
AI psychosis as it's called how often that occurs  
but it's something which occurs to some degree and 
I think it's something that occurs to all of us to  
a little bit when we interact with these things. 
was talking to a friend of mine, a a a colleague,  
and she was describing a dispute she had with 
somebody and I'm listening to and I'm saying,  
you know, I feel that this other person might have 
a bit of a point. Tried to say it nicely. And she  
she looks at me and she says, you know, quite a 
bit of righteousness. I told us to chat GBT and  
chat GBT told me I'm 100% right. That's what the 
machine does. It tells you you're right. And I  
think part of I think for some people, for all of 
us, but for some people in particular, being told,  
"You're right, you're right, you're right, has a 
damaging uh effect." So, I have a long-standing  
argument of a friend of mine, I'm not going 
to out who he is, but he feels strongly about  
this where when I say, "Look, this is terrible 
if people ended up with AI companions instead  
of other people." He says, "Why?" He says, "If 
these AI companions are are rich, good company,  
interesting, intelligent, why? You're just being 
prejudice, man. Like, you know, just what what  
what do we lose?" And it's a good question. It's a 
question we're going to be hearing more and more,  
I think, as time goes by. But I like the answer 
given by Oliver Burkeman. And Oliver gives  
uh this nice example. His example is, you know, 
you're at home one day and your phone rings and  
you pick it up. It's an old friend. You talk 
to an old friend for an hour about your life,  
about they show a lot of concern for you and 
so on. And it was a wonderful conversation.  
You hang up and 10 minutes later, you get an 
email. It's from uh it's from Meta. Meta says,  
"You would have received a phone call. It was 
not from your friend. It was from us. You were  
using voice cloning software. We're using powerful 
AIs to extract personal history and everything.  
Did you enjoy it? How did it go?" And Bergman 
says, "Um, and I agree. You'd feel betrayed. you  
were lied to. But more than that, communicating 
with a real person is enormously different from  
communicating with a non-sensient unconscious 
machine. Even if the words are the same,  
even if the insights are the same, the stories 
are the same, they're different because part  
of a relationship, part of a communication 
involves the consciousness of the other person.  
When I'm with a friend, I like to make my friend 
laugh sometimes, and I like when they're concerned  
about me, and I might like to surprise them. But 
an AI can't find anything funny, not really. Can't  
uh can't be amused, can't be surprised, can't be 
concerned, has no needs, can simulate all of these  
things, but a simulation isn't a real thing. Now 
throughout this I've always had this qualification  
which is that these machines are non-sensient 
non-concious there's nothing at home maybe one  
day that will change and maybe one day AIs will 
be fully conscious beings and then that changes  
everything then there'll be people and then the 
world will contain many many more people and then  
what I say might not apply then things will be 
very different but until then these interactions  
with these chat bots I think inevitably fall far 
far short of interactions with a person. So I'm  
sensitive to the downsides of AI and I I worry 
deeply about them, but I don't think we should  
forget the upsides. So one can maybe draw an 
analogy here with boredom and maybe the end of  
boredom. Not so late at night the TV stations 
would go off and then if you're by yourself,  
what are you going to do? Okay, read a book. Kind 
of kind of boring. sitting on a bus, sitting on a  
train, you you're bored a lot at a time. And now 
we're almost never bored. We got our phones. Our  
phones, you know, we play games on our phones. We 
listen to podcasts. Uh on my way here, I listen to  
a to an exciting podcast while playing uh the New 
York Times spelling bee. And I wasn't bored for a  
second. And this is a good thing. Boredom is is 
aversive. Boredom is unpleasant. Now, it's also  
a bad thing. Boredom serves certain functions. 
It could be we get so entranced by our phones we  
don't we're not motivated to find more stimulating 
intellectual things on analogy with how having our  
loneliness satisfied um might keep us away from 
contact reaching out to people but loneliness is  
a lot worse than boredom. Loneliness is a form of 
agony and there are many people in the world who  
suffer from loneliness. to deny them the capacity 
to interact with something that can make the  
loneliness go away I see as a form of cruelty be 
like you know people having pets and getting great  
meaning from their pets and you take them away 
you say that's not enough that's not rich enough  
the people I think would benefit most from these 
interventions from empathic machines are the very  
old there are a lot of old people around many of 
them are institutionalized Many of them spend days  
and days and days without any meaningful human 
contact. It is nice to imagine these old people  
constantly being surrounded by doing grandchildren 
and and loving children. This a fantasy. Many of  
them have nobody, no family. And there's not 
enough money in the world to pay people to  
give them to talk to them for hours per day. Also, 
many of them suffer from various forms of dementia  
that makes them difficult to talk to, difficult to 
communicate with. If there could be a machine that  
could end their loneliness, if if if it turns out 
that that these chatbots do anything to to provide  
them with company to make this pain go away, 
that'd be a godsend. If you want an analogy, think  
about powerful painkillers like fentinyl. These 
have their dangers. They're addictive. they they  
you could overdose on them or so on, I wouldn't 
just give them out to everybody. But if you showed  
me somebody who was in irredeemable pain and maybe 
they're they're in their 90s, I'd say, "Forget  
about worries about addiction. Pump them up. Make 
their pain go away." And that's what I think about  
Chad. But it's not just old people. When I was 12, 
my mother died. And this was a wrenching event for  
me. And it led to a period of great sadness and 
then a period of social disconnection and then  
a period of loneliness that lasted quite a long 
time. If there was a machine available to me that  
would make me feel loved, cared for, understood, 
that I could talk to, that would listen to me,  
that would make my days more fuller and more 
social. It would have made me so much happier  
and so mindful of the problems, the worries about 
addiction, the worries about about not becoming a  
full human. One way to think about people versus 
AIS is uh was expressed by my uh by my friend  
and colleague Molly Crockett who described these 
chat bots as emotional soilent. I like the analogy  
because Soylent is not bad. I actually I like 
the chocolate one. Um, it is it is nutritious  
and filling and so on. And you could you could 
be sustained by it, but it's not food. It lacks  
the richness and and and and flavor and texture 
of real food. And a life that's [snorts] purely  
living on soilent on a meal replacement drink 
would be a kind of really lame life compared  
to one where you're having actual meals. This 
analogy suggests a place for these AI companions,  
sort of a backup, a backup way to sustain 
ourselves when the real stuff isn't around,  
but by no means a perfect substitute for the real 
stuff. I'd like to think that there'd be some some  
solution here where we could ease the pain of 
loneliness and at the same time allow people the  
opportunity to develop and become more human and 
ultimately outgrow the need for these machines.
Chapter 2, why are we compelled to behave badly? 
So I'm really interested in perverse actions.  
And what I mean by perverse actions are when we 
do the wrong thing. Wrong from a moral point of  
view. Wrong for a rational point of view just for 
the sake of doing the wrong thing. Why we rebel  
against the forces of morality and rationality? I 
find this a fascinating question. It's a question  
which has occupied psychologists and philosophers 
and theologians for a very long time and it  
seems like a genuine puzzle. You know, natural 
selection, human development, our needs as social  
creatures and physical creatures will should all 
drive us to behave reasonably, rationally. So,  
it's a really interesting puzzle for me why 
sometimes we don't. Not because we're making  
a mistake. We slip up all the time but because we 
choose not to. So whenever I talk about perversity  
inevitably people ask me you know so so you know 
what kind of perverse things do you do? How do  
you break the rules? How do you you know what kind 
of great these gross immoral actions you've done?  
The truth is I'm a fairly boring person if you're 
not talking to Hunter Thompson here. On the other  
hand, uh I I I do I engage in what a friend 
of mine uh Talia Wheatley described as micro  
perversity, which is these little little ways in 
which I I I I do things kind of unexpected. You  
know, maybe we're sitting across dinner and all 
of a sudden I grab one of your French fries. Dude,  
what's what's up with that? Eh, just felt like 
it. I was on a podcast and somebody asked me my  
opinion of um of uh a very famous figure in my 
field and I said yeah he's a drunk and you know  
the person was shocked just edit that out but so 
I push it in little ways but in big ways I am not  
I'm not a very perverse person there's a sense 
which psychologists say research is me search and  
people study the way they are for me I've often 
studied what I'm not I mean I study religion even  
though I'm not religious uh and and I think 
my interest in perversity often is that I'm  
not that perverse and so that makes me even more 
interested in the perversity of others. My work  
on on psychology is very informed by evolutionary 
theory and I'm always the sort to ask how did this  
evolve and I think about this in my research on 
uh social interaction on morality on rationality  
always looking for an evolutionary account for 
how we've come to be I don't think in the case of  
perversity there is such an evolutionary account 
I don't think for instance other animals other  
primates engage engage in perverse actions in 
the sense I'm interested in. They do good things,  
they do bad things, sometimes they they make 
mistakes, but but they aren't purposefully  
perverse. Being purposely perverse is something 
that's uniquely human. Doesn't mean it's magic.  
It doesn't mean it violates evolutionary theory. 
I I I think the best way to think about it is  
that we've evolved through natural selection an 
extraordinarily rich set of cognitive capacities,  
a sort of social intelligence, the ability 
to imagine a future, moral motivations,  
perverse actions are something we've thought 
of. Once given this sort of suite of capacities,  
all of a sudden it occurs to some of us, many of 
us, maybe all of us, hey, I can be perverse. And  
so it wasn't shaped directly by evolution, but 
it's more of a sort of individual discovery that  
we all make. One of the forces behind perversity 
that I find particularly interesting is what I  
call hopeful monster theory. And hopeful monster 
is a phrase um used to explain an evolutionary  
theory by this guy a long time ago named Goldmid. 
And Goldman understood that the logic of natural  
selection is you have these animals and they 
and you know and and they reproduce and you  
get this very very slight variation and then the 
variants that do better uh uh give rise to more  
offspring. The ones that do worse die out and 
through this slow gradual accretion you end up  
with different species and different organs and 
different capacities. That's the Darwinian story  
of natural selection. But Goldmith said there's 
something else. Sometimes he argued there are  
extreme mutations and these extreme mutations lead 
to radical changes in creatures and most of the  
time they're unsuccessful. They lead to death. But 
some small proportion of the time they pay off.  
They lead to an entirely different way of doing 
things that's superior. And in that way he argued  
we get certain forms certain cases where there's 
speciation different species evolve. Now I'm not  
arguing that this is true for evolution. I'm not 
I'm not an evolutionary biologist. I understand  
many of them look very uh very poorly on this 
theory. But I do think it's true for everyday  
life. I think sometimes if your life is going 
well, you will keep on doing what you do and  
maybe you'll try out different things. You'll try 
this restaurant instead of at that restaurant.  
Maybe you'll go to work 10 minutes earlier, just 
minor modifications. You behave towards your kid,  
towards your spouse in subtly different ways. 
That's normal life when it going well. What  
if it's not going well? What if everything you 
try fails? What if it's all a disaster? Well,  
maybe what you should do is analogy of hopeful 
monster theory. Take a jump. Do something totally  
different. Don't Don't go to work one day. Leave 
your job. Start a new relationship. Do something  
totally different. If you ain't got nothing, you 
ain't got nothing to lose. If things are going  
badly, these jumps, the payoff that these jumps 
could give you, these very perverse acts can give  
you um outweighs the costs of their failure. And 
I think this is a form of perversity that shows up  
sometimes in extreme circumstances, but it but it 
but it shows up in some individual lives. So what  
do I mean when I'm talking about perversity? Well, 
my favorite example and a favorite example anybody  
who thinks about this is that of St. Augustine. 
So St. Augustine wrote to confessions a long  
time ago and in it he begins a chapter by saying 
I'm going to confess my my my perverse and evil  
actions and you think he's going to talk about 
sex because he's kind of leading up a lot of  
sexual insinuation doesn't talk about sex at all. 
His example to the disappointment of many people  
through history is very very mild. He and his 
friend go into an orchard and they steal some  
pears. That's it. That's the extent of the crime. 
But Augustine was fascinated by this because he  
didn't know why he did it. He said, "I wasn't 
hungry and in fact I threw the pears to some pigs.  
Didn't want them. I did it because I wanted to 
be bad." This was puzzling for Augustine because  
unlike other bad behaviors, including his sexual 
transgressions, there was no motivation for it.  
His sexual transgressions were meant to satisfy 
a desire he had. But where does the desire to be  
bad come from? Why would he want to be bad? This 
sort of historical example led me to be interested  
in perverse actions. And I then wanted to collect 
everyday examples. I had a lot of examples from  
books and from movies and everything. I wanted to 
get collect everyday examples. So I started what  
I called the perversity project where I went 
online in multiple sources and asked people  
to contribute stories from their own lives where 
they acted perversely. And perversely was defined  
as cases where they did the wrong thing because 
it was wrong. And I got some amazing stories. The  
first story I got was from this young woman who 
flirted with her girlfriend's boyfriend. Um, just  
to get him interested in her, get her girlfriend 
very upset. And she, I don't know, I just did it  
to be wrong. I just did it cuz it would just mess 
things up in some way that was satisfying to me.  
But the story I like the most is some guy he 
goes on and he says like I'm walking to my  
friend and we get some some uh some ice cream and 
I thought to myself, man, it would be messed up  
if I stuck my finger in his ice cream. So I did 
it. I stuck my finger in his ice cream. He say,  
"Dude, what are you doing?" I don't know. I just 
wanted to do something messed up. And now I have  
hundreds of examples like that. Some are cruel. 
Some are involving real cruel things people do to  
each other. Some are silly. Some are really mild. 
Somebody somebody wrote a little thing saying,  
you know, sometimes even there's a sign saying 
don't walk on the grass. I stick my fing my foot  
in there just just to do it a little bit very 
mild and sweet. I think once you introduce the  
term perversity, you introduce the idea to people, 
everyone has their own examples. So the perverse  
acts I'm I'm interested in and I study are ones 
that are deliberate and conscious and they're not  
mistakes. But there's a near neighbor to them 
which is actually very interesting and it's  
perverse actions that are born out of intrusive 
thoughts. So we all have intrusive inappropriate  
thoughts. You know I'm I'm you know I'm standing 
on a high balcony and have the urge to jump. I'm  
I'm on the subway and there's somebody next to 
me and I have the urge to push. I never would,  
but there is this intrusive urge. And for some of 
some of us in in cases of psychological problems,  
the urge can become overwhelming and requires 
treatment, but most of us don't have it that  
badly. We have this intrusive urge. Um, but 
sometimes there's a bit of a glitch in the system  
and um and it leads us to behave in ways that are 
similar to perverse actions. So for instance um  
people who are very very worried about appearing 
prejudiced will sometimes blurt out and be more  
likely to blurt out prejudice remarks because 
they're constantly monitoring and thinking and  
it's more on their mind. There's some studies 
finding that if you're told don't reveal the  
location of something told to keep a secret you 
become more than somebody else more likely to  
reveal a location because you have this voice in 
your head saying don't tell them don't tell them.  
don't tell them. And that that's a very loud voice 
and things could could slip out. I don't think  
they're true expressions of say an autonomous 
urge, but they are perverse in the sense that you  
end up doing exactly what you don't want to do. 
Psychologists have tried to explore perversion in  
uh in different directions. And one I think 
[clears throat] interesting attempt at this  
was done by uh Michael Bang Peterson and 
his colleagues and they developed what they  
called the need for chaos scale and the need for 
chaos scale explores a sort of particular form  
of perverse action to the desire to destroy 
everything that's good. You have to say how  
much you agree to statements like sometimes 
I just like to destroy beautiful things or I  
think society should be burnt to the ground or 
sometimes I see something beautiful and I wish  
it would go away. And it turns out people vary 
widely. Some people say no no no that's crazy.  
And other people say yes. Um they find in this 
scale and maybe this won't be surprising to you  
um that young people tend to go higher for need 
for chaos than old people. Men are higher than  
women and that people on the political extremes 
tend to be higher than people in the center. They  
had expected that people on the right extremely 
rightwing would show more of a need for chaos than  
the left wing and some while other people expected 
should be more on the left than the right. But it  
turns out it's kind of balanced. It's just 
political extremes tend to encourage a sort  
of need for chaos. To put it another way, I think 
maybe a better way is if you have a very high need  
for chaos, you really want to mess the world up. 
You'll be drawn to views on the political extreme  
either to the right or to the left. There are many 
explanations for perverse behavior. I think this  
diversity of explanations is one reason why it's 
such an interesting topic. It reflects all sorts  
of different human motivations. But for my money, 
the most interesting motivation for perversity is  
a desire for autonomy, a desire to be an agent 
in the world to to to exert one's will. If I  
just do the rational thing, if I just do the moral 
thing, what good am I? Why am I needed? I could be  
replaced by an algorithm. And I think this weighs 
on us. This weighs on us as we do, as we should,  
the reasonable thing, the moral thing, over and 
over and over again. We want to show ourselves  
to be human. We want to push against it. I think 
this explains why perverse behavior shows up in  
particular at certain points of life. Toddlers 
are notoriously perverse creatures. They want to  
exert their will. They want to exert their will 
sometimes in silly ways by demanding something  
that they can't get, by picking a fight over 
something that's ridiculous. It's just filled  
with rage, but in a profoundly irrational way, 
but but it's a human desire and it shows up early.  
Adolescence, a period of great transition and 
a great uncertainty of where you you um you fit  
into society is a time for perverse actions. And 
um there's a so-called midlife crisis at a certain  
point in age. Uh a lot of men, a lot of women 
are wondering, is this what it is? Is this what  
I'm stuck with? Is this the way my life is going? 
And so it it grates on them and they push and you  
know they they push. They may get a tattoo. 
They may get a sports car they can't afford.  
They may do something crazy. They may end one 
relationship and begin another. And I think that  
um these times of life in which perversity is 
most extreme reveals the power of autonomy in  
uh as as one explanation for it. There's also 
some psychological research and the psychological  
research comes under the rubric of what's called 
reactance theory. And the idea of reactance theory  
is sometimes people will do things just because 
they are told not to do those things. And I think  
this expresses the urge to be autonomous. If I was 
going to walk out that door when I leave, there's  
many doors. I choose to walk out that door and I'm 
headed to that door and then somebody tells me,  
"You better walk out that door." I might choose 
to walk out a different door. Maybe that was the  
door I wanted to, but nobody tells me what to do. 
I want to make my own decisions. I want to be be  
a person. I want to be autonomous. And so there's 
various studies finding that interventions often  
have paradoxical effects. During COVID, there was 
some evidence that for some people being told they  
had to get a vaccine shot made them less likely to 
get a vaccine shot. Studies of binge drinking in  
colleges find that some people if they're told 
very strongly and in a very authoritarian way,  
you are not to drink too much, will then go 
out and drink too much. Same thing for drug  
use and for smoking. Often we respond to to 
demands upon ourselves. And you don't have  
to hear the psychological studies to know this. 
We we feel in everyday life often we respond to  
demands upon ourselves by doing the opposite. 
And it's because we want to be in charge of  
ourselves. And this is one of the forces I think 
behind perverse behavior. You have to distinguish  
the autonomy explanation from a signaling 
explanation. I think signaling explanations  
perversity are interesting. But this is different. 
When I say when we act, when we break the rules,  
it's not to impress other people. It's not to say, 
"Wow, what a rule breaker. How interesting." It's  
to show something to ourselves. A perverse agent 
might break the rules in ways that are private  
that only he or she knows about. The concern 
about autonomy is not a concern about how about  
looking autonomous. It's a concern about being 
autonomous. And you know, I'm not the first to  
point this out. You know um this is an observation 
by uh by dstoyfski by Sartra about how even in the  
most private of ways we want to show ourselves to 
be free. Another explanation for perverse acts is  
to impress other people. I mean you know if if I 
behave rationally and morally you might see me as  
a square. Who wouldn't want that? I might want to 
be vivacious exciting unpredictable sexy in a way.  
And I think it's maybe no surprise for why the 
the the jump in perverse behavior by adolescence  
may be in part an asserting of autonomy, but it 
may also be in large part because this is a time  
where people are struggling to find partners, 
to impress, to rise up to social hierarchy. And  
in the right sort of community, a reputation for 
being a bit unpredictable, a bit dangerous really  
does do the trick. People who study social 
behavior and uh game theory and that kind of  
thing have pointed out that there's cases where 
sort of strategic irrationality, a little bit  
of craziness can actually give you an advantage 
over somebody else. And sometimes this craziness  
manifests itself as perversity. A rational person 
is an extremely predictable person. And someone  
who has a bit of perversity through their lives, 
it makes them unpredictable in certain ways. A  
perfectly rational poker player is a poker player 
who's fairly easy to beat, which is why the best  
poker players always throw some randomness into 
their behavior. And you know, often life is poker  
writ large. Another way in which perversity could 
be powerful is regarding threats. So suppose I'm a  
perfectly rational agent and you and I are in some 
sort of deal and I say if you do this I'm going to  
do this back at you. But you know I'm rational. 
So if I make an extreme threat and a threat that  
would throw myself at risk that would would cause 
too much damage, you could dismiss it. Bloom is  
rational. He would never do something extreme. But 
suppose you knew I was a perverse agent and often  
did the wrong thing just for the sake of doing 
the wrong thing. Now you have to worry about  
my unrealistic threats. It's what Richard Nixon 
called the madman theory of politics, which is if  
you give your adversary the impression that you're 
a little bit nuts, it gives you an edge in certain  
ways. And I think some perverse behavior could be 
explained in that way. There are some fields of  
human endeavor where perversity is really priced. 
And you know, probably no more than the art world.  
The great artists are often known and appreciated 
and admired for acts that seem perverse and  
unpredictable. It's said that you know modern 
art began when there was an art competition in  
New York City and they said they would accept any 
artwork. So Marcel Duchamp sent in a urinal and  
they they sent it back. They said no no we just 
want artwork and Duchamp said it is artwork. And  
the urinal the called fountain became one of the 
most prized prized artwork of our time. When we  
think about about great artistic innovations and 
often great scientific discoveries, there's often  
a sense of the audacious. Another example is from 
Banksy. So Banksy um had this artwork um girl for  
balloon I think it was called um on auction from 
Sabes. And so they're going around and they're  
doing the the gavvels and everything and people 
are bidding. And when the final bid comes in,  
a machine that was hidden inside the frame starts 
to operate and and the painting goes down and is  
shredded in front of a horrified people and 
it shreds about half of it. This this artwork  
which has been destroyed is of course now far more 
valuable than uh than it was it was purchased for  
because of Banksy's willful acts of destruction. 
I mean to be honest sometimes uh the the it's not  
so much perversity as it is calculation. I'm not 
sure. Banksy described Banksy described himself as  
an act of creative destruction and everything. But 
Banksy might have also thought boy this is going  
to get me a lot of attention a lot of money in 
which case does it count as perversity or does it  
count as sort of the enactment of perversity? I'm 
not sure. Perverse actions are individual acts,  
but they're in the context of a culture. And 
this shows up in a couple of ways. One way is  
your culture determines how much perversity is is 
encouraged, how much it's nurtured, encouraged, or  
how much it's staunched. There are many societies 
where children are encouraged to go a bit crazy,  
to be creative, to break the rules. and an 
imaginative way of breaking the rules is often  
looked at kind of fondly. You know, respect causes 
some laughter. There's other more authoritarian  
cultures where children are expected not to do 
so where where attempts to break the rules are  
severely punished. Within sort of adult community, 
there have been times and situations in our world  
say where conformity is encouraged where skill 
and virtuosity are encouraged. Other times maybe  
the skill matters less and the imaginative jumps 
matter more the creativity audaciousness. So you  
get this influence of culture and then of course 
the perverse acts of people shape the culture.  
Um to some extent you could look at the music 
we listen to now the movies we watch the books  
we read the art we appreciate and we see in it 
the reflections of the individual decisions most  
of them rational most of them normal but some 
small percentage of them perverse on the world  
we have now. So culture influences the extent of 
perversity and perversity goes back and influences  
culture. It wouldn't be crazy to look down on 
perversity. Um I mean it makes sense that people  
should do the right thing right from a moral point 
of view right from a rational point of view. And  
I think 99.9% of the time this is the best way 
to live a life. A lot of perverse actions also  
cause harm. They cause suffering. I think there's 
a lot of evil that's not perverse. A lot of evil  
is done just for sort of functional reasons and 
people want to satisfy goals. You want to rob a  
bank cuz that's where the money is. You want to 
kill somebody because you hate them. Not cruel,  
but not not perverse. But some acts, evil acts 
are perverse. There are perverse agents who  
live among us and they cause nothing but 
trouble. It's like Alfred Batman's butler  
um how he described a Joker which is that some 
some people just want to watch the world burn.  
And that's not there's nothing good to that. 
But I'm a fan of perversity at least in the  
right places in the right dosages. Um I think 
perversity is a force that makes the world more  
interesting. It it pushes the boundary of creative 
products of art of music of of literature.  
I think it plays a role even in science where 
I think sometimes scientists act perversely  
and sometimes not always not usually but sometimes 
it pays off in wonderful ways. I also think on an  
everyday basis it makes life more interesting. You 
know, I want my friends to be moral and rational  
most of the time, but I think it's a little bit 
of a more interesting world where occasionally,  
you know, I steal my friend's French fry and 
uh and you know, he sticks his finger into  
my ice cream and there's a little bit of chaos 
inserted that make life a little bit more fun.
Chapter 3, the psychology of revenge. I study 
morality, moral psychology. our beliefs about  
what's right and wrong and our impulse sometimes 
to do the right thing, sometimes to do the wrong  
thing and where that comes from and how that 
all works. And I study this because I think it's  
probably the most central part of being human. 
If we didn't have a sense of right and wrong, we  
couldn't coordinate our actions. We couldn't work 
together in groups. We couldn't have families,  
have social relation, have friends. We have social 
networks that are based on promises. And to have  
a promise as the assumption that breaking a 
promise is wrong. It's based on agreements.  
And to have an agreement means the moral view 
that someone who who who renegs on an agreement  
is a bad person. Someone who who does what they're 
supposed to do is a good person. If you suddenly,  
if a virus came down and suddenly stripped away 
from humans all of our moral sense, all of our  
sense of right and wrong, we would immediately 
descend into barbarity. And so morality is central  
to making us human. I'm currently involved in 
a series of research studies right now looking  
at the nature of revenge. And we're actually have 
this study, this is with uh my my colleagues Anna  
Gatman and Jordan Wy. We're currently looking at 
this uh Reddit forum where people tell stories  
of revenge and there's hundreds of thousands of 
stories and we're using an AI to go through them  
looking at the stories of revenge and trying 
to ask what do they have in common? How do  
they differ? How do they were men more vengeful 
than women? How does uh the intensity of the bad  
act connect to the type of reprisal? What kind of 
reprisals do people do? and so on. The whole scope  
of moral life I just totally fascinates me. One 
of the great questions through our intellectual  
history is where did morality come from? How 
did we get from creatures who evolved through  
natural selection, a fundamentally selfish process 
involving a replication of genes? How did we get  
from that to creatures who help each other, 
love each other, get outraged at unfairness,  
help distant strangers and so on? This is one of 
the great questions and I think it's been mostly  
solved. And I think the answer is different parts. 
One part of the answer is that we share our genes  
with other creatures. And so natural selection 
properly understood entails that animals will  
be favored if they felt compassion and kindness to 
those who are their genetic relatives. And in this  
way parents love their children, children love 
their parents. Um that with the family network  
is is built on sort of sustained compassion 
and affection and altruism. A second part  
of the story is reciprocal altruism. You scratch 
my back, I scratch yours. You help me on Monday,  
I help you on Tuesday. And in this way, um, we 
we can get more by working together than what  
either one of us could have done individually. We 
both benefit from a system where if you are sick,  
I take care of your child and when I am sick, you 
take care of my child. Now, this system can't be  
sustained unless we have some punitive desires as 
well. Cuz what's if I help you on Tuesday and then  
Wednesday rolls around and you say, "I'm busy. I'm 
not going to do anything for you. You die." Well,  
if you would benefit from that, from that 
betrayal, then evolution, morality could never  
evolve. Kindness can never evolve. But you don't 
benefit because along with a desire to establish  
connections and desire to be kind to others, 
we've evolved a punitive impulse to punish those  
that that violate cooperative agreements. These 
two parts of the story, the family part, what's  
called kin selection, and the part that involves 
community, reciprocal altruism, work together to  
establish a fundamental moral core involving 
those we are close to. I said that in a large  
extent we solved the problem morality but there 
are mysteries. So here's a couple of them. Why do  
we care about people in far away lands? Why do we 
care about fairness sometimes fighting against the  
system that's unfair? Even if we benefit from the 
unfairness ourselves, even if we and our families  
benefit. Why are there men who fight for the 
rights of women? Why were there whites who fought  
for the rights of slaves? How do we transcend our 
biological limitations and care about people who  
are neither our genetic relatives nor people 
we are in constant contact with? I think we  
have answers to those questions. I think that once 
we have the biological foundations, other forces  
such as religion and cultural practices and often 
cold analytic reasoning cause us to expand this  
moral circle. So morality sounds like a pretty 
good thing and and it is a good thing. It's it's  
essential for everything we value. But nothing's 
entirely good. And I become interested in the last  
few years with what you could call bad morality. 
And the idea is that often our moral sense,  
our sense of right and wrong, lead us to inflict 
cruelties on other people. Our moral sense of  
retribution, which I think is essential for being 
a good person, having a good society, often goes  
out out of control and leads to terrible cases of 
vengeance. are um sexual morality which serves a  
sort of narrow biological purpose leads to 
discrimination of all sorts against sexual  
uh minorities. Our sense of um obligation 
and retribution have perverse consequences  
in everyday life. So I think morality is 99% good 
but but it also fuels some of our worst excesses  
and in some cases I think we do better if we 
dial down our moral sense. So a critic could say  
um if morality is mostly good almost entirely good 
if it's plays this role in human society I say it  
it is why would I be interested in where it goes 
ary and the answer is that where it goes ary has  
real consequences for people and I think it's part 
of the puzzle of bad behavior that's sometimes  
missed. So when you think about bad behavior, 
about people preying on one another, all the  
various cruelties that we find in everyday life, 
you might be tend to think, well, it's a lack of  
control. You know, you lose your temper. Uh you 
have this sexual desire, you attack somebody, you  
you you you have this material desire, you steal 
something. Or you might think it's selfishness,  
valuing yourself so much more than others. Or 
you might think it's um it's dehumanization. You  
fail to see others as the people they are. And I 
actually think all of those theories are right. I  
think a lot of bad behavior is caused by lack of 
control. A lot of it is caused by selfishness. A  
lot of it is caused by dehumanization. But I think 
we don't understand evil. We don't understand bad  
behavior. And this to me is the missing piece of 
the puzzle that once you appreciate that things  
that were otherwise mysterious could come clear 
and we understand we could understand better  
understand the bad behavior of other people and 
sometimes of ourselves. What's some examples  
of what I'm talking about? Well, one example is 
vengeance. We have a punitive impulse. And again,  
I think good behavior could never arise 
unless it's accompanied by some desire to  
um to punish those who who deceive, who free ride, 
who prey on others is a prerequisite. We need this  
vengeful appetite. But it can be indiscriminate. 
It can go too far. It can be shortsighted.  
There are these various studies for instance 
where you ask people you have to figure out how  
much to punish this person and it turns out that 
the extent of punishment you give them won't have  
any effect on their future behavior. People often 
say if the crime is bad enough punish the maximum  
regardless even if it doesn't make a difference. 
There's some studies done where you tell people  
about a company and this company did some sort 
of practice, bad practice and you say how much  
do you want to find a company? You could find them 
a medium amount which will cause them some harm or  
you could find them so much you'll put them out of 
business. But you tell people if you put them out  
of business it actually they provide a valuable 
product no one else provides it will actually  
cause mass harm everywhere and it will make the 
world worse. people say put them out of business,  
make them suffer. And it's hard to step back and 
think in more of a sort of costbenefit way what  
will make the world better when we're stuck with 
a retributive impulse. And then of course there's  
various cycles of violence where different 
countries, different groups go back and forth,  
each of them retaliating in righteous fury against 
what they perceive as the wrong of wrongs of  
others. I don't want to get political, but nobody 
could look at the Middle East and not see this.  
You look at the various things back and forth 
say between Hamas, between Israel, between Gaza,  
and there's at no point where one of the sides 
saying, "Ha, I'm going to do some evil. I'm an  
evil person. I'm going to kill innocent people." 
That's not how it works. Each of the sides when  
they do their acts that other people view probably 
rightly as monstrous say to themselves, "I'm doing  
the right thing. I am responding against this 
violence that has been done against my people.  
I am I am doing something righteous in the eyes 
of God. It is humbling but important to recognize  
that very few villains think of themselves as 
villains and retributive actions always feel  
great when you're doing them. Not just not just in 
a visceral way, but great by morally righteous and  
but they make the world worse. And I think in some 
sense if we could turn down the dial of morality,  
we would do better if after you do this 
terrible thing to me, I say to myself,  
well, what's the best thing to do? What will 
best cause peace and everything? Rather than  
thinking the right thing to do is to make you 
pay the world will be better off as a whole.  
The psychologist Kirk Gray and his colleagues uh 
come up with a nice term called moral typ casting.  
And this refers to another problem with our moral 
thinking, which is that we tend to put people into  
one of two categories. They're villains or they're 
victims. And we fail to see that in a real world,  
most people are either neither or both. That that 
often you could be you can be both. People say in  
uh the Middle East conflict, each side views 
themselves as a victim of terrible actions by  
others, retaliating righteously. Democrats and 
Republicans, liberals and conservatives in the  
United States and elsewhere, see themselves, you 
know, always as victimized by the cruel policies  
of others, wishing that their tormentors would 
suffer or at best go go away. The real world  
doesn't work like that. But if you say, "I refuse 
to listen because they got to be villains. I will  
refuse to accept anything else." I think I think 
you're you're you're succumbing to a bias in moral  
thinking. It also leads once you realize that 
you're either a victim or or a villain. Um, it  
also leads to what's called competitive victimhood 
where different individuals and different groups  
are scrambling to get themselves anointed to 
victim level. Um, in which case they could do  
whatever they want and they're excused for their 
their bad acts. This happens in the global sense.  
It also happens even in even in cultural wars that 
we have. So, who's the victim? the female athletes  
who don't want trans women to compete with them or 
trans women who are excluded from competing with  
female athletes. Who's the victim? Somebody who 
has uh uh views and are forbidden from speaking  
or students who are forced to hear views they 
don't want. You get this back and forth. Who's the  
victim? There is a fight for victim status. And 
you have the first to point out this is kind of  
a dumb way to do things. A better way to do things 
would be to acknowledge these are difficult issues  
and you have to take into account multiple views 
and there's psychological research on the effects  
of perceiving oneself as a victim and it doesn't 
make you any nicer. It actually has the opposite  
effect. There are studies that find people are 
reminded of their victimhood they become more  
callous towards others particularly those who 
they believe have caused them to suffer. There  
are studies that find that being seen as a victim 
makes you less generous towards others. After all,  
if I'm suffering, why should I help others? 
Someone else should help. I'm I'm the victim here.  
If you're a victim or a villain, moral judgment 
becomes a zero- sum game. There's no space in  
uh all or nothing framework to look at people in 
terms of competing interest, costbenefit analyses.  
you're not going to understand what's going on 
and you're not going to be able to productively  
enact compromises between groups with different 
priorities. A more psychologically accurate way  
of thinking about things and a more mature way is 
that it's not that that it's not that everything  
is a compromise and there's no sense in which one 
side, you know, it's not like nobody's ever right,  
but what you have to know is that everybody 
thinks they're right. Nobody thinks they're the  
baddies. And because of this um it it it this is 
something that has to be transcended in order to  
um to to foster dialogue to bring peace to 
make the world a bit a bit better and more  
reasonable. At first when I say look morality is 
actually a source of a lot of evil and bad stuff  
in the world people are a little bit surprised. 
But it's not hard to make a persuasive case.  
just about everybody who's involved in a war in 
the past um thought they were the good guys and  
uh it's only later in sort of through through the 
distance of history we could get a sense of who's  
right and who's wrong it's more difficult I admit 
to extend this view right now take something from  
the news as I'm I'm talking about this uh Luigi 
Manion who murdered a healthc care CEO is now  
going on trial and he has a lot of people who 
adore for him. Now, he's a good-looking guy.  
I mean, get some some there's sort of an appeal. 
Maybe it's seen as transgressive behavior. But I  
think a lot of a lot of these people thought that 
uh what he did was right, that these large healthc  
care institutions are do terrible damage to people 
and are cruel institutions. And the murder of the  
CEO was a good act. I find that a repellent view 
myself. But I would be naive if I didn't recognize  
that others disagree with me and that their their 
disagreement is motivated by a moral sense that's  
just as intense as my moral sense. I am not 
advocating for a world without retribution.  
I actually think retribution is essential to have 
a world that's good. If you and I are cooperating  
and we're working together and there's a community 
of people working together, we all benefit from  
this. But you know who really benefits? Somebody 
who just takes just takes what we have and doesn't  
give anything in return. And if that's unchecked, 
everyone will be like that. There'll be no benefit  
to kindness, no benefit for cooperation. So 
along with a cooperative and loving instinct,  
we've evolved retributive instincts, retributive 
desires. And this is how good behavior continues.  
So I'm not against that. I'm not against 
the desire to to strike back at bad people  
because by striking back at bad people, a the 
bad people will stop being bad to some extent.  
You disincentivize it and b it discourages bad 
actions on the part of others. I am against an  
appetite for revenge that runs out of control. One 
of the problems with our punitive desires and this  
is an issue with emotions more generally is they 
could become unmed from the purposes that they  
serve. So the the the purposes of deterrence is a 
legitimate purpose. But often we want revenge now  
in cases where it doesn't do any good. Often we 
want excessive revenge. We want terrible revenge.  
We want people to suffer where their suffering 
does no benefit but just satisfies a certain itch  
within ourselves. So I would keep our retributive 
desires. If I if I was, you know, an all powerful  
god and could fiddle with people's brains, I 
would keep our retributive desires, but I'd  
hold them more in check. And of course, this is 
what a legal system does. If somebody breaks into  
my car and steals stuff, I'm not allowed to go 
up to them and murder them and kill their family  
because the law says, "Look, that's a crime. We're 
going to punish it, but we have what we view as  
an appropriate response." It takes it away from 
individuals. And I think there's a rationality to  
this. I think there's a rationality to offloading 
our individual appetite for revenge, giving to the  
state. Ideally, and we're very far from ideal, 
but ideally then administering it in a fair way.
Want to support the channel? Join the Big Think  
Members community where you get 
access to videos early and free.