Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today we are going to talk about how to read and learn efficiently
That was in the last video.
We mainly emphasize the principle
Just Read
Personal experience should be the highest principle
The free generation of human experience
Above all established disciplinary frameworks and moral standards
Even if he learned from a book
The interpretation is inconsistent with the author's intention
Even if the text he reads
Not so politically correct
Or morally questionable
But as long as this text gave him a new understanding
It inspired him to have a deeper understanding of himself and the world.
It's all worth encouraging
This principle applies not only to reading
It’s in our experience of everything.
In the private sphere
We should remove ourselves
Everything Between Experience Review Standards
Regardless of this experience
How superficial it seems by worldly standards
All are worth exploring and digging
As we said in our video on May 3rd
If we think
Certain inner experiences are inherently immoral
Wicked
Therefore, it is not worthy of being accepted and explored.
Then the idea itself
It is strengthening the defense mechanism of dissociation and splitting.
turn out
The person can only rely on guilt, shame and fear
To ensure your own morality
But this just undermines the foundation and premise of morality
That is consistent free will.
As we have repeatedly emphasized
What is really scarce is not profound and correct texts
Rather, it is the interpretive resources and abilities of the experience
In the eyes of a good educator
Any text
In fact, there is a lot of room for interpretation.
As long as students are interested in any text or phenomenon
Genuinely interested
Educators can use guidance and dialogue to
From it we can explore and interpret
Inspiring content
So today's show
Let's discuss
How to practice this kind of conversational learning
In fact, in the previous show
We have mentioned more than once
The centrality of dialogue in learning and reading
For example, Socrates' dialogue is like this
He does not impart knowledge directly.
By constantly asking questions
Guide the interlocutor to discover the hidden knowledge within
Socrates believed
Education is not indoctrination
But midwifery
That is to bring knowledge out of the soul.
Plato therefore believed
The reason why knowledge can be derived from a person's consciousness is
Emerge
Because before this
The knowledge was already latent in his soul.
In this teaching concept
Students are the main body of learning
The teacher is just a guide and feedback provider.
His role is to develop a framework
Provide a safe atmosphere
Enable students to explore
Without preconception or judgment
Feedback on students’ thoughts and experiences
Such an ideal purely spiritual interlocutor
It plays a crucial role in a person's learning.
Let's make a rough analogy.
This interlocutor
Similar to
A radar station capable of receiving and amplifying signals
People often think
Learning is pure internal thinking
But the real understanding -
Especially about the understanding of self and emotional experience
Always need to send a signal first
Then it is received and responded to
Finally, I can hear myself again
This other should have two conditions
First
He can feedback our signals in time.
Rather than swallowing or not responding
second
He can accurately and undistort our signals.
Able to tune in and resonate with us
Modern psychology also believes this
That is, discuss with children more
Feeling can significantly promote children's reflective function
Ability to encode experiences
That is, textualization and linguisticization
It is the key to the development of mentalization ability
This language ability
Initially, only feedback from caregivers can be obtained
Securely attached children
Can discuss many issues with mother fluently
Can play jokes together
Avoidant children
The content of the conversation with the mother is quite limited
This attachment style
To a large extent
Can predict the future growth and development of the client
It should be noted that
What we mean by language communication here
A purely spiritual
See each other's communication
Rather than for a specific and practical purpose
Take an example
A little child cried
His mother might ask him
Did you pee?
Then mom might go straight to changing the diaper
But the more sensitive caregivers
In addition to considering the above scenarios
We will also consider the child's feelings.
And realize that this feeling itself needs to be seen
Not related to physiological needs
For example, a caregiver might ask:
Do you feel your butt is wet?
Do you feel like you've been alone for too long?
The difference between these two questions is
A person who only focuses on external physiological needs
The other is clearly aware
People also have a purely spiritual need
It is a kind of desire beyond physiological needs.
Hope your thoughts and feelings
The need to simply be perceived by others
With the help of such an idealized intermediary
Children can recognize
What are my inner experiences?
What is external reality?
This ability to distinguish seems simple.
That’s actually a pretty high requirement.
As we said in our video on May 3rd
Many people can't do this.
In many cases
They will express the emotions and ideas that arise in their hearts.
Directly equivalent to
External Behavior and Reality
Stuck in a psychological equivalence mode
It means temporarily losing the inner world.
Distinguishing between external reality
Directly project your inner feelings onto the outside world
Lost this sense of boundaries
I also lost this experience
The ability to reinterpret and reinterpret
This can actually be attributed to
In the process of growth
Lack of a good feedback provider
Lack of response signal
Like a stone thrown into the sea
Over time
We question whether our feelings are real.
Is it worth listening to?
I even doubt whether I still exist.
In some people who have self-harm and self-abuse behaviors
We can all find
The person involved is often in a state of loneliness for a long time.
Or even in interpersonal relationships
But it is not valued and seen
So self-harming behavior
In fact, the parties involved adopted extreme methods
To strengthen the sense of self-existence
Another harm caused by lack of dialogue and feedback is
The client has no one else to help him reconstruct the experience
Can only repeat the existing troubles
Going around in circles in old language and cognitive frameworks
Unable to progress and iterate
So we say
This kind of dialogue
It can help a person discover himself better in a conversation.
See Yourself
Discovering oneself
It is actually about discovering your own richness.
Complexity and uniqueness
Because of one person
Becoming more aware of your own different experiences
A combination of these experiences
Like a unique code
When the length of this code accumulates to a certain extent
It constitutes a person's unique personality
They not only describe who I am
It also reveals "How I became who I am"
This code is not given.
But to be understood, responded to,
It was gradually formed during the naming process.
The longer the coding of this experience accumulates,
The more delicate
The more secure and unique the individual's sense of self is
From this point of view
We say that in Chinese culture
There is no such dialogue.
Although there is dialogue in traditional Chinese culture
For example, the conversation between Confucius and his disciples, etc.
But this kind of dialogue is not respectful to each other
As the ultimate subject of generating knowledge and truth
It does not enable learners to see themselves.
Discover your role
It is the learner's self
Integration and conversion
to a pre-set
Ethical Entity
for example
Confucius said, "If you are not angry, you will not be enlightened; if you are not frustrated, you will not speak out."
Meaning
Only when students are eager to know
When I still can't figure out what I'm thinking about
Inspire him and enlighten him
The inspiration here
It is an external inspiration from teachers to students.
But the knowledge itself
Still owned by the saints and unquestionable
Students are just passively waiting for enlightenment
Confucius also proposed the educational idea of ​​teaching students in accordance with their aptitude.
This seems to emphasize
Teaching should be based on students’ cognitive characteristics
But this is only flexibility at the path and method level.
The ultimate goal of education
It is still the principle of letting students practice loyalty and filial piety
Mencius' understanding of learning and education is:
A gentleman only reflects on the classics
If the classics are correct, the people will prosper;
When the common people prosper, there will be no evil.
that is
A gentleman only needs to return, realize,
Just stick to the classics
The goal of learning is not innovation and generation
But return
As long as the rites and laws can be promoted
Society will prosper
People’s hearts will be restored
Morality can be maintained
In Mencius's view
The Way of the Sage is the Truth Discovered in History
Not in the future, not generated in experience
But in the past
The inheritance of the holy way relies on "knowing by hearing"
That is, relying on texts and teachers
and "see and know"
That is to imitate the two ways of contemporary saints.
Rather than starting from your own experience
To construct and generate
That's it.
Some people might say
What you admire
This kind of learning based on dialogue and feedback
Only suitable for subjects that require a lot of experience
Such as literature, art, psychology
We do need to see our inner experiences.
So for some more objective subjects
For example, physics, mathematics
For example, some technologies
Is this also necessary?
The answer is of course yes
We say
Any learning requires us to see ourselves
And seeing yourself definitely requires dialogue
We must take all science and knowledge
Study them all as spiritual science
It is a process of self-exploration.
In this sense
Physics is essentially a spiritual science
Because when we understand an external concept
It is not simply observing the objective world.
It is about observing your own thinking and cognitive structure.
Popular Materialism in China
I prefer to assume an absolutely objective world.
It regards "objectivity" as some kind of entity that has nothing to do with people
Objectivity means science, authority, and standard answers
But this understanding cannot answer Hume's question
As Kant argued in the Critique of Pure Reason
It is not that our understanding should adapt to the object
Rather, the object must conform to our cognitive ability.
To be experienced
Therefore, self-awareness plays a role in everything
No knowledge can escape the dynamism of self-consciousness
These are the twelve categories mentioned by Kant.
Causation, quantity, entity, relationship
The categories on which these sciences are based
Not from the outside world
But our intellect a priori
Organizational methods based on experience
When we study science
Not touching the thing-in-itself
But in understanding
How does human rationality work through concepts?
To model the world
Therefore, the view that
The view that subjective experience belongs only to art and literature
In fact, it is a misunderstanding of the true meaning of "spirituality"
Think about why a logic is valid
Why an experiment works
How a concept is born
It is a profound spiritual experience in itself
As we said before
All knowledge is about self-awareness
The value of conversational learning lies in
It gives us the opportunity to
Keep looking back at "Who am I?"
How my understanding is organized,
Where is my blind spot?
Then such an interlocutor
How to find it in reality?
In reality
It is difficult for people to find a stable and patient
A knowledgeable interlocutor
Even if I could find such a person
There is also a high cost to achieve this kind of communication
AI is getting closer and closer to this ideal state.
Although
AI does not have human emotions and self-awareness
It will never replace humans.
But it can be used in our exploration of ourselves
and learning process
Playing a supporting role
It is compared with intelligent humans
There are indeed too many limitations
But at least it won't criticize or deny people.
This is better than the interpersonal relationships of many people in real life.
Much better.
A non-judgmental environment that AI can provide
Learners can freely try and make mistakes.
Association and expression
This atmosphere
It is a source of psychological security.
In real human interaction
We often have problems such as time, distance, and emotions.
It is difficult to obtain high-quality responses consistently
One of the great advantages of AI is
It can respond at any time and never get tired
Can continuously iterate to accompany you to think
Although it is not as smart as humans
Possess real insight and value judgment
But its average
Still far more than most casual acquaintances responded
And you can keep teaching it
Feed it text, set style, point out errors
This “training dialogue” itself is also a kind of meta-learning
Some people say AI only caters to humans
Follow your words
If you rely on it to make decisions and judge
It reinforces your prejudices
Even lead you down the wrong path
But I think
This concern
In fact, it is due to a lack of understanding of the function and positioning of AI
AI is never a judge
Nor is it the ultimate arbiter of value.
Its core function is to stimulate association,
Clarify thoughts, organize language,
Feedback Structure
You shouldn't treat him as
A teacher who is always right
Instead, you should treat him as someone who can accompany you in thinking,
Tools for you to see yourself
The true judgment and decision always belongs to you
This is a bit like an ancient Greek temple.
The Greeks walked in reverently
Temple of Apollo in Delphi
Pray for an oracle
But they received from the priests
Often ambiguous predictions
The real “answer”
It was people who learned from the oracle
Projecting your own wishes and fears
So as to see oneself
People ultimately make their own choices.
certainly
AI often fabricates false information
This is because the current mainstream large language model
Based on probability
Generate content by predicting the likelihood of the next word
Rather than based on real understanding
So if we rely on AI-generated knowledge
As a final conclusion
Then it's bound to go wrong
But if we use AI as a conversationalist
And we provide
Mainly reviewed materials and texts
Ask it to help us analyze, summarize and question
We can maximize
Its organizational and analytical abilities
and avoid its mistakes at the factual level
That's all for today's video
Next episode
We will talk about the technical aspects
How to use AI to write diaries and take notes
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!