My name is Sam Kean. I am the author of several 
books and my latest book is "Dinner with King  
Tut." How rogue archaeologists are recreating 
the sight, sounds, smells, and tastes of lost  
civilizations. Part 1. Bringing Ancient History 
to Life Chapter 1. Resurrecting Ancient Practices  
If you're thinking of Indiana Jones, traditional 
archaeology is not that. It's things buried in the  
ground that you have to dig up, put in context, 
and try to piece together the past. Brushing  
off little pot shards and bits of bone with 
toothbrushes. Day after day, hour after hour.  
Traditional archaeology is very good about what 
the past looked like. So they can tell you there  
was a wall here, there was a building over here. 
You get a good general sense of the landscape and  
probably the range of materials that an ancient 
civilization was using. But what I was lacking was  
all of the other senses. What did the past sound 
like? What did it taste like? What did it smell  
like? So you can imagine how excited I was when I 
discovered experimental archaeology. Experimental  
archaeologists make and do things. They try to 
recreate the past in all sorts of different ways.  
Whether it be making ancient recipes and foods, 
stone tools, ancient medicines, building ships and  
heading out into the ocean. All sorts of things 
that involve resurrecting the past. If you have  
deep knowledge about how to do something or how 
to make something, you're going to ask different,  
better questions about it and have a better eye 
about what to look for, the range of things people  
might have used, stuff like that. And another 
thing experimental archaeology can do is help  
us solve some of the great mysteries of the past. 
How did they actually build the pyramids in Egypt?  
How did they erect those giant statues on Easter 
Island? Human beings? How did we hunt ancient  
creatures, big packadearms and things like that? 
Experimental archaeology can help us get at those  
questions. For this book, I attended an authentic 
Roman banquet and ate strange foods of all kinds,  
everything from caterpillars to walruses. I spent 
a day out in Utah with a guy who built a 30-foot  
catapult, and we spent an afternoon hurling these 
giant stone boulders around the river. I got to  
give and get my very first tattoo. I got to fire 
a medieval cannon. I got to try my hand at ancient  
neurosurgery and all sorts of other projects. One 
thing I really like about experimental archaeology  
is the range of people that are involved in doing 
it. In some cases, you have sort of hardcore lab  
geeks that are in a lab collecting data, just sort 
of like a traditional scientist would. In other  
cases, you have archaeologists who fell in love 
with some ancient civilization, and they wanted  
to connect with it on a deeper level. They figured 
there was no other way to do that except to go out  
and try to recreate certain aspects of the past. 
You also have indigenous communities, who in a  
lot of cases have kept these traditions alive for 
thousands and thousands of years. Often they are  
the ones actually teaching archaeologists about 
this material. It's really a two-way street with  
these groups where they are the ones imparting 
their knowledge to the scholars and academics.  
Then you can go all the way to sort of these 
grouchy survivalists who live out in the woods,  
but they've picked up tricks or tricks have 
been passed down to them and they have a lot  
of knowledge, some cases implicit knowledge, that 
you just don't get from armchair archaeology. In  
some cases, they've actually rewritten what we 
know about archaeology because they brought to  
bear their own knowledge on the field and showed 
the experts where they were wrong. So imagine your  
person in Africa 75,000 years ago. You're a bit 
nomadic, you probably travel around from place  
to place, maybe spend a few weeks sleeping in a 
cave. But caves have hard dirt floors, not very  
comfortable, so you're going to have to make a bed 
of some sort. Also, your main activity is probably  
going to be gathering food and water, so you would 
have a canteen of some sort to carry water around,  
probably made from an ostrich egg. And then to 
get ready to find food that day, you're going  
to have to make your own tools and go out on a 
hunt. So let's start with the bets. The first  
thing you would do is you would spread a bunch of 
debris around in the cave and you would light it  
on fire. It would burn, that's going to clean the 
cave out, but also importantly, leave a nice soft  
layer of ash. That's essentially going to be 
your mattress. Then you're going to go out and  
gather some plants, aromatic leaves especially. 
You're going to lay those down as sort of a top  
sheet on that layer of ash. So this is going to be 
fairly comfortable because ash is nice and soft,  
sort of like sleeping on the beach. And people 
have actually recreated these beds and have slept  
in them overnight and they said that they were 
in fact pretty comfortable. It also had another  
benefit in that the ash kept away ticks. Insects 
were a big problem for people thousands of years  
ago. They didn't have repellent, they didn't have 
ways of keeping them off. So having a nice ash  
layer on the ground prevented ticks from burrowing 
up and locking onto your legs. I taught to a woman  
who actually gathered a bunch of ticks, put them 
in the center of a nice ring of ash and then  
watched what they did. The ticks tried to burrow 
through the ash. Most of them did not make it out,  
they died part way through. And the ones that did 
make it through the ash, their mouth parts ended  
up so gummed that they couldn't bite anyone 
afterward. So the ash also provided a way to  
prevent ticks from biting your legs. And then 
the top layer of the leaves, they were usually  
aromatic leaves that kept mosquitoes away. So in 
addition to providing comfort, this bed also kept  
away parasites that can annoy you and spread 
diseases. So when you get up in the morning,  
you're probably thirsty. And if you're in this 
cave, you're going to reach for your water  
receptacle, which will be an ostrich egg canteen. 
Ostrich eggs are usually pretty large and they're  
usually pretty thick and dense. So what they would 
do is they would take a stone tool and they would  
saw the top of the ostrich egg open, usually 
make a little square or something like that.  
They would pour the insides of the eggs out and 
then they would clean it out with some aromatic  
herbs, wash it and then you have a nice little 
canteen. For the book, I actually bought an  
ostrich egg online and tried these steps myself. I 
got to cook the ostrich egg in a big old skillet.  
Parts of it were delicious. The yolk was this 
amazingly rich sort of caramelly egg flavor.  
It was delicious. I love that part. The whites 
were less good, little runny, kind of foamy,  
not my favorite, but you know, they weren't 
horrible. And then after I had cut open the top  
of the ostrich egg with the stone tool, I washed 
it out and used it to hold water. It held about  
six cups of water and one really cool thing about 
ostrich eggs is that they're slightly porous. Not  
so much the water is going to leak out of it, 
but microscopically, there are tiny little pores  
in the ostrich egg that let water escape from it. 
Evaporation cools it so it keeps the water colder  
than the ambient temperature. So an ostrich egg 
is actually a self-cooling canteen. So after you  
get your nice drink of water, you're probably 
going to start on one of the main activities of  
the day, which is making stone tools. For this, 
you're probably going to use churte or flint,  
a very hard rock that fractures very cleanly. 
This is an example of a stone that you might try  
to make a tool out of. So you're going to hold it 
in your lap like this. Then you're going to take  
another stone called a hammer stone and you're 
going to drop it on to this tool. So imagine  
my fist here is the hammer stone. Usually they're 
sort of potato shaped, kind of big and oblong and  
very smooth on the outside. So you would take 
the hammer stone and you would drop it down on  
the very edge of this stone. And you're not going 
to smash it down, you know, like really pound it  
on there. It's more of a controlled drop to just 
strike the edge of it. So you take it in your lap,  
you would drop it down and then a piece would come 
off. And you can see how nice and clean this edge  
is. It's not going to shatter like a pot or 
something like that. And you're going to get  
a nice edge here and you can use this piece and 
refine it more, you know, maybe get rid of this,  
make a little smaller tool. And this is an example 
of something that you might be able to make if you  
were a master footnapper. You can see a nice 
little head there on this little spear that I  
have. You can also see how it's half dead to this 
wooden shaft. So this would be animal sinew. So  
from a tendon, a legament, something like that, 
you would pound that out, you would separate the  
fibers and use it to wrap around and half dead to 
this shaft. Then you would dribble resin probably  
from a tree that you would gather, you'd warm it 
up and you would dribble it around there to act as  
glue essentially to really bind it to this spear. 
And then you have a nice little hunting tool that  
you can use. One coveted material in ancient times 
was obsidian, like you can see here. It's a black  
volcanic rock. And if you strike it properly, you 
can get extremely sharp flakes from it. Flakes  
that are sharper actually than modern steel scalp. 
They're extremely, extremely sharp. And those are  
dangerous. I actually cut myself with obsidian at 
one point accidentally. And I was surprised that I  
didn't notice how deep the cut went. It was right 
across my arm. And unlike a paper cut, it did not  
hurt at all because that edge was so sharp. But it 
immediately started bleeding all over the place.  
I was surprised how quickly things got bad with 
it. I had to wrap it up pretty quickly. And you  
can imagine if this was 75,000 years ago and 
you had cut yourself like that, it could get  
pretty dangerous pretty quickly. They didn't have 
antibiotics. There was no hospital to run to. So  
however important napping tools was, it was also 
a dangerous occupation. Now let's jump forward in  
time to ancient Egypt in the 2000s BC. You get up 
in the morning and you're going to want some food.  
You're probably going to grab some bread and some 
beer. Then you're going to go about your day. This  
was the era when they were making the pyramids. 
You would actually get to see them as they're  
being constructed. You might also go and talk to 
someone who was making actual mummies. It was a  
very big industry in Egypt at the time and odds 
are good. You would know someone who was working  
on those kind of things. One real delight in the 
book was the chance to recreate lost recipes and  
eat foods that people would have eaten thousands 
of years ago. In Egypt especially, I found the  
food absolutely delicious. Bread was really the 
main food that Egyptians ate. They're staple food.  
And I got to meet someone who actually recreated 
an Egyptian style loaf of bread in his backyard.  
He was a bit fanatical about it. He went over to 
Egypt. He cultured the yeast that they would have  
used way back then. He sourced some heirloom 
grains to make this bread. He even got the  
right type of wood that they would have used in 
Egypt for the fire pit in his backyard. Then he  
had some friends make a conical mold the way that 
they would have in ancient Egypt. And he cooked  
this bread in his backyard and let me try some 
of it. And I have to say this was the best loaf  
of bread I have ever eaten in my life. It was so 
delicious. It was very simple recipe, however. It  
was just emmer the grain that they used for flour. 
Emmer, coriander, salt, yeast, and that's it. The  
taste of it was delicious, perfectly balanced, a 
nice springy crust on the outside. And the bread  
that I ate was two days old and we had warmed it 
up in the company microwave. If I had gotten this  
bread fresh out of the ground, it would have been 
absolutely delicious. It would have drawn braves  
in any bistro in New York or Paris I'm convinced. 
The other treat from ancient Egypt was getting to  
make Egyptian style beer. They used emmer as the 
main grain in there with some barley mixed it. And  
it tasted a little different from modern beer that 
we think of because they didn't use hops in the  
beer. Hopps imparts a bitter flavor to beer. And 
without the hops, it actually tasted a lot more  
like a sour beer that you might get today. Which 
makes a lot of sense if you think about it. They  
were out there in the sun dragging blocks around 
the sun beating down on them. You want something  
a little sour it quenches the thirst. These were 
a lot closer to a kambucha than they were to what  
we think of as a beer. One surprising fact about 
ancient Egypt is that we have no idea how they  
built their most iconic structures, the pyramids. 
There's a lot of information available about  
ancient Egypt and their writings and the hydro 
glyphs and pictures on the walls but they really  
did not address how they built their pyramids. So 
it's been a big mystery for thousands of years at  
this point. And experimental archaeology has not 
solved this mystery but it can do a lot in ruling  
out certain theories about how the pyramids were 
built. One important thing that they have ruled  
out is that ramps were probably not that useful 
in building the pyramids. You can imagine a big  
ramp to the top of the pyramid pushing a block up 
it maybe on a log roller or something like that.  
But in experiments that has failed completely. 
However nice log rollers look on paper they do  
not work well in the real world. They're not 
uniform they slip all over the place. It's a  
pain to get the log rollers at the back run them 
around to the front when you're holding a five  
ton block trying to push that up a hill. It's a 
real hassle to do that. And there are even big  
problems with the very idea of using a ramp. If 
you look at a pyramid make a scale sized pyramid  
and then start piling material up in front of it. 
You realize pretty quick that these ramps need to  
be incredibly long. Maybe even a mile or a mile 
and a half long to get all the way to the top of  
the pyramid. They also have to be incredibly broad 
because the material you might use sand cannot  
form a nice steep wall. So in building this ramp 
you're probably going to have to use as much or  
more material as you're putting into the pyramid 
itself. They probably use technology of some sort  
to winch or drag them up instead of just pushing 
them up a ramp. Mummies are one of the most  
iconic aspects of ancient Egypt. But we really 
don't know a lot of details about how they made  
mummies because they didn't record a lot of this 
information. Either they were trying to keep it  
a secret or it was just passed down from person 
to person and no one bothered writing it down.  
So even though we have a lot of mummies from 
ancient times we didn't know a lot of the details.  
And experimental archaeology turned out to be 
a really good way to investigate the process of  
mummification. Now a lot of scientists have looked 
at animal mummies. A lot of people don't realize  
it but the Egyptians mummified a lot more than 
just human beings. In fact they mummified millions  
upon millions of animals. There are graveyards 
in Egypt with 4 million dogs in it or 7 million  
birds. They really were creating these animal 
mummies on an industrial scale. So by making these  
mummies in modern times scientists can learn a lot 
about the overall process. And there have been a  
few rogue archaeologists who decided to make 
an Egyptian style human mummy in modern times.  
It was quite a controversial project. It took 
place in the 1990s in Baltimore with two people.  
One was an anatomist and one was an Egyptologist. 
Even though they got a lot of pushback from other  
archaeologists from bioethicist people like that 
they said this was a very important problem and  
they wanted to go forward to answer some of these 
mysteries. So someone had donated their body to  
science and they decided to use it to make this 
mummy. And the person I talked to for the book  
Bob Breyer actually went over to Egypt and he dug 
out the mineral that they were going to use as a  
drying agent in the body. So he was very committed 
to authenticity here. He also had a series of  
stone tools made, some from a bacidian or other 
stones, some from copper and they actually used  
that on the body to open it up. They had to 
open up a little hole to get the organs out,  
to dry those out. And then once they had the 
organs out they had to wash the inner cavity  
and then use the mineral that he had found in 
Egypt to dry the body out. And that mineral  
was a mix of baking soda and salt, a mineral 
called natron. And you can actually make some  
at home if you want. I did this in my home with a 
fish and actually mummified a fish. It was very,  
very easy to do. We think traditionally about a 
fish as being one of the smelliest animals out  
there. But I brought this fish home, never put 
it in refrigerator. I just put it in a casserole  
dish, put this baking soda and salt mixture over 
it, and a week or two later I had a perfect fish  
mummy. Then I wrapped it up in linen just like 
they did with the Egyptian mummies and it's  
still sitting on my counter today. And by making 
a human mummy they learned a lot about the process  
and solve some of the mysteries. One was how much 
natron you would even need to do this. They ended  
up meeting several hundred pounds of this. Another 
mystery was how long does it take? Ended up taking  
them about 70 days or so to make a human mummy. 
They had to change the natron in a few times but  
overall that's about how long it took. And one 
of the big mysteries that they wanted to solve  
was when we find an Egyptian mummy today, you can 
see the very weathered skin. It's usually changed  
color, gotten a little darker, the hair is very 
wispy and the skin is retracted on the face, kind  
of pulling back like this. And they wanted to know 
well was it the mummification process that had  
done that or the fact that they were sitting in a 
dry environment in Egypt for thousands of years.  
And even after four or five weeks with the human 
mummy in modern times, they realized that it was  
the mummification process that was doing this. The 
person I talked to, they cracked open the crust,  
looked at the mummy and he sort of gasped and he 
said, "Oh my God, this looks exactly like Ramses  
the Great from Egypt." He was stunned that in just 
a few weeks they had recreated an Egyptian style  
mummy. Now let's jump forward in time again to 
the ancient Roman Empire of around 180. You live  
outside the city in Avila and you're going to walk 
in along a Roman road. You're going to get into  
the city and you're going to get your hair done. 
You have a big ball that night and you want to  
impress some people. And after sitting there for 
a few hours of getting your hair done, you get  
a little hungry. So you go around the corner, 
you're dodging all of the filth in the street  
and you walk up to a little sidewalk stall and you 
order yourself a meal. One of the main ingredients  
in that road and in some ways one of the secrets 
of Roman architecture is the amazing concrete that  
they made. Concrete isn't really sexy material 
but the way the Romans made concrete has allowed  
a lot of their buildings, bridges and roads to 
stand even to this day. And archaeologists, when  
they would look at Roman concrete, they always 
thought they had made a bit of a mistake when  
making it. And that one of the big ingredients in 
concrete is a substance called quick lime. You mix  
it with water and it helps form a glue to bind 
the concrete together. And when archaeologists  
looked at Roman concrete, they would find big 
undigested lumps of quick lime in there. And  
they thought this was a mistake. You can imagine 
a loaf of bread in modern times. If you bid in and  
found a chunk of raw flour in there, you would 
think, "Okay, the baker didn't mix the flour as  
well as they should have." Archaeologists had the 
same sort of thought with the Roman concrete. They  
thought they made a mistake. But it turns out 
that that was not a mistake and actually was a  
key feature of Roman concrete. Modern concrete 
is quite good, quite strong, but it's prone to  
cracking. And once a crack starts, cracks widen 
very quickly. But with Roman concrete, a few  
archaeologists at MIT recreated some of it and 
they found something very interesting with this  
concrete. With normal concrete, when water gets 
in there, it freezes, it expands it, it can crack  
it apart. With Roman concrete, when water got 
in there, it would find these undigested chunks  
of quick lime and react with them and actually 
create a substance that filled the space. So it  
was essentially self-healing concrete. And because 
of that feature of their concrete, it strengthened  
it over time and actually allowed it to stand 
much longer than modern concrete does. One of my  
favorite people to talk to for the book was Janet 
Stevens of Baltimore. Stevens is a hairdresser,  
has no formal training in archaeology. She was 
at a museum and something intrigued her. She saw  
several busts of Roman matrons there and she 
as a hairdresser noticed their amazing hair.  
And she was especially interested in the backs of 
their hair because, you know, as a hairdresser,  
that's the part she's usually looking at. And she 
saw that these busts had these amazing hairstyles,  
these mountains of curls, these spirals around 
their hair. And she thought, "Wow, I want to go  
and try to recreate these hairstyles." So she 
went home, she had a few modeling dummies with  
hair on them that she uses to practice. Despite 
being an expert professional stylist, she could  
not recreate these hairstyles even with all the 
modern tools at her disposal. And she got curious  
and she thought, "Well, how did they actually make 
this hair then?" So she went to the archaeological  
literature and the classics literature, 
started looking up papers about Roman beauty,  
Roman hair styling. And she quickly realized that 
the people who wrote these articles had no idea  
what they were talking about. Just the way they 
would describe hair, the physics of hair, how to  
move it, how to pile it up, how to sculpt it, they 
didn't know what they were talking about. And so  
she decided, "Well, if someone's going to solve 
this mystery, it's going to be me." One obstacle  
to her solving this mystery was that she did not 
read Latin at all. In fact, she had failed Latin  
when she took it in school. But she was motivated 
this time. So she started tediously typing pages  
of Latin text into Google Translate line by line 
to try to figure out if she could find some clue  
as to how they made this hair. And a few years 
finally, into this project, she was typing yet  
another line into Google Translate and the penny 
dropped. She read a line about the needle that the  
tailor and the hairdresser used. And she realized, 
"Aha! They weren't sculpting this hair and pinning  
it up with bobby pins or bodkins or something like 
that. They were actually sewing people's hair into  
place using a needle and thread." After that, she 
went home, tried it out with a needle and thread,  
and was suddenly able to recreate any one of the 
hairstyles she wanted. And this hairdresser from  
Baltimore, who had no experience in archaeology, 
was able to actually publish a paper that  
revolutionized the field. And she's now one of the 
world's leading experts on Roman beauty and Roman  
hair styling. Roman food has always had a very bad 
reputation, mostly because of one ingredient that  
the Romans use in almost every dish that they 
made, a sauce called garum. For a long time,  
garum was translated as rotten fish sauce, as 
if they had taken a fish, let it decompose, and  
then squeezed the putra juices out and just dumped 
that all over their food. And as you can imagine,  
people thought that must have been disgusting. 
That sounds terrible. Why would you eat this food  
drenched in putrid fish sauce? And that sentiment 
prevailed until modern times when a few people who  
actually wore cooks or chefs read about the 
process of making it and they said, "Wait a  
second. This isn't rotten fish sauce. It's just 
fermentation. That's all they were doing. They  
were fermenting it under controlled circumstances, 
actually breaking the muscle of the fish down and  
producing a sauce that way." An equivalent in 
modern times is Thai fish sauce. People use that  
all the time and cooking, maybe even sprinkle 
a little bit on your food. It's a very common  
ingredient. And once people realize this, they 
realize it was actually a very versatile dish  
that you could use in a lot of meals. It has 
a nice umami flavor to it so that savoriness  
that you get with protein has a lot of salt in it 
too. So you can add a dash to kind of brighten a  
dish up. And the Romans loved it so much, this 
garum fish sauce, that they actually used it in  
desserts as well. Pretty much any dish that you 
can imagine, they would dump the fish sauce on  
it. And I don't know if all of us would want it 
in our desserts nowadays, but I have eaten some  
meals with this garum fish sauce. And I can tell 
you, it adds quite a nice kick to a lot of foods.  
Let's jump forward one more time to the AD 
900s when the Vikings were running wild,  
pillaging and destroying villages all along the 
coast. Imagine you were in one of these villages,  
they rampaged through it and they attacked someone 
that you know and love. They cracked their skull  
with a big axe and they leave them lying and 
bleeding on the ground. And now it's your job  
to save them. You have to perform a surgery on 
them and then prevent that wound from getting  
infected. It sounds kind of startling to say, but 
one of the first surgeries that human beings ever  
performed was a type of neurosurgery called a 
trepination. So imagine someone gets hit on the  
head and there's skull craters in and there's bits 
of bone pressing against the brain. That's a very  
dangerous situation. It's offer brain damage, 
even die from that as pressure and blood builds  
up beneath the skull. And they would remove those 
broken bits of bone. That would allow any blood to  
seep out and would prevent it from pressing down 
on the brain and injuring the brain. So for the  
book, I actually got to try a trepination myself. 
I used a stone tool for it like you can see here,  
it's a piece of flint with some serrations on 
it. So it was kind of like a sawtooth piece of  
stone tool. And I tried it out on a deer skull. 
I essentially cut a triangular hole in the skull  
and then levered that bit of skull off. You can 
see right here, that is the piece of skull from  
the deer and there's a little bit of skin still 
adhering to it. And cutting this small piece, it's  
about the thickness of a bottle cap or so, took 
me about 90 minutes of work to do. And these were  
some of the worst 90 minutes that I had doing the 
book. This was an awful, awful chore. The stone  
tool actually worked quite well at first. I was 
surprised at how good it was slicing through skull  
for a lot because one disadvantage of stone tools, 
even though they're very sharp, is that they dull  
very quickly. They grind down little bits, 
start flaking off. And eventually you're left  
with a fairly dull tool where you're just sort 
of grinding away at it. So after the first cut  
was completed, this took me a very long time. It 
was a very big struggle. The other thing I didn't  
expect to happen was that I was outdoors while 
I was doing it a very warm day and flies started  
coming around. There were flies everywhere. They 
were in my hair, crawling in my shirt, crawling up  
my shorts, biting me, swarming all over the wound 
as I was shooing them away. I was also starting to  
sweat and there was blood and bodily fluids coming 
out of this deer skull that I was working on.  
It ended up being a gigantic, gigantic frustration 
for me. But in a way, that was actually a  
good thing because part of the experience of 
experimental archaeology is show you some of the  
frustrations and show you the things that people 
must have endured in ancient times as well. So one  
thing you might be wondering with trepanations is, 
well, didn't people die all the time? I mean, you  
have a big open wound on your head. You have flies 
crawling in it. They're going to cause infections.  
And the answer is people survived a lot more often 
than you might think. We have lots of examples of  
skulls with holes in them where you can see new 
bone growth around the rim of the skull, which  
proves that the person must have survived this 
trepanation. And especially in the Viking times,  
they would have had ways to combat infections. 
One way was discovered in what was called a leech  
book. Leeches yield slang for doctor. They would 
actually use leeches to draw blood off people. And  
in this leech book, a couple of modern scholars, 
one a historian and one a microbiologist, found  
some recipes that they thought might be plausible 
that would control infections. So they decided to  
test one. The recipe in the leech book called 
for a few ingredients. Onions, garlic, wine,  
and what was called ox gall, so bile from the 
liver of a cow. You had to mix this together in a  
copper bowl and then let that sit for about a week 
or so and then use that on an infection. And the  
book claimed that it was great with infections. It 
would really, really combat infections. But they  
wanted to see if that was true because the book 
had some other unusual recipes in it that didn't  
sound very plausible to them. So after making 
this mixture, the microbiologist tested it out in  
her lab. And she purposely chose some two pretty 
tough bacterial customers. One was staff and one  
was gonorrhea. And in modern times, both of these 
bacteria have shown a lot of resistance to drugs.  
So they're kind of running rampant in some people. 
It's very hard to control these infections.  
But it turned out that this mixture of onions, 
garlic, wine, and ox gall did a really nice job  
killing these drug resistant bacteria. She was 
surprised at how good they were. And in fact,  
she tried them in another even tougher test and 
they passed this test as well. Sometimes when  
bacteria get inside you, they form what's called a 
biofilm. So bacteria, they essentially lock their  
arms together and they secrete a mucus that blocks 
drugs from getting through. So it's a protective  
barrier that they produce inside living creatures. 
And these biofilms are actually one big reason why  
a lot of drugs that show promise in test tubes 
fail when they try them in living beings. But  
when they try this ancient mixture on biofilms, 
it busted right through and killed the bacteria  
anyway. She was very, very excited about this 
because biofilms are very difficult to overcome.  
They're actually developing this ancient recipe 
as a modern drug and moving forward into human  
trials with the goal of helping us combat some 
of these drug resistant modern strains. One nice  
lesson of this example is that knowledge isn't 
always a linear. I think we have sort of an idea  
that we're constantly accumulating knowledge 
that we knew more than people did 10 years ago,  
more than 20 years ago, more than a few centuries 
ago, and certainly more than people knew thousands  
of years ago. But that's not always the case. 
Sometimes knowledge does fall through the cracks.  
And this mixture was a really nice example 
of that, of something a doctor in the 900s  
would have immediately turned to, but that 
people nowadays would not have known unless  
they looked back. And we should probably give 
people in ancient times more credit for the real  
knowledge that they did have. One great thing 
about experimental archaeology is that it can  
reinvigorate people's love for the past. If you 
go to a museum and you start reading the displays,  
looking at the objects, that's a really nice 
experience. But that kind of knowledge has a  
pretty short half-life. It's probably not going 
to make that deep of an impression on you,  
and the knowledge will probably seep away pretty 
quickly. Imagine going to a museum and getting  
a slice of Roman bread or a quaff of Viking 
beer. Imagine getting to try on ancient leather  
clothing or get a whirlous spear at a dummy of a 
mastodon. It would really enliven the experience  
and bring it to a whole new level in your mind. 
And so a lot of people call the field not just  
experimental archaeology, but experiential 
archaeology, or even living archaeology,  
because it really brings the past alive in a 
new way. Part two, how do the Allies sabotage  
the Nazi atomic bomb? Chapter one, rumors of a 
Nazi atomic bomb. So imagine it's World War Two,  
and you are a scientist who's been kicked out of 
Nazi Germany and you've come to the United States,  
and you start to hear some rumors about some work 
going on in Germany about atomic bombs, and you  
are terrified. Because you know a few things 
about Germany. You know they have some of the  
best scientists in the world. You know they have 
a head start on important processes like fission  
that would help them make an atomic bomb. And 
you know they have the best industry in the world  
there. And most scary of all, Adolf Hitler is head 
of Germany at the time. He has shown himself to be  
ruthless in every other circumstance. And you 
think if he gets an atomic bomb in his hands,  
he is going to destroy the world. One thing 
that amplified a lot of scientists' fears was  
that they knew the Germans had also developed 
what they called their V-weapons. Essentially  
they were missiles. They could launch something 
in Germany, it could fly over to another country,  
and explode there. And nowadays we sort of take 
it for granted that missiles can fly hundreds or  
even thousands of miles. But to people back then 
this was a terrifying thought, that even if they  
had Germany surrounded, they could still launch 
weapons over the top and wipe out whole cities.  
Especially if they got atomic bombs mounted on 
the tops of those rockets. Werner Heisenberg,  
an atomic scientist living in Germany. One of the 
greatest scientists of the 20th century. A Nobel  
Prize winner, a brilliant, brilliant person. But 
he was working under the Nazi regime during World  
War II. And he was specifically working to help 
build an atomic bomb. One early experiment that he  
was doing was trying to create a chain reaction. 
Essentially in a chain reaction you have uranium  
atoms that split, they shoot neutrons off, these 
neutrons fly, they hit another uranium atom,  
that one splits, shoots more neutrons off. At each 
step it releases energy, and with each step as it  
progresses more and more energy gets released. So 
it's a chain reaction of events. Before this time,  
no one had ever been able to successfully produce 
a chain reaction in the lab, and Werner Heisenberg  
wanted to be the first one to do it. So he and 
his assistants built this giant sphere that had  
alternating layers of uranium and heavy water 
inside them. They put a neutron source in the  
very middle of this sphere and let it go and just 
started letting the chain reaction proceed to see  
what would happen. Unfortunately, part way through 
this experiment they realized that there was a  
leak. There was water leaking in to the uranium. 
And uranium does not react well with water. It's  
actually explosive when the two come into contact. 
This is not an atomic explosion, it's a regular  
chemical explosion. But it is a doozy. And so once 
they noticed water started leaking into there,  
they essentially panicked, fled the room, and a 
minute later, boom, there was a giant explosion  
as all this uranium and heavy water burst into 
flames. There were 20 foot flames roaring out of  
the top of the building. They had to call the fire 
department in to put it out, and this fire burned  
for two days. That's how hot and intense this fire 
was. Now again, this was just a regular chemical  
explosion. But Heisenberg was working on an atomic 
project. And as Heisenberg started to tell his  
colleagues about this failed experiment, 
essentially a game of telephone occurred,  
where one person got the details, told another 
person, changed the details a little bit,  
maybe even inadvertently. But as the story kept 
getting passed along from person to person,  
it changed a little bit. It wasn't just a chemical 
explosion anymore, it was a low-grade atomic  
chain reaction. And then things got even wilder. 
Switzerland was a neutral country during the war.  
So scientists from Germany could travel there, but 
scientists from allied countries like the US or  
England could travel there as well. And they would 
often meet in Switzerland and talk and exchange  
stories. And this story about Werner Heisenberg, 
supposedly atomic fire, got passed to allied  
scientists in Switzerland. They knew Germany was 
already working on an atomic bomb. And once they  
heard about this story about this supposed atomic 
explosion that occurred, they panicked. They ran  
right back to their countries, told everyone 
about it. And before long, in their minds, this  
was a small-scale atomic explosion with several 
people dead. Rumors were running wild about how  
close Germany was. In fact, one scientist at the 
University of Chicago after hearing this story did  
a few calculations on the blackboard, and he 
announced very gravely to his colleagues that  
Germany would have a bomb within six months. And 
it terrified them. And this is really where the  
Manhattan Project got going in earnest was once 
they realized that Germany might be a lot farther  
along than they feared. So various scientists 
started talking, and they said, "We have to  
take some action on this. We can't just be passive 
and let Germany potentially build an atomic bomb  
and not have a response for it. We need to start 
our own project to build an atomic bomb." But in  
addition to that, we need to start our own project 
to stop the Nazi atomic bomb project. And that  
is how the all-sauce mission got put together. 
Chapter 2, the Mission to Sabotage Hitler's Bomb.  
The essential goals of the mission were to 
spy on sabotage, and in some cases even tried  
to assassinate members of the Nazi atomic 
bomb project. There was a real motley crew  
of characters involved in this mission to stop 
the Nazi atomic bomb project. On the one hand,  
you had sort of the core all-sauce mission that 
was made up of military people and scientists. The  
military people came from the security branches 
of the Manhattan Project. The scientists usually  
came from the world of atomic science and atomic 
physics. And you just sort of threw them together  
and let them work. Kind of two different worlds 
coming together here. And there were often a  
lot of clashes about things like priorities, 
how to handle things. The scientists were a  
little more informal. The military people about 
the scientists were a little too lackadaisical.  
A real culture clash within this unit. But they 
had to figure out how to work together for this  
very important project. Despite its importance, 
the people involved really did not get a lot of  
training. These were scientists coming right out 
of the lab. They weren't used to being under fire,  
you know, running behind enemy lines, things like 
that. And the military people involved had no  
special knowledge of the science. They were just 
kind of winging it. But they didn't have a lot  
of other resources or precedent for what they were 
doing. So they just threw them out there and said,  
"Good luck boys, let's see what happens." In 
addition to that, you had sort of these peripheral  
side branches of this project. One involved what 
was called the OSS, which is the precursor to the  
CIA. But the OSS was not the sort of professional 
well-run organization that the CIA became in later  
times. The OSS was pretty freewheeling and in fact 
sort of chaotic in a lot of cases. They recruited  
a major league baseball player named Mo Berg 
to be an atomic spy to go into Europe, slip in  
their undercover and try to fair it out whatever 
he could about the Nazi atomic bomb project. Now  
it sounds kind of strange on the face of it that 
you would recruit a major league baseball player  
as the first atomic spy in history. But Berg was 
not your typical average major league baseball  
player. He could speak five or six languages 
fluently. He was friends with Albert Einstein.  
He was the perfect person for this role. And in 
addition to that, you had another military branch  
that was essentially developing weapons that could 
potentially wipe out any atomic bunkers that the  
Nazis did build. Different branches of the mission 
were working on different goals at the same time.  
You had the core OSS unit in Europe who were 
trying to push toward the front lines and gather  
up any material or people that they could find. 
One early success of theirs was they were one  
of the first military units to actually get into 
Paris during its liberation. Even when the Nazis  
were still gunning people down in the streets 
trying to defend Paris, the lead avant-garde  
of the all-sauce mission was running in there 
trying to get to a few atomic scientists there.  
Most importantly was Frederick Joliot, who was the 
husband of Irene Joliot-Kierry, the daughter of  
Marie Curie, a very famous and prominent scientist 
who had in fact pioneered a lot of the atomic  
research and the chain reaction research that 
underlay the atomic bomb. Then you had another  
mission in Norway that was going after one of 
the key ingredients in the Nazi atomic bomb,  
a substance called heavy water. So compared to 
regular water, heavy water is obviously a bit  
heavier. There's essentially an extra subatomic 
particle on the hydrogen in H2O. And it has a  
lot of nice properties when you're trying to 
build and test atomic equipment and get chain  
reactions going. The Nazis were very dependent 
on heavy water from a plant in Norway. In fact,  
that was the only place in the world that was 
producing heavy water at the time. And so the  
people in charge of the all-sauce mission decided 
we cannot let this plant survive. So they snuck a  
few commandos undercover into Norway who spent 
several days trekking through the snow and ice.  
They infiltrated this plant and they destroyed 
all of the heavy water cells in there. It's one  
of the big first success stories of the all-sauce 
mission and it really delayed and damaged the  
Nazi atomic bomb project. So that was one of the 
very big successes that they had. In many ways,  
all-sauce was an unconventional mission with 
unconventional people on the front line. But there  
were conventional military aspects to the overall 
project as well. One important event here was the  
bombing of Pienemut, which is where the Nazis were 
building all of the rockets they were launching  
into England and other places. The Allies feared 
that here the Nazis were going to build the  
rockets they would use to deliver atomic weapons. 
So they decided to wipe it out and prevent any  
prospect of that happening. One important aspect 
of the all-sauce mission was espionage, gathering  
information about what the German scientists were 
up to and where they were getting material and  
storing their material. After hunting down some 
leads and interrogating some scientists, they  
finally managed to track down a warehouse with 
several tons of raw uranium ore in it. They seized  
it immediately, not only to get it out of Nazi 
hands, but to get it over to the United States for  
our Manhattan Project. And most of that uranium 
ended up in the bomb that got dropped in Hiroshima  
the next year. In terms of the core espionage 
mission, they were on the front lines. They  
were often in fact beyond the front lines in enemy 
territory while there was shooting going on both  
sides. One group led by Boris Pash were some of 
the first people in Paris during its liberation.  
They were under fire the entire time they were 
doing that. The ex-major league baseball player  
Mo Berg went undercover and snuck into Switzerland 
posing as a graduate student. While he was there,  
he attended a lecture by none other than Werner 
Heisenberg, and Berg entered the lecture room that  
day with a pistol in one pocket and a cyanide pill 
in the other. And his mission was, if Heisenberg  
said anything about them being close to making 
an atomic bomb, Berg was supposed to stand up and  
shoot Heisenberg dead right there in the middle 
of the lecture. Then he was supposed to try to  
get away, but if he didn't, he had that cyanide 
pill to take to kill himself right there. He was  
under a lot of danger and a lot of pressure and 
easily could have died undertaking this mission.  
And then you had people who were trying to wipe 
out the Nazi atomic bunkers. This included Joseph  
Kennedy, the older brother of John F. Kennedy, the 
future president. Essentially they were trying to  
fly what were drone airplanes, so they would have 
a big bomber airplane that they were going to  
pack with explosives, fly it across the English 
channel, and ram it into a Nazi atomic bunker,  
which would have been a pretty good idea, a 
pretty big conventional bomb. But the problem was,  
these drone airplanes could not take off on their 
own. They could fly on their own but not take  
off. So they needed pilots to volunteer to get in 
these planes packed with explosives, get them off  
the runway, point them toward their target, and 
then eject out of these flying bombs. And Joseph  
Kennedy volunteered to be one of these people, 
a very brave mission, and he ended up losing his  
life because of it. The death of John F. Kennedy's 
older brother Joe really changed the dynamics of  
the Kennedy family. He was Joseph Kennedy Jr., the 
firstborn son. And he had been the one that their  
father had always groomed for the presidency. And 
their father actually said at one point that John  
would not amount to a whole lot. Joe was going 
to be the big star. But with Joe dead, they had  
to put all of their time and energy and passion 
into John instead. And he became the president.  
Chapter 3. Ethical Dilemmas in the Atomic Age 
The goal of the Alsace mission was to stop the  
Nazi atomic bomb project, however they could. And 
some historians think there were also people on  
the inside in Germany were trying to do those 
same things. In particular, Werner Heisenberg  
always claimed later that he deliberately slowed 
the Nazi atomic bomb project down so that they  
would not make progress. Not outright sabotage, 
but not working as hard as they could. It's a  
very controversial claim and a lot of people don't 
believe Heisenberg. They think he was just doing  
that to make himself look good after the war. 
But it is an open question about how much the  
Germans were trying to build a bomb and how much 
they were dragging their feet knowing that Adolf  
Hitler would ruin the world if he got his hands 
on one. So they had to decide how much they wanted  
to weigh those two things, saving Germany versus 
empowering one of the worst dictators of all time.  
There were also ethical dilemmas for scientists on 
the other side working in the Manhattan Project. A  
lot of them got started with the project because 
they had been run out of Nazi Germany and they  
hated Adolf Hitler. They were happy to build a 
bomb to take Hitler out. But once Germany lost the  
war, they suddenly realized that, uh-oh, now we're 
still fighting Japan, we don't want to necessarily  
use this bomb on Japan. But by that point, the 
test had gone so far and there was a momentum to  
the project that they would not be able to stop. 
So a lot of them felt very conflicted about the  
idea of using it on Japan when they had originally 
built it to go after Adolf Hitler. Some scientists  
at the time said they didn't want to use the 
atomic bomb on Japan, they wanted to give Japan  
a demonstration, show them how deadly it was 
before we actually used it on innocent people.  
But the military said no about that, they wanted 
to use it in war. And a lot of scientists, most  
famously Robert Oppenheimer, expressed regrets 
about this afterward. "We knew the world would  
not be the same. Few people laughed. Few people 
cried. Now I am to come death, the destroyer of  
worlds. I suppose we all fought that one way or 
another." They wished they had pushed harder for  
a test or tried to stop it in some way, but that's 
not the way history turned out. The big success of  
the All-Saus mission was in figuring out that 
Germany was not going to be able to build an  
atomic bomb by the war's end. What this result did 
was it allowed the Allied planners, people like  
Dwight Eisenhower and the other generals to get 
their focus off of big surprises, atomic bombs,  
and they could focus on what they knew well, 
which was conventional warfare. Essentially,  
it was a big relief for them to not have to worry 
about this wild card. Germany suddenly coming up  
with something that would turn the tides of the 
war in their favor. So it was a big relief for  
them to know that we were going to win the war if 
we just kept doing what we were doing. Toward the  
end of the war, the All-Saus mission captured most 
of the key players in the Nazi atomic bomb project  
and brought them to England where they put them 
up at a big country estate and just put them under  
house arrest, essentially. And when news broke 
of the atomic bomb that had dropped in Hiroshima,  
they were absolutely stunned to hear that 
the United States had built an atomic bomb  
when mighty Germany had failed at the project. 
They could not believe that anyone had beaten  
them the greatest scientists in the world. After 
Nazi Germany fell, there was sort of a scramble  
to grab all of the greatest scientists that they 
could. And this happened on both sides of what  
would become the Iron Curtain. The Allies were 
scooping up scientists like Verner von Braun,  
who went on to NASA to become one of the most 
famous scientists and one of the most famous  
people in the United States. But the Soviet Union 
was sweeping up scientists too. This was an early  
skirmish actually in the Cold War, was grabbing 
these scientists and pitting them against each  
other in building things like missiles and other 
weapons. The Manhattan Project changed the world  
by ushering in the atomic age. And I don't think 
actually we would have atomic bombs nowadays,  
if not for the fear that we had of Adolf Hitler 
getting an atomic bomb first. One of the best  
scientists of the 20th century, Niels Bohr, 
famously said that there was no way anyone could  
build an atomic bomb. And his reason wasn't 
that the science was too hard. He said, "You  
couldn't do it because you would have to turn your 
entire country into a factory to refine enough  
uranium or to get the plutonium for an atomic 
bomb. He just didn't think anyone would make that  
commitment." And probably no country would have, 
except the United States had scientists terrified  
about Adolf Hitler. The Manhattan Project was one 
of the biggest industrial projects in history.  
It cost two billion dollars in 1945 money. It 
was a massive project. They would never have  
been able to justify the cost without that fear 
driving them. A few things about the Nazi ideology  
really interfered with their ability to carry 
out atomic research. One was the fact that they  
didn't like Jewish people and they kicked a lot of 
very smart scientists out of Europe who ended up  
coming to the United States and playing key roles 
on our Manhattan Project. We certainly would not  
have built an atomic bomb without the influx of 
talent from Nazi Germany. And the other aspect was  
that a lot of Nazis were just sort of snobs. They 
figured they were the most advanced civilization  
in the world and that no other nation could 
possibly reach the same levels that they did,  
especially not a Yahoo country like the United 
States. There were many scientists in Germany  
who were stunned to hear that the United States 
of all countries had built an atomic bomb where  
they had failed to. They were so blinded by 
their own supposed superiority that they never  
considered another country would beat them. If 
the Nazi atomic bomb project had not failed,  
we would live in a much different world. And 
even if Hitler had never used the bombs per se,  
just the threat of it, the thought of him having 
the bombs would have really changed everything  
about how we negotiated what lands we were willing 
to give up. Hitler could have overrun Europe and  
completely dominated the continent or he would 
have moved into Asia and Africa. He might have  
even gone over to North America or farther 
and tried to conquer that. With atomic bombs,  
he was basically omnipotent. He could do 
whatever he wanted. Want to support the  
channel? Join the Big Think members community 
where you get access to videos early? Add free.