Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Previous episode
We talked about
The benefits of self-exploration
There are also many netizens in the comment section
Share your experience of trying to live out your true self
I think these stories can encourage others.
So thank you very much for sharing here
At the end of the last episode
We also said
Self-identity
It is a person's most inner and essential need.
If we can only see people's economic needs
Physiological needs
I can't see because I can't know myself
Unable to express true self
The mental pain caused
would mistakenly underestimate the importance of personality
As a result, individuals are either in some hidden places
Paid an extra price
Or transfer this cost to others
When we consider this high opportunity cost
Will reconsider
Many choices that are common in Chinese society
In recent years
More and more people
The involution of Chinese society
and the high-pressure atmosphere
Start to focus on inner and spiritual liberation
This is reflected in
Psychological discourse in public opinion
The proportion of
Some concepts related to psychology are also constantly emerging.
Become a popular online term
but
Due to the influence of the environment
Many in China
Popular ideas that seem progressive and liberating
There is a serious problem with its core
Therefore, it can only be said to be a false liberation.
So about this topic
There are many things to talk about.
In today's video, let's talk about
"General Studies"
Let me say one more thing before we start
If you are interested in today's video
or
Do you have any topic you want to discuss with me?
You can contact my email to make an appointment
Let's get back to our topic today.
Popularity of general studies
Dating back to 2020
Due to the outbreak and economic downturn
More and more people
Feeling powerless and anxious from reality
The top ten hot words in 2020
"Involution" and "Working People"
This sentiment is reflected
As the article states:
Times have really changed
Previous years
What we hear is still the brainwashing "success theory"
But since last year
Young people are increasingly accepting
The reality of being an “ordinary person”
Popular culture also began to promote "imperfect" "ordinary studies"
for example
Douban's general study group
More than 70,000 members
The group's announcement reads:
We are used to being educated.
How to strive for achievement
Be a Successful Person
But few people tell us
Before that
How to accept yourself
How to be a precious and happy ordinary person
In the hit song "Ordinary Road"
There are two lyrics:
Until I see the ordinary
Is the only answer
I'm just like you and him
Like weeds and wildflowers
Cry and laugh
Ordinary clothes
Also because this song is very suitable for the theme of general studies
Therefore, in the comment section of major music apps
Many netizens also left similar sentiments.
For example, someone said:
"There are three stages in life: knowing that parents are ordinary people
Know that I am an ordinary person
Know that children are ordinary people"
In the comment section of QQ Music
One comment with 10,000 likes said:
"When I was young, I was reckless and fearless.
Longing for the future, longing for excellence
Later I found it was like a flash in the pan
Nothingness
Until the end, I saw the ordinary
Awakening from a dream
Ordinary Road
It seems to be a path we all have to take.”
These words
This reveals a meaning:
Only when a person realizes his ordinariness and mediocrity
Realize the illusory nature of success
To reduce the anxiety caused by delusions
To reconcile with oneself
Accept your imperfections
Public Account True Story Project
Published an article
"Ordinary Learning, a Respite for Involuted Young People"
I told you this story.
The person concerned has always been a top student since childhood.
In high school, she admitted that always being first became addictive
But after entering Peking University
She has no other choice
Become the person standing at the top of the pyramid
She felt
You can't have any useless hobbies in school.
Time cannot be wasted
Don't take a wrong step
If you don't study, go out and play
People will talk about you behind your back.
Not doing the right thing
Later she discovered that many people did not come from prestigious schools.
You can also live happily
She began to learn to accept and get used to her ordinariness.
Focus on the happiness of the present moment
Choose to amplify the highlights of the small moments in life
As more and more people
Use "normal learning" as a way to calm your mood
There are more people
Participate in the creation of general academic content
for example
Professor Chu Yin once said in a certain issue
About "Is it difficult to accept mediocrity?"
In the debate show
Said this:
"What's wrong with being mediocre?
Is this society only capable of success?
Is this society too harsh on losers?
I live a normal life
Enjoy the happiness of simple people
Am I wrong?
Why do we have to go through all this trouble?"
It is said that these words resonated widely.
And it brought him a lot of fans
Then through the above content
We can summarize
General learning is mainly a means of psychological balance
It encourages people to accept their own mediocrity.
or finiteness
Trying to dispel success and glory
Psychological pressure on individuals
So how should we evaluate general studies?
General Studies
Can it really alleviate the social atmosphere of involution?
What about the anxiety and pain caused?
In fact, I think
“Accept your mediocrity”
This sentence itself is ridiculous
Very lack of critical thinking
Friends who often watch Anthony's show
Should be able to feel
I am this person
I prefer to start from a purely speculative perspective.
Evaluate a point of view
Then it’s time to look for various experiences
Empirical evidence
Then let me continue to explain
Why is this sentence thoughtless?
Because the so-called "mediocrity"
Just ordinary, meaningless
Lack of depth
It doesn't mean excellent or outstanding.
Accept your mediocrity
It means realizing that one's own nature is mediocrity.
Limited
This is equivalent to taking all the infinity of the self,
Transcendence and Intrinsic Purpose
All dissolved.
However
Since the self is meaningless
Why accept this meaninglessness?
Because the act of acceptance itself
It implies a higher system of meaning.
and the pursuit of value
This means that the parties believe
Accepting mediocrity
It is better than not accepting mediocrity.
More sensible
Here comes a contradiction
Because if you are really mediocre
It doesn't matter whether you accept it or not.
This paradox is similar to that of a nihilist
It's meaningless to tell others everything.
He also wrote many articles to prove this point.
However, his behavior itself
There is a strong sense of meaning hidden in it
That is to convince others to "accept that the world is meaningless"
This is very meaningful
So we say
People need to truly accept their own limitations
It can only be
Standing on a position of infinity and transcendence
Hegel believes
Limited meaning
It can only be truly understood in the context of infinity
Limited pain, failure, vulnerability
Even mediocrity is not absolute
They are just necessary steps to move towards infinity.
The mainstream evaluation system in Chinese society
Often monopolizes people's understanding of infinity,
Understanding of the sacred and transcendent
It caused psychological anxiety for many people
General studies attempt to pass
Reject and deny your own pursuit of transcendence
In exchange for some kind of false reconciliation of the soul
But true reconciliation
It is not to give up the pursuit of universality and transcendence.
But to realize
Transcendence advocated by mainstream society
Maybe it's just a false transcendence
So when you choose to give up
Cater to certain secular evaluation standards
It doesn't mean that I accept my own ordinariness.
It is more likely that they are pursuing true excellence.
For example, I remember
Tsinghua University
I once published a classmate's schedule.
It is said that this student only sleeps 5 hours a day
A packed schedule
Either in class or reviewing
The handwriting is also very neat
Every action
They all perfectly meet the excellent standards set by the school
Therefore, he has received various honors
Most students feel anxious.
Because they feel too ordinary.
I can't do this kind of roll.
However, in my opinion
This so-called excellence is the real mediocrity
Because this is actually another way
Repeating high school life
Tsinghua University promotes this kind of neat handwriting
The so-called good study style of racing against time
Can only explain
Management Model and Aesthetic Standards of Chinese University Leaders
Also very mediocre
actually
I met many top students and geniuses in college.
Gives me this feeling
They strive to get high scores in every subject.
But I don't seek to have a deep understanding of this knowledge
Lack of own opinions and interests
If an exam can be passed by reviewing past exam papers
If you get a high score
They won’t spend more time
Think deeply about this knowledge
Those who truly pursue
Students who have a deep understanding of the concepts
Often have no intention to cater to some meaningless,
Boring assessments or indicators
Results in overall evaluation
Instead, they fall behind those students who do not understand the
Therefore, many existing evaluation systems and orders
There are serious problems
Even reverse elimination
Considering that Chinese students usually
Lack of free time
therefore
If a Chinese student enters university
The university evaluation system is generally
Formalism and bureaucracy are completely unaware
Even blending in effortlessly
Rather than feeling bored or unfair
And life is wasted
This doesn't mean he's better.
Better adaptability
I can only say
He may have
Lack of space for free thinking and exploration
His boredom tolerance is so high.
No ability to perceive
The absurdity of this evaluation system
I believe everyone still remembers
In the two episodes on November 30 and December 1,
Videos discussing education
Mentioned
People naturally prefer fresh and rich stimulation.
Tired of poverty and boredom
However, if people stay in
In a boring, monotonous and closed environment
Instead, it may be due to learned helplessness
And gradually got used to boredom
Even become afraid of abundance and diversity
Many Chinese high school students enter college
Although there is no rigid restraint like in high school
But they will spontaneously repeat their high school life
Do the questions without reflection, and the test score will be
They think
Even though I don’t know what I really want to do
But when you are confused, go to the test point
It's better than not rolling and falling behind.
This does seem like a rational strategy.
But it is also short-sighted.
Wrapped in fear
The parties make short-term rational choices
In the long run
It's very irrational to see
So
Having a high tolerance for boredom is not a good thing.
Many active minds
Often find it difficult to stick to meaningless things
But in China
Many people appreciate
It is the ability to execute commands mechanically
Able to adapt to any harsh environment
without feeling the pain of losing oneself
But this ability can be viewed from another perspective
It is precisely a manifestation of disability
Under the mainstream evaluation system of Chinese schools
Those who pursue deep thinking
Students who are more critical and reflective
Instead, I often feel emptiness, pain and doubt.
As a result, these emotions affect their worldly behavior.
Causes them to be considered ordinary and mediocre
But the opposite may be true
Like to think, pursue depth
This is precisely an excellent trait
In a society that encourages individuality
and a social environment of independent thinking
These traits will be appreciated by those around you.
Give the client the courage to continue self-exploration
Eventually developed visible worldly abilities
In China
Many people who possess these traits
You have to live in a situation where you are degraded and scrutinized.
result
I haven't yet reached the point of worldly achievement.
Because of internal friction, I fell into long-term anxiety
I believe in inner and outer achievement.
Eventually, it should be unified
If we talk about success
View external achievement as a sacred and transcendent goal
Simplifying people into "machines that can be quantified"
Ignoring intrinsic value and dignity
So the problem with general studies is
Directly denies the pursuit of human transcendence
Essentializing human limitations
But this is still limited by the logical framework of success studies.
Lack of real independence
It is still the default
The legitimacy of the secular evaluation system
Premise
So this peace of mind
Is fragile and false
Once the pressure of social environment increases
The psychological comfort brought by ordinary learning can be easily defeated
The individual will again fall into anxiety
Even if individuals feel
I have accepted my ordinariness.
However, when friends, family, colleagues, etc.
When we still use secular standards to judge him
He still needs to spend more energy
Fight this evaluation on a psychological level
The bottom line
It is impossible for people to accept their own mediocrity.
It is easy for Chinese people to destroy freedom
To solve the problem of lack of freedom
Use self-denial
To solve the pain caused by the inability to develop oneself
Return to the early days of life
Beautify it into a higher level of progress and realm
Viewing the absence of personality as a higher level of personality
But this is just a kind of psychological comfort
Rather than a real force
therefore
True spiritual liberation
It is by no means untouched by the secular evaluation system
Just seek peace and reconciliation within yourself
on the contrary
Spiritual liberation means that the spirit must take the initiative
To criticize and deconstruct those false excellences
The purpose is
To establish a truly universal evaluation system
Under this principle
Individuals can draw on their own experiences
Uncovering transcendental events
Build a new self-identity
Use this as a link to find new interpersonal relationships
Within this community
People and People
They both recognize the independence of each other's personality
Therefore, individual
And thus forever overcome the old environment
Fear of being crushed and swallowed up
Next video
Let’s continue discussing
Ideas and methods for reconstructing intrinsic value
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
For example, if you want to discuss with me
An article or a paragraph
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
or
You want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!