- Everyone agrees that our attention spans have 
gone to hell. I call it a tyranny of attention  
because there's so many demands on our attention 
coming from so many different directions that we  
are simply overwhelmed and we don't have the 
mental bandwidth to cope with it. I'm Richard  
Cytowic, professor of neurology at George 
Washington University and an author of “Your  
Stone Age Brain in the Screen Age: Coping with 
the Digital Distractions and Sensory Overload."
- [Narrator] Your Stone Age 
brain in the age of screens.
- Washing machines and appliances change every 5 
or 10 years. The brain doesn't do that. Evolution  
doesn't say, oh, it's time for another memory 
module, a time for another language module.  
The modern brain is no different than that 
of our distant Stone Age ancestor. Evolution  
precedes by accretion. That is, once the brain 
arrives on a solution that's good enough,  
it keeps it and then adds on new features, 
sort of like a New England add on house,  
where you add one room after another and it 
looks sort of funky, but it works. Working  
memory is like the mental scratchpad where we 
hold whatever we're focused on at the moment,  
whether it's remembering a short grocery 
list or trying to remember, an access code,  
for an app and, it, it's limited in what it can 
do. How much you can hold everything that we do,  
costs us in terms of energy expenditure. And ATP 
is the fuel that fuels every cell in the body.  
ATP stands for adenine triphosphate. Creatures 
all over the animal kingdom all rely on ATP.  
It's like the bedrock of energy transformation. 
So, for example, if you have to go take a test,  
you're not doing anything. You're just thinking. 
But at the end of 3 or 4 of our tests section,  
you're really beat. You're tired because you have 
expended a lot of mental energy. So we have to be,  
you want to be careful not to waste your attention 
or spend too much. It's like a bank account that  
can go into the into the read very easily. The 
brain operates within a fixed energy limit,  
bandwidth, and there's no amount of diet, 
exercise, or Sudoku puzzles that can increase  
that. So we have to learn to live with the amount 
that we have. Listening to one person speak takes  
up about half my bandwidth, and trying to listen 
to two people at once is impossible, because then  
we've exceeded it. Now, you might think that 
as you're scrolling or swiping that you're not  
really doing much, but because that bandwidth is 
so small, and narrow, there's not much left over,  
and most of the energy goes towards maintaining 
the physical structure by pumping sodium and  
potassium ions across membranes. And that 
leaves very, very little left over for thought.  
A great example is the Oscar fiasco, in 
which they named the wrong best picture.
- [Youtube Clip Speaker 1] For Best Picture...
- [Youtube Clip Speaker 2] 
You're, come on. La La land.
- Just as Emma Stone was walking off the 
stage. Cullinan took a picture and tweeted,  
and that's the exact moment that he should 
have been discarding the envelope and lining  
up the next one. Basically, he flooded his working 
memory, and that's what led to them announcing the  
wrong best picture. The brain and the peripheral 
nervous system is really one big changed detector.  
That is a response to any change in current, 
in the current environment. And so it responds  
to novelty. Now, back on the savanna, things 
didn't change very much except the constellations  
overhead and the seasons. Now, of course, we're 
we've got change everywhere. Bidding for our  
attention. Now, I mean, take in terms of attention 
and distraction, I often say that the screens are  
like second hand smoke. And so in the fact that 
who's ever in the line of sight is affected by  
it. And we've all experienced this in waiting 
rooms and airport lounges, those huge monitors  
with their moving images. They demand to be looked 
at and trying not to look costs energy as much. So  
either way we lose. I think the only way around 
that would be to put in earplugs and put on a  
blindfold so you're not distracted by this stuff. 
This what I call forced viewing. Is it ironic that  
good looking at me on a screen? And the answer is 
not if you're just focused on my talk right now,  
but if you're trying to do three things or five 
things at once, then your focus is really shot. I  
think the term, you know, dopamine reward is being 
thrown around too loosely. It's sort of shorthand  
for anything that feels good. You know, a good 
meal will give us a dopamine hit. So, I mean,  
it's we're getting we're getting these these 
squirts, all day long. But there are two pleasure  
circuits that exist in the brain. One related to 
wanting and reward and the other to pleasure and  
liking. The two systems differ in how easy they 
are to trigger. Now, the wanting and reward system  
is very easy to trigger. It's network is diffused 
widely throughout the brain and basically in every  
crevice. But it's impossible to satiate. And 
this is the basis of the hedonistic treadmill.  
As soon as we get something that we want, we 
want something else. Pleasure is very short  
lived. Even Aristotle pointed this out long ago. 
On the other hand, the opioid system is smaller in  
its expanse in the brain is harder to trigger. We 
can satiate and this is the basis of addictions,  
really. Studies show that, behavioral addictions 
such as, you know, excessive swiping at your  
screen or TikTok addiction, activates the same 
brain areas as do physical addictions. So alcohol,  
cocaine, other kinds of drugs. This has been 
shown in many experiments where the anxiety  
level rises minute by minute as you take your 
phone away. The tech giants know that there's  
only 1440 minutes in a day, and so they fight 
ruthlessly for our eyeballs, and they want to keep  
us glued to their platform as long as possible, 
because that's how they make their money. I mean,  
Reed Hastings of Netflix said it long ago. He 
said sleep is their biggest competitor, not  
Amazon Prime, not Hulu, not the other streaming 
services. They have become expert in exploiting,  
positive, intermittent reinforcement. I mean, I 
know what they're doing. And yet when I see that  
next episode in five seconds, it's like, okay, 
what time is it? Oh, I can I can watch another  
hour. This is the same mechanism that's used 
by slot machines in casinos to keep us playing.  
That is, we scroll and we get a hit or something 
interesting or a good piece of news, and that's a  
reward. And so we said, oh, let's get another one. 
And we keep going. And so, but the rewards come  
infrequently and on an unpredictable schedule. 
And that's what keeps us glued to the, to the to  
the scrolling. So you are physically addicted as 
well as behaviorally addicted. How can you reclaim  
your attention? Good question. Well, the most 
effective thing would be to turn the phone off,  
but that also turns out to be the hardest thing 
for people, because they have what's called  
nomophobia, a fear of being without their phone. 
We are really addicted to the to the woosh that  
happens when a text message comes in. We really 
have trained ourself like Pavlov's dogs when these  
stimuli come in. The screen lights up, we get 
the woosh or we sit there wondering, gee, has  
anybody liked me? I, you know, you get anxious, 
just not used, not being able to hang on to it.  
One of the things you can do if you're not willing 
to put the phone down or turn it off, adjust the  
settings on it and your television so that you're 
not getting these this huge number of photons  
hitting your retina. In the book, I give examples 
for this. The first thing you should do is go to  
your iPhone and turn on the blue-yellow tritanopia 
filter. Turn down the brightness as much as you're  
comfortable with. On your television, which are 
really, really bright. Those OLED screens. You  
can to turn down the picture mode and the 
contrast mode and the brightness way down  
by a factor of 40 and you'll still have a great 
picture to look at. It's just you're not going  
to be bombarded by all this, this light coming at 
you. The other thing would be then what, the kind  
of light that's emanating from these very bright 
screens. And that is you're getting too much short  
wavelength light or blue light. Now, blue light 
packs more energy in its photons than any other  
wavelengths, and it penetrates all the way to the 
back of the eye. Blue wavelengths also signal,  
the onset of darkness and then the arrival of 
light in the morning. Now, any photo receptors  
could have evolved to handle this and give 
us our circadian rhythms of sunlight and  
sunset. Blue light penetrates the oceans 
more effectively than anything else. And  
that's where the photo receptors in all life 
first evolved. So that's why we're sensitive  
to blue light. People have suggested using blue 
light blocking glasses which are tinted yellow.  
Yellow tinted glasses are good for glare if 
you're sensitive to glare, for example. But  
those are really worthless. In order to filter 
out enough of the blue short wavelengths,  
you need a dark orange lens and it's so dark 
that you can barely see what you're doing. So,  
you know, you can show the effectiveness in a lab, 
but for everyday living and trying to get around,  
you'll be stumbling all over the furniture because 
you won't be able to see anything. Another thing  
that matters is what you're doing at night. Having 
regular hours of going to bed and waking up is  
one of the best things that you can do to reclaim 
your attention span and your focus. Why is that?  
Well, when you're when you're asleep, the brain 
is not just passive. You're not. You're not a  
sack of potatoes lying in bed.Our sleeping brain 
is highly active metabolically. It's consolidating  
memory. It's clearing out waste products that have 
accumulated over the day. And, it's processing  
emotions. And so if we don't allow it to do 
these things by shortchanging ourself on sleep,  
then it's equivalent of having a blood alcohol 
concentration of 0.8 You're really going to  
suffer the next day. And there's no such thing as 
catching up on sleep. I mean, you can't stay awake  
all night and then decide, well, I'm going to 
sleep in on the weekend. It doesn't work that way.  
And why is that? It has to do with our circadian 
rhythm and the cycle of sleep. Now we hit the  
pillow and we go through four stages of sleep. 
Stage one, two, three, four, which is the deepest  
slow wave sleep. And that's where all this repair 
process happens. And then we go back up stage  
three, two one. And that's about 90 minutes after 
we've hit the pillow. And then boom, we enter our  
first REM stage. And that's where we dream. So 
I tell my medical students, for example, if you  
have to give a presentation in the morning, go to 
bed, set an alarm clock for 5 a.m. if you need to,  
and cram and review and prepare your thing then, 
because at that point you're going to be refreshed  
from a good night's sleep. Your memory is going 
to be primed, your tanks are going to be full,  
and you're going to perform much better than if 
you had stayed up late cramming. So what are some  
of the things that you can do in terms of sleep 
hygiene, to establish a healthy pattern of sleep  
and wakefulness? Well, one would be to try to 
minimize tech. Don't have a TV in your bedroom,  
for one thing. Try to have regular hours of going 
to sleep and waking up in the morning. The more  
you can keep a regular period like that, the 
better off you are. Your room should be fairly  
cool. 68 degrees is ideal. Don't bundle up and 
get too warm. If you find yourself that you  
need to throw the covers up in the middle of the 
night, then you've started out too hot. Another  
thing that matters is what you're doing at night. 
Getting into TikTok and politics and religion and  
all these other things that can rile us up, are 
not a good thing to do after dinner. Certainly  
not in the in the hours before bedtime. Because 
it's just gonna, it's going to get our adrenaline  
up. It's going to interfere with our sleep. And if 
once it does that, that interferes with our focus,  
our attention span, our memory, all those kinds 
of things. So just deals with self-control and  
emotional intelligence. Am I able to throw the 
circuit breaker and not get into that argument?  
If you're about to have an argument, the best 
thing is for both of you to just zip it and have  
a good night's sleep and then talk about it in 
the morning. And you'll find that in the morning,  
whatever you were, you were all riled up about, 
really isn't all that important anymore. And  
again, it's a question of emotional intelligence 
and self-control is can you take the bait? Do you  
realize what's happening and say, I'm not going to 
go there. That takes a great deal of resilience,  
because at the end, when you get all riled up 
and indignant, who are you hurting? You're only  
hurting yourself. The solution is really very 
obvious is that you have to engage with other  
people in real life. Try to agree to meet somebody 
for coffee or to to take a walk in the park. Now,  
when you're interacting with another person 
or small group of people, your conversation  
interaction is very meaningful. You're there for 
a reason. You're getting something out of it. It  
feels good. Your oxytocin, which is the the 
binding hormone, they're being released. That  
doesn't happen when you're looking at a screen. 
And, when you're on a zoom meeting and looking  
at 20 people on the screen. That doesn't happen 
either. That, in fact, is very exhausting. People  
talk about zoom fatigue for several reasons. One, 
the camera is always in the wrong place, and so  
you're not quite sure where to look. You're also 
worried about how do I look? Am I coming across  
okay? Do I look all right? And just being able to 
focus attention like that is draining. The other  
thing is that the video and the audio are chopped 
up into different streams. So what happens is,  
when you and I are having a conversation, there 
are normal signals through our body language and  
through the tone of our speech of when it's time 
for me to talk, stop talking, and when it's time  
for you to respond. But with, when the audio 
is chopped up in zoom meetings, you get this  
sputtering. And so it's people's attention that 
they're really focused on like, okay, well, can I,  
can I get an f word in now? And that's tiring. 
So that's what the zoom fatigue is all about.  
One of the things you can do is just take a 
deliberate break, throw that circuit breaker  
and stop all the busyness, stop all the things 
that you're trying to do at this moment. The Dutch  
have a wonderful concept called “niksen” which 
means the art of doing nothing. So you get up  
from your computer and you stare out the window. 
You look at the trees. You listen to the birds.  
You watch the branches swaying in the wind. And 
you do this for, I don't know, three minutes is  
enough to throw that circuit breaker and, take 
you out of the busyness for a minute. So you  
have basically you here you are at tilt, and then 
you do a niksen moment, and you and you lower that  
level of engagement. And so you can start you 
can, you know, start over again. And you know,  
niksen isn't it's not meditation. It's not 
a forced moment of doing nothing. It's just  
a voluntary of just, you know, look up. You're 
outside taking a walk, look up at the buildings.  
What's what's out there? You're so used to just 
looking at ground level or walking along, looking  
at your phone and, know, running into lampposts. 
So just put the phone aside. Stop. Look around.  
Breathe. That's niksen That's throwing the circuit 
breaker. I call silence an essential nutrients.  
So, silence is an essential nutrient, because 
when we evolved 3 billion years ago, the world  
was pretty quiet.Mostly you heard the rustle of 
the wind. And that was it. You know, if you heard  
a snap of a twig. Well, that was, you know, you 
you put yourself on alarm. Whoa. What's that? Is  
that a danger coming? You know? So something out 
of the ordinary activated or a change detector,  
and it could be. Well, what is it? Is it 
a threat or is it an opportunity? Is it,  
you know, is it a lion coming to after me, or 
is it the possibility of a mate or a meal? So,  
you know, the brain did not evolve to be on 24/7. 
It needs periods of downtime to restore itself.
- [Narrator] Want to support the channel? Join the  
Big Think members community where you 
get access to videos early ad free.