Hello everyone, I'm Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today's video
We try to propose another perspective to explore
Why does kindness not exist?
In the previous video
We said
Many Chinese parents are accustomed to emphasizing
My kindness to my children
This is reflected in the provision of a series of resources for children
Or above capital
For example, sending children to school
Signed up for various interest classes
Purchased various tangible or intangible products
Or working time for the children
For example, cooking for children and doing housework
The commonality of these efforts is that they are quantifiable.
Exclusive and Conservative
That is to say
A capital or labor time
Either belongs to the parents
Either belongs to the child
Parents gave their children a
I'm missing one
Since a child has been
None of them work
and cannot create wealth
Even if the child works very hard
But it is unlikely to give parents a visual
Calculated returns
So the child feels that he has been born
It's a black hole of ever-expanding deficits.
He felt increasingly ashamed and guilty.
Feeling that you are taking up too many of your parents' resources
So the only thing he could offer his parents was
By meeting parents' expectations
This provides parents with an emotional value
That was in the last video.
We also mentioned
The logic of this favor is not valid.
Because for the development of a person's mental abilities
The most important thing is not the material resources
or physical care
That only ensures that a person's body can survive.
However, mere physical survival
It does not mean that a person's personality really exists.
Really important resources
Good emotional coordination between parents and children
This attunement allows children to learn how to understand others
How to build intimacy
It can even be said
A person's total mental capacity
Such as self-efficacy, the ability to read minds,
Ability to express language and emotional attunement
All are conceived and forged in this furnace.
And it can nourish the person throughout his life
This is the most valuable intangible resource.
Such an emotional resource
Although it is also given by parents to their children
But it is non-exclusive and non-conservative
Can stimulate each other and continuously increase value
When I love someone
I am expressing my love
I already feel a certain satisfaction
I didn't give the other person some kind of love
I feel like I'm missing love
Instead, I feel more loved
Same
When I express trust and tolerance to my children
And the child performs better because of my trust
Then I will be more certain.
Your trust is valuable
Therefore, good education
Can only be built on
Emotional interaction between two subjects
Rather than a subject to an object
One-way indoctrination
So far we have mainly discussed
That kind of well-functioning parent-child relationship
How it works
This is of course an ideal state.
In many Chinese families
This cycle and interaction of emotions
It was not established
So today's video
We mainly discussed
In families where emotional interaction is absent
Why is it said that kindness does not exist?
as well as
What hidden rewards do parents get from their children?
Before the video starts, let me say
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
if
Do you have any topics you want to discuss with me?
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic
First, let’s say
In that logic of kindness
Resources for Parents to Give to Children
Usually visual and quantifiable
But in fact
The resources children provide to their parents are also quantifiable.
But this kind of giving
It is not something that children give actively and consciously.
Rather, parents treat their children as functional tools.
or taking advantage of a child's vulnerable position
The result of exploitation
When we take what parents get from children
Quantify into money
We will find
This amount may be very high
Its value
It goes far beyond the products that parents buy for their children.
And the labor
More importantly
In dysfunctional families
Although parents emphasized
I just give and sacrifice unilaterally
Expecting children to repay their investment in the future
But in fact
They have gained a lot from having children.
And this kind of return has actually started a long time ago
If they don't have children
Or because of a disease that makes you infertile
So
They really don't need to spend money and sacrifice for their children
Seems like a huge cost saving
But will their lives get better?
As we mentioned in our December 15th last year
What is said in the video about self-identity
The concept of “opportunity cost” tells us
In real life
Whether choosing a career, buying or renting a house
Every choice has a hidden cost
We need to be mindful of potential losses from paths not taken
For many parents who like to talk about kindness
If they don't have children
They won't save the money.
Use it to develop yourself
Quite the opposite
The reason why they invest in their children as their only project is
It is precisely because
Their life paths were restricted early on.
If they don't have children
You will lose more
From the perspective of opportunity cost
We can't say they are devoted to their children.
It's a "pure sacrifice"
Rather, it should be said
That's after they gave up other possibilities in life.
The least laborious choice
Their investment in their children
No other options of higher value are given up
Then they learn from the children
What invisible benefits have been gained?
I think
First, there is the unconditional attachment of children.
The emotional experience it brings to parents
The baby's attachment to his parents is unconditional and total.
It can even be said to be an emotional worship
When babies look at their parents
The corners of the mouth are raised, the eyes follow,
Call mom and dad in a soft voice
These behaviors are not only important for children's survival
It also brings great pleasure to parents
In this process
Parents' oxytocin levels rise rapidly
Dopamine pathways are activated
It's a very real feeling of joy and intimacy
It is also a timely and continuous emotional return
We say this
It is not to depreciate what humans have.
This beautiful emotion
But emphasizing
Raising young children and responding to their needs
This is not an extra or noble favor.
Nor should it be sanctified as some kind of sacrifice and dedication
It's a human instinct
and basic ethical standards
On the other hand
If a parent does not feed and care for their child
Complete indifference to the baby's needs
That's uninstinct and unnatural.
And they will also suffer widespread criticism and social pressure
Because I see a child is cute
And then want to care for and feed
This does not directly equate to loving the child.
We often hear parents say
The child was quite cute when he was young
It's hard to manage when it grows up.
Not as cute as a child
This precisely illustrates
Children have given their parents a great deal of emotional value.
However, once the child has his own will
Start exploring the world on your own
Learn new things
When spiritual needs arise beyond the physical level
Some parents can no longer care for and feed their children.
Get satisfaction
Or they may not have
Let children continue to be attached to their own abilities
So I feel very lost
However, the true expression of love for children
It is
Able to transcend temporary and accidental moods
And can continuously and stably
Promote children's autonomy and ability to explore
That's something to be truly thankful for.
We say that many parents who like to express gratitude
The second benefit from children
Unconsciously, the child
As a container for projecting one's alienated self
When parents go through some trauma
Experienced feelings of powerlessness, anger, and neglect
He doesn't want these bad feelings to be associated with himself
But I can't accept it effectively
and integrating these feelings
then
These negative feelings will become alien to you.
As Winnicott said
If the baby cannot be in the mother's mind
Find himself
Then he can only find his mother
Babies can only be forced to accept their parents' minds
Absorb and internalize as part of the self
But these internalized things
Ultimately, it is alien
alienated
It cannot be connected to other parts of the self.
So when the individual grows up
Because of the alienated self and the true self
closely intertwined
Nesting and wrapping
Leading to the real core conflict
It is difficult for the parties involved to realize
then
He cannot clearly distinguish his true self.
What are alienated selves?
He will unconsciously
Project these alienated selves
Externalize
And see these discarded selves in others
Through this externalized behavior
He felt a sense of satisfaction
Feeling of self as unified and integrated
But since this satisfaction is only temporary
then
Individuals need to constantly use projective identification
This often manifests as manipulation in relationships.
We have many parents who like to emphasize gratitude.
Everyone can see this
for example
A woman who grew up in an atmosphere where boys are favored over girls
I have been severely discriminated against and belittled by my parents since I was a child.
So when she became a mother
After giving birth to a boy and a girl
She would often
Full of picky and critical
For example, she dislikes her daughter for not being diligent and sensible enough.
At the same time, she dotes on boys very much
This kind of disgust and dissatisfaction with my daughter
Often it comes from an inexplicable impulse
We say this is her growing up
Such a powerless, shameful
and the result of internalizing a devalued image of women
She identified with this alienated part of herself
I also agree with those offensive voices
But this alienated self is always tormenting
unbearable
So she asked her daughter
Became the carrier of this alienated self
And by degrading, humiliating and controlling this vector
Then feel that you are complete, successful, and beautiful
The more she attacked and belittled her daughter,
The more it shows how serious her trauma is.
How profoundly has she been alienated?
Although the mother repeatedly emphasized
How much did you spend on your daughter?
How much housework did you put in?
and convert it into market price
But what she gained from her daughter
Actually, there are many more than these
For example, my daughter
Serving as a vessel and outlet for her traumatic experiences
Constantly listening to my mother vent her emotions
A free listener all year round
at the same time
The daughter was forced to accept
The terrible self projected by the mother
At the cost of having one's own self-identity torn apart
Prevent the mother's psychological structure from collapsing
This is equivalent to unilateral
Long-term work as a psychoanalyst
In addition, the daughter also provides identity for the mother
The mother can be in front of relatives, friends and neighbors
Repeatedly telling how much I have paid
By constantly emphasizing the "grace of raising me"
To create a selfless image
Confirmation and recognition of this social role
It is a very important part of the mother's personality structure.
If there are no children
She couldn't construct her own identity as a victim.
It is also difficult to gain external recognition and praise
So when the mother uses the market price
To measure your own efforts
If we take this mother
Benefits from children
Market-oriented outsourcing is also adopted
That would be a very high cost.
And it's almost impossible to achieve
But it is obviously far higher than my investment
A more common situation is
Parents unconsciously
Using children as a tool to alleviate death anxiety
Common in groups that have experienced extreme environments
For example, in China
Many survivors of war, famine, and political movements
They will deeply feel the impermanence of fate
And for their own existence
May be wiped out by a huge force at any time
Feeling severe anxiety
In order to avoid this naked anxiety about death
Individuals can easily develop a strategy
It's to numb yourself
Block out feelings and refuse to think
This reduces the uniqueness of the self
It's like erasing yourself.
Naturally, there is no need to worry about being erased by others.
This sounds ridiculous.
But if you think about it carefully, it makes perfect sense.
and common
but
This is, after all, a passive means of self-protection.
The positive means is to have children
As Marx said
The animal and his life activities are directly identical
animal
Not distinguishing oneself from one's own life activities
It is its own life activity.
Man makes his life activities themselves
Become the object of one's own will and consciousness
It is in the transformation of the object world
Talents truly prove themselves to be species beings
This sentence means that
How humans expand themselves
It is to create freely and consciously
This isn't about survival.
It's the impulse of self-expression and self-transcendence.
People want to put their own mark on the object
Thus, in the objects you create
Intuition itself
Proving his existence
is universal and recognized
It transcends the birth and death of sensibility.
Such as personal works, thoughts, achievements, etc.
These are all traces and meanings of this person's existence in the world
However, when a person experiences a traumatic event
He may be dissatisfied with the system, the institution
There is a deep distrust of society as a whole
Through creation, thinking, expression
Lose confidence in all advanced paths
Instead, it turned to a lowest level approach
To alleviate death anxiety
It's reproduction
They feel
The continuation and expansion of the self is unstable
Uncontrollable
The only thing you can control is having children.
However, this doesn't really relieve the anxiety.
because
The essence of death anxiety is not the end of the body
It is the annihilation of one's spiritual being.
A person's understanding of his or her position in the world
Terror without a trace and without meaning
This spiritual existence
Only through the subject's creation and speech
Works that externalize one's spirit into reality
For example, writing a book
Build a model
Or make a video
Or write an article
Or have real emotional connections and collisions with others
He feels himself and the other
Really saw each other
And using the physical method of giving birth to a child
It won't solve all of this automatically.
Because the child is another person
He always has his own beliefs
Shows a tendency to lose control
Once the child gradually becomes unlike himself
The parties will feel
I have been seriously threatened
So I tried to have a child
To alleviate anxiety about death and loneliness
It will inevitably
Points to more control and intervention over children
So if we look at it from the perspective of money investment
Parents' investment in their children
It really takes a long time to get a return.
But from a psychological perspective
Then the children give back to their parents
Many times it happens in time.
Even children can't refuse
Children gratuitously and unconsciously
Took on the psychological functions that parents lacked
The price is the incompleteness and fragmentation of the self
So we say
In an unhealthy family
Children are never one-way
Accepting parental love and resources
But exists as a tool for a long time
When parents think their children lack a sense of responsibility
They may have overlooked
Your own children
Maybe I've already started to take responsibility
Than the material upbringing their parents give them
There is also a lot of pressure and responsibility
That's all for today's video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
For example, if you want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please also contact me
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!