(音樂)八小時工作制他不強制雙休他不強制社保他來強制了最近中國政府一個最新的政策再次引起了民憤廣大打工人中小企業主大家是怨聲載道啊 中国最高法院宣布,自9月1日开始,自愿放弃社保协议全面失效所有用人单位必须为劳动者缴纳社保于是,中国全民强制社保的时代正式开启了一时间民意沸腾了啊,几乎所有人都在骂毕竟大家收入本来就不高,强制缴纳社保,员工到手的钱变少了小微企业的人工成本增加了,没有人高兴得起来 大家都在罵但是我今天其實是想要告訴大家罵確實是應該罵的但很多人其實都罵錯了方向首先社保這個東西本身有沒有問題其實社保本身是個好東西我們這裡指的社保不是單指中國的社保而是社會保險這種東西其實就類似於一種保險產品就是通過集體的力量來保障所有人 事實上不是只有中國才有強制社保絕大多數發達國家都設有某種形式的強制性社會保障制度現在的問題是在於目前的中國適合全民強制社保嗎?一個如此龐大的全民制度不可能是孤立運行的關鍵還在於這個國家的整個體系是否能夠支撐這樣的一個制度整個社會系統工程跟這個制度是不是相輔相成 一句话就是你的社保究竟是让人民的生活变得更好还是更差强制社保在别的国家没问题不代表在中国就没问题中共的叙事逻辑永远都是这样对党的执政不利的好东西比如说民主和投票他就说这是西方的玩意儿不适合中国 He said to those who are good at party administration What are you scolding? People in developed countries do this You said that people in Europe and America also have forced social security The problem is, how much is the average income of people? How much is it? People work overtime have overtime fees People are forced to double-welfare People have a holiday of 20-30 days a year Do you have it? Can this be the same? 其实一个国家最怕的不是全盘不学好最怕的是学一点不学一点专挑对你政权有利的来学对人民有利的一概不学所以今天我就来跟大家深入聊一聊为什么社保是个好东西但到中国就变成了坏东西 At least, why is it that at this stage in China, forcing the public to social security is a trick? Why is this a government's complete and thorough 第一,人民收入太低第二,中小企業稅收太高第三,分配不公平第四,暫時賣個關子最後再講在開始講這四點以前首先我們要明確一點按照中國法律其實一直以來所有的用工單位都是需要給員工繳納社保的員工從工資裡扣除一部分用人單位也要幫員工繳納一部分 But before, although the law was in place, there was no strict execution, leaving a hole. Many private companies and employees said in the past, "I won't give you a social security fee, but I'll give you a few hundred dollars every month, OK?" Many employees didn't want to pay it themselves. It's OK if you can get a few hundred dollars every month. There are also employees who actively ask the company. Anyway, it's a two-way negotiation, then sign an agreement, saying that the employee actively gave up the social security. But the Supreme Court has banned this kind of agreement The pressure is directly to the enterprises Whether you have an agreement or not Even if the employee signs, covers the handprint, and records the video I am voluntary, not forced by the company Sorry, invalid As long as you find out, it is a heavily punished enterprise 那必然的結果就是企業不敢再這麼做了就算是員工求著老闆說你放心 我不會告訴任何人的但哪家企業敢保證跟員工的關係永遠良好三年五年後 員工跟老闆吵架了去給你一舉報 你就完蛋所以說這規定一除基本上以後就不可能再有私下協商自願放棄社保的事了 There are people who love their country The country is for the good of the people Social security is for the people to have medical insurance When they get old, they can get pension Life is guaranteed I want to ask those who like to call the government as "our mother" Don't the people understand this? If the people don't understand this The insurance companies in the world would have all closed down The problem is, before you ask me to buy insurance, you have to make sure that I am not anxious about my current life. When my monthly income is all in the capital, when I have to consider for my lunch, lunch box, and chicken drumstick for half a day, when I have to buy milk powder for my children, and have to choose the lowest level, you ask me to buy insurance, say that after a few decades, I can get hundreds of dollars every month. Why should I buy this insurance? 你要给人画未来的大饼你去跟已经吃饱饭的人画去我现在要考虑的是眼前如何活下去的问题所以有很多人都骂错方向了中国人民如此抗拒缴纳社保的根本原因归根结底还是收入太低我来给大家算一笔账 就拿北京來舉例一個在北京月收入5000元的人社保個人承擔的部分大約是700塊錢到手4300如果是在上海那麼個人繳納部分更高一些大約要775塊錢到手4200元多一點點 在中國的大城市一個月收入5000塊錢的人你一下給他拿走700塊那他肯定不願意因為5000都不夠用了更何況4300但如果是一個月收入8000塊的人要繳那1100元的社保到手6900元呢還是很不爽但好像沒那麼痛苦了那1萬塊錢工資的人扣出1400塊來購買社保呢到手8600 诶?好像还可以即便还是不愿意起码问候起中共领导的母亲时脏话会用的少一点啦那如果是两万块钱的工资扣两千八呢那估计没什么人抗议了搞不好还要说一句老了有个保障也是挺好的国家也是为了我们好 But in fact, the social security of the above examples is 14% of the salary but the feeling is much worse So I say Forcing the adoption of social security is not because of the poor social security but because the income of people is too low 你可能會說了一線城市哪來那麼多五千塊錢工資以下的人啊我看北上廣個個都付得不得了哎呦你要這麼想那就真的是被抖音和小紅薯上的虛假繁榮給矇騙了 根據國家統計局今年四月份自己發布的報告目前中國有7.6億的就業人口當中有4.3億人的收入都在5000元以下而這當中月收入3500元以下的就有2.35億人佔總就業人口的31%所以低收入人群真的比你們想像中的多得多 As I said above, it's easy to get social security with 20,000 yuan salary But according to the statistics, there are only 15 million people in China with more than 20,000 yuan monthly income Less than 2% of the total employment population Many people are always misled by the big rise in China, GDP world second and so on 其实对于普通老百姓来说你看总GDP这个数字是没有意义的你要看的是居民消费占GDP的比重简单来说就是国家的GDP当中有多少是真正属于人民的 In 2023, the average American population of GDP is 68% Britain 61% Japan 56% The world average is 62.9% What about China? 只有39%這就是為什麼很多中國人總是想不明白為什麼國家明明已經是世界第二大經濟體了新聞上天天說我們遙遙領先為什麼我的日子還是很難過呢 其實從居民消費占GDP比重的各國對比來看你就知道現代中國並沒有真正走出幾千年來商君疏離那套國富民弱的帝皇統治手段國家是很強大但人民並不好過而本次的強制繳納社保只會更進一步的加劇這個現象 好,以上是第一点第二点,强制缴纳社保影响最大的还不是个人而是企业去年我有一期很火的节目中国纳税人的哀歌当时我就说过大家不要一听到企业家就自然去想到大企业家事实上,事实上绝大部分的企业都是中小微企业而中国的小微企业主可以说是世界上最苦逼的企业主 If you are a small business owner or a business owner in China Or you have opened your own company in China You may be crying now Want to rush to hug me Who can understand your suffering In addition to the harassment of government departments such as public and commercial, small and medium-sized businesses You also have to face one of the world's highest corporate taxes In addition to the tax on employment and corporate income tax Chinese companies also have to pay taxes in various ways 曹德旺就说过按照他在中美两国建厂的经验中国制造业的综合税负比美国高35%这就是为什么即便美国工人的平均工资比中国工人高三倍的情况下他在美国建厂的综合费用依然比在中国建厂更低 I have already explained the actual tax on Chinese companies in detail in previous videos. I won't go into detail here. In general, when you calculate the repeat tax on shareholder pink and all kinds of nonsense tax, the total tax on Chinese companies is actually close to 60%. It is equivalent to working 12 months a year, and 7 months in total are working for the country for free. 在如此高税賦的情況下,絕大部分的小微企業其實根本負擔不了員工的社保。比如在上海,你僱用一個月入5000元的員工,如果是10打10的繳納社保,員工付了775元,企業還要承擔多少呢?大約是1900塊錢。所以一個月收入5000塊的員工,其實企業的真實用工成本大約是在7000塊錢。 因此,这个强制社保的政策一落地很多企业的平均用工成本一夜之间要提高30%到40%这谁受得了啊尤其是很多低端制造业和工厂原本的净率论率就不到5%甚至是3%这突如其来的成本他们是不可能承受得了的 其實一直以來地方政府也是明白這個道理的你硬要企業按照標準來繳納社保一大堆企業就要倒閉或老闆直接不幹了這就是為什麼這麼多年來只要沒人舉報地方政府都是睜一眼閉一眼的只要企業正常納稅就行了但現在中央突然來了這麼一記鐵拳結果只有三種可能 First, those who are already old or those who are tired of it just quit I can't teach, can't I avoid? Second, if you want to continue, you have to get a lot of resources Then one employee becomes two employees Niuma's 996 becomes 007 One day off a week becomes one month off two days 第三,就算不裁员,他可以降薪吧我看到有些人在说什么,强制社保好啊你看你才交700块钱,企业要给你交1900这以后都是你的钱啊这是有多天真才能说出这种话 Or Shanghai as an example Suppose your current salary is 5,000 yuan You had a deal with the boss The company gives you 500 yuan every month Don't pay social security But now it is forced to take over The company can't afford the cost of 6,900 yuan So reduce your salary to 4,000 yuan In this way, the company's cost becomes 4,000 + 1,900 = 5,900 yuan A little higher But at least it can last 而你呢恭喜你從原本的到手5500元現在變成了4000元還要再扣掉800到手3200你說降薪你就不幹了前面右拐就是大門走好不速現在失業的一抓一大把再加上這一輪又要自願關閉或倒閉一大批市場上根本就不缺廉價勞動力你不幹有的是人幹 So I want to ask In the words of the patriots This so-called "our mother" Is also for our good policy Who is the bitter one in the end? Anyway, the bitter one is not Yang Lan Lan The bitter one is still Niu Ma Next, the wide-scale work Niu Ma is about to face Either it's busier, more tired, more overtime Because the boss is retired Use you as one or two Either the salary is much lower than before So I said, you work for 8 hours, no compulsion Work overtime, no compulsion Double-time, no compulsion Then you come to compel to take over social security Isn't this playing hooligan? In the end, it will only make the workers fall into a more painful abyss 但是即便人民和小老板們再苦再難中國人是出了名的能吃苦也許咬咬牙也就忍了但強制繳納社保之所以引起如此巨大的民憤最重要的因素還是在於我接下來要講的第三點分配不公平 所谓不换寡只换不均苦一点也就算了但你不能不公平啊中国社保制度里最荒谬的就是大家可以领的退休金金额不是完全按照你缴纳了多少来的更加不是说你是穷人就帮你多一点而是看你是不是党的自己人中国社保制度把体制外老百姓的血汗钱大部分都拿去养退休老干部和公务员了 各位 你们家里的退休老人每个月可以领多少钱养老金两三千 三四千如果是农村的还有很多是几百块钱的但你看看这些人您退休金多少钱九千多一万多六千多一万八一万八吧退休金多少一个数儿 一万块钱年金一吋三百块进账五千两块钱您这个退休金一个月是多少钱一万左右吧您退休钱是做什么的七万里面 How much is the month's pension? More than 10,000 yuan. How much is the month's pension? About 10,000 yuan. I have 9,000 yuan. You have 9,000 yuan? I have 9,800 yuan. You can't get 9,000 yuan from your wife and your husband? You can't use up all your money? 你們退休工資都花的1萬塊錢吧1萬還有超吧那就好光這個海鮮和羊肉都花的500塊錢以上我們吃東西都不打算價錢這個不讓人家吃大家不如去看這是小刀打馬的好嗎越扔才價錢主要是幸福快樂就其實中國的社保可以說是體制外的人在養體制內的人現在有很多年輕人可能不知道什麼叫視同繳費連線這是你們應該要瞭解的 Before 1997, the state and the unit were responsible for all the pension treatment of the workers. Individuals did not need to be paid pension insurance. In 1998, China conducted pension insurance reform, and began to establish personal pension accounts. After the reform, the workers, the unit, the state and the military were given the same pension. For example, you started working in the state-owned enterprise in 1988 In 1998, you started to reform your retirement insurance and establish your personal account When you retire in 2018 From 1998 to 2018, the 20 years you spent on your own Is the actual spending year 而1988年到1997年这10年就是视同缴费年限也就是说你只缴纳了20年但总共算你缴纳了30年并且按照缴纳了30年的基数来发放退休金 世同缴费年限有一定的历史遗留因素但确实是对体制外和现在的年轻人极其不公平的90年代末以前绝大部分的私企和乡镇企业员工都是没有建立公领档案和被纳入养老统筹的所以只要你不是党的自己人你就不能享受世同缴费年限 Even now, as long as they are small officials who retired from the system, their level doesn't need to be very high, the pension and treatment must be much better than those outside the system. So you just saw that group of very responsible old people. This is the 996 big and small porridge of the Niu Ma people every day. Some of them can't even get two days off a month. As a result, they are over 3500. That is the pension of the retired old cadres who receive 120,000 per month. Some of the pension is so much that it can be used to make up for their descendants. 去年9月份山東省城武縣政府官網自己發布的一份報告顯示2023年,該縣體制外的企業單位退休人員為13,220人發放養老待遇3.69億元相當於每人2.8萬元你記得這個數字了 In the same year, the retirement of the Cheng Wu-hsien's business unit was 8778 people It actually released 7.85 billion yuan of pension equivalent to 90,000 yuan per person It's 3.2 times the number of people outside the system This is the data released by the government itself Is there such a system of public and private Therefore, in such a system of extremely unfair distribution, the government is extremely weakening the system of the people. Can you blame everyone for not willing to take over social security? Why do everyone want to use their own blood and sweat to support a group of pigs? Some netizens say that I take over a thousand yuan of social security every month. You give me 100 yuan of pension every month in the countryside. Isn't it good for me to give this money to them? 講到這裡,我們應該停下來思考一個問題為什麼中共早不強制,晚不強制偏偏要在這個時候出台這個政策強制全民繳納社保呢?上面我已經闡述的非常清楚了中國各方面都還不具備強制社保的條件第一是人民收入遠遠不夠第二是企業承擔不起 最蹊蹺的是七八年前經濟上行的時候你不實施偏偏現在經濟不行了才來實施以前人人覺得未來充滿希望的時候你不實施現在大家普遍對未來感到悲觀在這個中年焦慮青年躺平的當口你來實施 以前中国中小企业蓬勃发展的时候你不实施现在小微企业大量倒闭还没倒闭的基本都是在苟延残喘的时候你来实施你知道现在中国的商业环境已经危险到什么地步了吗我来给大家看一组数据 According to the financial Times, in 2017, China has 40,519 business. Here we are talking about the business that has the risk of investing. The pig's feet noodle shop that your neighbor Wang's auntie opened is not counted. In the peak of 2018, China has 51,302 business that has the risk of investing. 即便是到疫情爆發的2020年都有2.2萬家但是到2023年只剩下1202家到去年更是只剩下260家是2018年的千分之五連一個零頭都不到我們習主席總加速師的頭銜確實並非浪得虛名 The CCP doesn't know such a history-shaking decline? At this time, it is forced to take over the social media. What does this mean? A patient has been lying in the ICU. You let him perform a "Blood on the chest" This is totally unreasonable and unreasonable No matter how stupid you think Xi Jinping is There must be someone who is not stupid So there is only one explanation That is, the social security fund is about to fall This is the last point I want to talk about today Now many people are not willing to pay social security It's because everyone has no confidence in the future of social security The social security fund is not only based on logic but also has real numbers in front of us Everyone knows that the most useful thing in social security in New Zealand is medical insurance You can pay off when you are in the hospital 但现在很多地方的医保都已经出现赤字了亏空了上海2023年的时候就已经出现了赤字收支结余为负的14.3亿元北京2023年还结余了3.5亿元到了2024年也赤字了结余为负的5.2亿元上海和北京的医保都已经被击穿了其他城市就更不用说了苏州也穿了天津也穿了三四线城市就更不用说了 所以现在很多人去看病的时候就会发现有些药品明明就在医保目录里但医生就是给你开自费的为什么呢医保没钱啦大家都知道中国的养老金制度是现收现复制的也就是说现在正在上班的年轻人所交的养老金是给现在已经退休的人养老的现在的年轻人未来的养老金是等他们退休后那个时候上班的年轻人来支付的 So, based on the cash-in-payment, I will give you a score. You will know if this social security is still there. The birth rate of the population in 2023 is 90.2 million people. If most of them eventually go to university or professional school, then they started working when they were 22 years old, that is, 2045. Who retired in 2045? It was a man in 1985 who retired at 60 Or a woman in 1990 who retired at 55 The birth rate in 1985 was 22.27 million The birth rate in 1990 was 23.91 million If the proportion of men and women is almost 1 to 1, we each take half Then 2045 was retired by 23.09 million 902K vs 23090K is 1/2.6 In other words, in 2045, a young man's social security will be used to support 2.6 old people So, ladies and gentlemen of 85 and 90 If you want to get 4000 RMB pension every month It is equivalent to the salary of the elderly who have to pay 10,000 RMB every month Do you think it is possible? Even if there are companies to share the burden, it is still impossible Of course, this calculation is not completely accurate Because not only one year of people are working at the same time But the number is not much different Because you see, in the 80s and 90s, almost the whole 20 years The birth rate of birth every year is more than 20 million From the beginning of the 21st century, the birth rate has been declining The birth rate of birth in 2022 has fallen by 10 million So in the future, the situation is actually more serious than what I calculated above According to the current birth rate The ratio of employment and retirement in the future is 1 to 3 1 to 3.5 is possible 所以現在你就知道在經濟形勢已經如此嚴峻的當口中共為什麼還要強制全民繳納社保了嗎因為實在已經沒有別的辦法了即便這有可能成為壓死中國廣大小微企業的最後一根稻草 Finally, I want to say that even if the first three points I said do not exist, even if the income of the people is high enough, even if the enterprise can afford it, even if the distribution is fair, I think many Chinese people will not be willing to pay for this social security. At least if it were me, I wouldn't pay. 為什麼呢?說到底就是一句話對你中共沒信心這是一個經常在重大政策上對人民違約的政府這是一個冠於粗而反而還從不道歉的政府比如中共在1980年定下一胎政策當時那是一個堅決啊手段極其殘暴 The so-called plan birth assault team Uniformly dressed, hand-held sticks or rope I love to search The officer often broke in at night Arrest pregnant women to the hospital Forced abortion Even if you are already pregnant for 8-9 months Forced abortion Treat the newborn at the scene 但当年如此残暴,无所不用其极仅仅30年后又突然鼓励二胎了然后是三胎到现在是给生孩子的人每年补贴3600元这是一个曾经在大街小巷挂横幅宣传说只生一个好,政府帮养老现在又开始宣传说,养老不能靠政府这是一个曾经说,引下来留下来就是不能生下来 They would rather have 10 graves than one Now they are saying that they are raising their children to protect the elderly and their children are going to school and they are throwing them to the government What a shameless party Such a shameless party For example, the minimum age of Chinese retirement insurance from 10 years to 15 years later Now it has become 20 years 這樣的政府,你敢把錢交給他們?他們說這些錢幾十年後是會還給你的你真的敢信嗎?這不馬上就要延遲退休了現在讓你繳納社保,等你快要60歲了他能不能說不好意思,現在70歲才能領養老金了 等你70歲了他能不能說又不好意思了75歲才能領最後能不能說不好意思只有等你死了以後你的孩子才能領你又不能投票你又沒有槍你能把他們怎麼樣呢最後就只能學習將由人民了 I know this is a very heavy issue This time, in addition to the ability and responsibility, I really have no answer But I also believe in the wisdom of the Chinese people Maybe between enterprises and employees Will come up with some other countermeasures to change the way to avoid social security Another kind of resistance under the rule of authority 最後我想藉此機會在這裡說一聲江牛人民 加油我是老周 橫沒冷對 誌言不諱我們下期再見