- I started writing "The Human Scale," 
I guess many years ago because I spent  
so many years in the region. But I knew when I 
was writing this book that it was a dangerous  
book because people feel so strongly, one side 
or the other, and they're deaf to hearing any  
excuses or explanations for behavior from 
the other side. And that was a challenge.  
When things get black and white, that's when it 
gets really dangerous. Israel and Palestine are  
in a very black-and-white situation. It's all 
good or all evil. As a reporter, you can look  
into the eyes of the people you're talking to and 
try to evaluate what they're thinking when they  
say what they say. But you are not really gonna 
get into their brain. There's only one artistic  
form that allows you to do that. And that's 
a novel. For a novelist, it takes it another  
layer down. You get deep into the history and the 
imagination of your characters and their longings,  
their faults. You can portray them in a way 
in a novel that you can't any other way. And  
I wanted to open up spaces in the reader's mind 
that would allow them to see the humanity of  
people they don't normally sympathize with. I'm 
Lawrence Wright. I'm a staff writer for "The New  
Yorker" and the author of I think 15 books now, 
11 of them, non-fiction, including "The Looming  
Tower," which was about Al-Qaeda and the rise 
of Al-Qaeda, and author of "The Human Scale."
- Deriving truth and meaning from fiction
- I've been in Gaza and I've been in Israel many 
times and always came away with a great sense of  
frustration because there are wonderful people 
on all sides, and yet they cannot seem to shed  
the hatred and resentment that they feel toward 
each other. I was in Gaza in 2009 after Operation  
Cast Lead, and the invasion by the Israeli Army 
was prompted by the fact that Hamas had kidnapped  
a young Israeli soldier named Gilad Shalit, and 
they held him for five years and the Israelis  
never found him. And finally they traded a 
thousand Palestinian prisoners for one Israeli.  
That caused me to ask a question, which is, 
how does one life get to equal a thousand? I  
thought this devaluation and overvaluation of 
human life was in some way at the root of the  
fact that this conflict is so durable. When we 
weigh things in a scale that is so unbalanced,  
then it makes it really difficult for people to 
care for each other. If you are a thousand times  
more valuable than your opponent, then you're not 
likely to give them much credit. And seeing also,  
if you are one of those devalued lives, 
it increases the chance that you would  
take violent action against those who are more 
valuable in your view. "The Human Scale" shows  
the disparity in the value of lives in that 
region, which I think is basically one of the  
major problems in trying to resolve the conflict. 
People imagine that their lives are more valuable  
or that your opponent's lives are less valuable, 
but if you can't see the other as a human being,  
then it's a long way to try to get to peace. 
I mean, we've had the Soviet Union dissolve,  
Apartheid, and a Black man elected president, we 
went through Vietnam and two wars in Iraq. All of  
that is part of history. But this conflict keeps 
going on and on. And despite all of my research,  
I didn't really understand what was going on 
inside the minds of the people in the region. And  
I guess, frustrated by my lack of understanding 
why this conflict just continued, it was so  
durable year after year, I thought it'd be better 
to try to experiment with going into the mentality  
of the people that I'd met. As a reporter, you can 
look into the eyes of the people you're talking  
to and try to evaluate what they're thinking 
when they say what they say. But you are not  
really gonna get into their brain. There's only 
one artistic form that allows you to do that.  
And that's a novel. And a novel is the only way 
you can get in to a person's mind. You get deep  
into the history and the imagination of your 
characters and their longings, their faults,  
and so on. You can portray them in a way in a 
novel that you can't any other way. And I wanted  
to open up spaces in the reader's mind that would 
allow them to see the humanity of people they  
don't normally sympathize with. I decided I would 
write this novel set in the West Bank in Israel,  
and I wanted it to be an interesting story. 
I decided to make it a detective story,  
a murder investigation. The nice thing about crime 
is it allows you to explore society, dig deep,  
you know, uncover hidden layers. And that was 
what drew me to the idea of doing it as a mystery.  
So I had written a first draft and in 
February of 2023, I went back to the region  
more or less on a fact-checking adventure. And 
I came home, and then October 7th happened. And  
I was faced with a dilemma because it was such 
a deep wound in Israeli society, I wasn't sure  
exactly how to go about it 'cause there's this 
thin line between explaining and exploiting. And I  
knew that I was on a knife's edge in that regard. 
The only thing I could do is go directly into the  
tragedy and make it a part of the narrative. And 
it changed everything about the book. I know that  
some readers are afraid to read it because it 
evokes a lot of grief, but I think it's a truer  
story now because I've had to address things 
that I myself have been reluctant to confront.
- [Interviewer] What are some of those things?
- I was in Gaza in 2009, and this was right after 
Operation Cast Lead, which was a periodic Israeli  
invasion into Gaza to "Mow the grass," is the 
term used in Israel, to try to keep the terrorists  
down. And they are immensely destructive actions 
on the part of the Israeli Defense Force,  
but inconsequential in the long run because 
they never succeed in suppressing violence.  
And the bombing and the destruction that the 
Israeli Army left behind was devastating, but,  
of course, not like what you see now. But it was 
at the time I thought, "You know, this place is  
really devastated." One Sunday morning, it was 
July, it was hot as hell, and it was a Hamas  
summer camp for boys and all these kids, you 
know, wearing these little Hamas beanies and  
green handkerchiefs around their necks and singing 
Hamas songs in the courtyard of a school with a  
group of Hamas commanders in folding chairs. The 
night before, I was at my hotel and they had a  
little cafe on the rooftop and I was looking to 
see what I was gonna have for dinner. And I had  
seen the ocean right outside, you know, Gaza's on 
the Mediterranean. And it was this nauseating mix  
of green and brown because the Israelis had bombed 
the power plant and there was no sanitation,  
so it was all going directly in the ocean. So I 
thought, "Well, I'm not gonna order fish." And,  
but I knew they brought cattle through the 
tunnels, so I thought, "I'll order a steak." And  
the waiter said, "Would you like that well 
done or very well done?" I missed that cue,  
but I understood what he meant the next 
day when I was sitting in the classroom,  
when they finally brought me in after the Hamas 
summer camp, I was seated in a semicircle with  
a number of Hamas people and Khalil al-Hayya, who 
was a senior official in Hamas. The memory of that  
dinner the night before was making itself very 
present. And as I interviewed him, what was going  
through my mind is, "Just don't faint," because 
I was really lightheaded. Overhead, there was  
this ceiling fan doing this and couldn't stir the 
heat and the humidity, and suddenly I just fell  
right outta the chair. And I didn't actually lose 
consciousness, I just went slack. And some of the  
Hamas guys brought in, I don't know from where, 
a mattress and covered it with prayer mats and I  
laid down on the floor surrounded by all these 
dusty boots and continued reading my interview  
with Khalil al-Hayya, who was very kind to me. 
And yet he is one of the planners of October 7th,  
and he's now the chief peace negotiator for Hamas. 
If you can understand the nuances and the context  
of that story and the helplessness of an American 
who happens to be present, then you get a sense of  
how difficult this problem is and the complexities 
of the humanity that we're faced with. Well,  
this story in "The Human Scale," is it's a murder 
mystery. And the victim in it is Jacob Weingarten,  
who is the chief of police, the Israeli Police 
in Hebron, which is a major Palestinian city  
in the West Bank. Hebron itself is a character 
because it's one of the very first settlements in  
the West Bank. The settlement is Kiryat Arba and 
it looms above the Old City of Hebron. Hebron is  
a very old city and is historic, and it's a 
UNESCO World Heritage Site, and it could be  
a beautiful place like Jerusalem or something 
like that. But the weight of the occupation  
is so disfiguring. The shops are all closed, the 
trash is rarely picked up. The Old City has been  
virtually closed down by the Israeli Army, but the 
settlers from Kiryat Arba are in constant conflict  
with the Hebronites who are Muslims. After the 
murder, the deputy chief, Yossi Ben-Gal, takes  
over the investigation and he's like a lot of guys 
I met in Israel. He's a tough guy. He's, you know,  
spent years in the Israeli Defense Force During 
the Intafadas, he was one of the ones who broke  
the arms of the boys who were throwing rocks. His 
parents were Holocaust survivors. And he believed  
that Israel was the only place that will ever be 
safe for Jews. And so he had dedicated his life to  
protecting Israel. And into this comes an American 
of Palestinian origin named Tony Malick. His  
family is from Hebron, but he had never actually 
visited and he's arrested as a suspect, but it  
turns out he's in the FBI. He and Yossi joined 
together to try to solve this crime, which neither  
of them can do individually, but have to work 
together even though they hate each other. So,  
who would kill the chief of police in Hebron? Tony 
Malick and Yossi Ben-Gal are faced with, you know,  
the possible, you know, likely it's Hamas, but 
Hamas has many problems, one of which is not  
beheading people. That's ISIS and Al-Qaeda in its 
latter stages. It didn't look like a Hamas murder,  
but it could very well be. Another possibility 
is settlers. They were often at odds with the  
police and with the Israeli Army. And so that 
was a possibility. And there was a lot of  
crime going on too. You know, weapons were 
being sold from the Israeli Army to terrorists,  
a real drug problem in the territories. 
So there were numerous possibilities for  
suspects. And that's one of the nice things about 
writing a detective story, is you can explore  
the motivations of people inside the society and 
see what they're really thinking. Yossi's daughter  
Sara is a big figure in this story because she's 
disaffected by what's going on in Israel now.  
She's part of the protests, these mass protests 
that were taking place before October 7th.  
She loves her father, but is a little alienated 
from the politics of Israel. And she's living in  
Paris studying political science. Tony has a 
niece that he's never met, named Dina, who's  
getting married. And that really was the occasion 
for him to decide to come back to Hebron and get  
acquainted with family members he had never met. 
Her fiance is Jamal Khalil, who is really the only  
peacenik that you would find in Hebron. He's 
based on a real person, Issa Amro. I started  
my career as the race relations reporter covering 
the civil rights movement and he, he reminds me of  
the Freedom Riders and the, you know, the sit-ins 
at the lunch counters by people who knew they were  
going to get hurt, but they were willing to go 
out and make a statement. Issa was giving me a  
tour of the Old City in February of 2023 when he 
was assaulted by an Israeli soldier, unprompted,  
right in front of me, brutally assaulted. It has 
never happened to me before that I had a source  
attacked. And the fact that what astounded me so 
much about this incident is that I and a Belgian  
photographer were present, witnessing it. The 
photographer was videoing it. But it didn't matter  
to this young soldier who felt entitled to assault 
this guy for no reason at all. So anyway, that  
kind of violence sobered me up as a writer 'cause 
I realized I had to address it. I knew when I was  
writing this book that it was a dangerous book 
in some respects because people feel so strongly,  
one side or the other, and they're deaf to 
hearing any excuses or explanations for behavior  
from the other side. And that was a challenge. 
I had to find a way to write characters that  
readers would identify with, no matter which side 
they're on. And in my opinion, when things get  
black and white, that's when it gets really 
dangerous. And Israel and Palestine are in a  
very black-and-white situation. It's all good or 
all evil. And maybe if I could create that space,  
it would fill in with something other than hate. 
'Cause there's so much hatred in that region.  
So if there was a little bit of nuance, then it 
would've added something to the effort for peace.
- [Announcer] Wanna support the channel? Join the  
Big Think members community where you 
get access to videos early, ad free.