Today, today, there are three many of the Gingekierre got a year year. One of the one of is the American Statebeye Dr. Joe Mocker, Chowell Morgiard. Morgiard's research with with China is about. This channel of the people can't remember, the year, the Nobel Geogemann, the D'Jemogel the research also was going to the research, In the 94th of the Gepardou's We've ever We have our American World's National and the China's from the time that the show there has been many people watching this show we We we introduced we got award the general Mojeer and the his theory and his theory to the the world These years, whether it's in the English there's a can't be a little bit but it's very much difficult is the question. Is it, is what I'm going to go to end, or more more particularly talk, China's in the economic is the normal the short-year-sing situation or is the under-sand-franonged through, is in the road, along-keep, Mojeele and Mocke and Rue and the way-do us, has been to understand the question. There, in 40 years' years, the years ago, in the last year's long time, the last year, and in life where we've had the same-of-weigh, and many-eigh, and people get to the poor. There are to this some get to the most, so 21th century will be the first, will be the times. The last few years, the country directly said, the country, the country, to live in the world, it's not, but it's not. But it's not quite, but long. The two three years, the two-six- change, too, China, and the economy, the last, the time, it's, it, it's a time, it, Now, a given government, it's after, is the farm-de-sland banks, the government's debtu, wage, mean-eing-cheer, need-being-cheeky-eat, new-kind-of-stis-eat, and, and, and, the, "South", "'suffeck", Any other economic, any country, the economy and the will have a short - - - China's China's China's the economic should be the sort of a different different different If it's the normal to the short-time short-time If it's a certain-year-the-one-the-concuit If it's even-seem-cene-stern-sexual-concure, To get this "Chair this "Chinko-Chinket' "'We can't just draw in the "'of the current economic' "Incggy"" "'Chin' "Chiefs.'" "'Chimposed.'" "'We can't' "What can't' "'As we can't' as a point of the "'is' "'This is a given is the "Igoyer'" Even is a fairly to count-court-the-counter economy is a community is a society's a business. It cannot un-nigh-un-un- and it can be-calf-the-court to be able to do the social, so-o-wind-wa, education, and, and, all-e-moment of impact. It is so, the economic, and the economy, there can be a new- technology- development, This data-maa-out-with-winded, the data-out-term-term, but the growth-sum-sum-certainsame, but it's not-term-term-term, long-term, is long-key-ting-st. The world's world's such. Mochior's research is to get-ke-er's to get-key-z-zombsed data-mars. to find the in the second-year to continue and to get into some countries in a in a long-and- period due Morgiae and do Morgue and we can we see we we we can't we we can't In in the video in I've seen people I've seen people, and in the future and in the context and find out of the fact and in the if you're looking to the 40 years in the over the people are often as become becoming if you're if you can will wu-it-weewee this is the long-key chie and it's a change of the change of but if we're going to the over the 40 years and if you're including the more than into the history and hong-tall-lis--as-haw-lis--as-harm this time this time not is not a history-tack and is a These three years, China's in the future growth, and it's not an example, but is to take the history of the long time. This is by the country's country's data data-mar, to determine. To the history, I think of the history, can't Li Yvesa had said a question is that the old people used to be able many things people who oil, zouc, ink-sou, but why the time the technology and trade and not happened in China, but it was happening in the Europe, After, there, some scholars put Li Yusseh this question called Li Yuzze Nandi. The industry, the world's big, history, last, they're being back in front, China, and people, and people, also, even, I'm going to get the reason, But, the eye is the most is at the technical time. It's all right now, the gutte's not out of the long-to-belled the "Tongue's the mouffonged the system, but not yet, not, not, but not yet can't say, is to say, is to answer the Lieuette's a 'll' "o culture of growth, the origins of the modern economy. "Zeruncting of the "'Tenowne of modern-genegings' "'This book' "'enews. "'This book, "'Inged to 18-century, "'and society, "'dea-cure-of-since-of-kind "'deat a devout-ean-few-stead-euvre "'to-doxue-certainsame "'their-certained-certain-a-lond-court "'the-certain-certain-certain-a-could-cure, "'Modgare-ccertain-old-cure-court, '-certain-certain-lteur." a culture of growth. So what is the development? This is the development in 16th century to 18th century to the world. It is a new cultural, it's a new cultural, it's two he has two key keychings two. The first is open, open, and the world and the world, This is important. In that era, in the era, in the same-backed, by the same hundred of different of the world, gong-court, cing-bong-country, this one-one, in fact, in the country, to see-like-like-to-tien-tongued, is a lot of lay-she. But, actually, it has been a social-the-sac- and-euro- and-e-cuit- and-e-cuit-saint- Mojirma, and was the European-of-Gyern became, became a world, Republic of Letters. This, the World War I am not, is cross-of-, like China, like in the Chinese-Coucili, Combs, can go-o-Legu-Legu-Legu-Chi-Corp-o-Lead, The world can't not just be able to the thinking and not matter and not matter if a people would be a person people in the people who can't be able to his own his idea and he can through through through all over through the across the whole Europe No one of the high-womened can't unctuary, no one can't make a full, can't rule, let the whole the world's ensuing, it's this is this is the form of the thought of the social-earned and of a down the challenge, ee-d-e-d--st-sue-sue to a, The development of the second is the future, is to use for knowledge. Europe's cultural, cultural and the world's human beings, gradually form of the human, can't go to the same, and research, to understand, and can be the natural way of the way in use in fact to change in the human life. This is to break the teacher and the congen's between the building, Newton's theory is not just the rule and it's very it's very very to be using to other like the technology and directly pushed founts and these the industry and do you and research and and technology and this way the way the way the the world and The two two the two of the can say is the economy can't be the and it's in 300 years the and the time we're we're we're we're a different different two and China is a time This one big unty-tongued in the way-hue, and in-do-do-the-king, has its use. But in the thinking-term it, it is a in-mere-cun-cun-cru-due-due-duncter. It's a big-tecund market. It's a big-eat-scian-scian. In this london system, in the industry and the the last-to-mighter only one, is hongue andlial tity-e. A biggian-send, world is not to explore the ultimate, but is through the court-gues and into a state, to make a large, guan-o-goyal key-key- of a key-e- a-k-chee- and a-lost-in. The country's the first goal is to maintain the weaking, is to the right of the land, any of the key to the due to the new system, new technology, all will be seen-in-seye-the-weighed and by set-seveighed to get-a-eas. The whole-shaughtsion is on the back, and tomm, are not to go-the-see-shend and not to look to see-and-to-was-weight-to-the-she- This one's all the one-the-tongued as a great-moment, "obey-quy-know-the-will-becile-convac-rechovests, "Tewan go back and chinkist.' "You know, "'Chichury.'" "'It's'a-Sachian-Compat.'" This is "Ting-Tees-Chimpact.'" This term, "Thingeat'Outs-Megov-eat' "'Truy-use'-ean-ean-Mondah," "'Cin-Mend-Mindexhound." Do Mojeele, also let me think to Maasen Li-Conguechurch of Huang Yasheng-Lau-Shern. If Mojeele, if you're a big-ye-ear to build a bigot, build a home-gaw-lis-fency con-cure, then, can say, is using a big-e-and-a- for us-e-e-ponged to the "Chie-Tee-Teect. That is, it's, a thousand-year-old. Huang-Seng-Los' point, a, It said, "Chief of "'Chue' not at least "'Nearstall human, "'are in fact "'their Hohuechon "'steads. "'Their' "'their-cuh-soumine "'than'er's "'tongue na-looed "'a-of-heat-all-heat-hear-scenting. "'Caghue-chewsit-old inning "'in-kind of the same-o-strand, "'in-cene-could-o-stall-o-stou-ship-old-s, Because less the different-in-hore-hruing and the different-oerun-hore-to-oen-hruhruhury, the whole-country, 10-Gun-1-Mochie, co-cure, a country-of-eatheur, a short-recent-of-kind, the country's mainz. In the court in the system Soarce the Endothed in the Just so much There are the other The United States. First, The court's The end of the period of time The Court The court of being strictly at Lhya's point in The Nourgues Inchus 5gings in the The course is a bar-go-w-wun. A-cuh-o-win, if not-so-do-sure-be-sum, from-siao-to-law, a year-to-the-shring, his life-the-slee-hocleys-hurt, is around the book-stery-word-a-jorn. He's doing not a creative-scient-the-court, is to trymoh, moufong, be-songed, use ghan-wha-the-wun-wit-all-so-schen-y. This is this is for your think of freedom, on the first-your-to-frequency, to find the natural and other, its'it, key-to-called to gain-eas-executioned. The school-sru-ers had all of smart-searche all the "towloughed to "'bap-o-Wen' "'Their-oos-o-wun' "'wet-you-same.' They're not there is a time, or not can't have been able to watch human, and it's a way, it's not there and have time, have experience to study, to study, future, world, it's 17th Europe, in Australia, Newton found all you, and Buez made the Wigief, and all the time, and the same, the all the all in gubernate zh, with co-shirt, with science, in the world, in the world, in the public, truble the, is the thought of the, but in the use, the use, the paper, the media, He was not to put in to the freedom of the thought, and, it's more than, more than more the people and then to the camped and the crue and the grandeeism, and Morgiartre's so said the "Scian's "'In China, in the "'Incourtly, just by the "'theircue system, "'this is the key-tie-cuit, "'their-cuit, "'tack, "'tack, through the "'Cogey-situe-situe-stained "'your-fewsciing-type "'the-scied-cuit, "'tall through this "'Doo-Moo-Moo-Chail "'to get to get to the money, "'do-s, to get to the way. This system, is a perfectly to set up the society and the control of and it, he used he, he's a kind of full-to-shoot to form, so-sured the world. He's system to shrewed those good-of-e people, give-of-eq--piching and the people, and the end-e-eat- and the end-law to turn-estab- and the people, Hear this, there's There's people who are people who are the termed number, if you're all the system data, then the last week's then the last year and the economic key to so much, the the new-78, beginning, was the history's of China, but, and it's a, Mao had in China and the people had the people's to be able to end. In Mao died of the time, in the end of the people, make sure, to make sure, China, China, China, the so-weiguer kind of free, so-wee not, it's not, it's not time, and is time- time-of- Morgue and-of- Morgue-R--sa- the, some-the- key-ststst, the first-sion-, for, the fact-s, it, the think of the mind-jointed, to some the things and then these all of the country, this is the this is the the this time of the "Just from "Sally, "SOMC. "'Chair.'" "'Southway, "'Sighting a word "'justing, "'Cetown, "'Cetheal free, "'though politics' "'in'cue, "'then in general bielleys "'in' three-yre, "'that's in the world, "'eathe, literature, "'zehers' "'Germite, "'and, and, "'theirhue, "'Syshionion, "'iscycy-suit, "'and, you know, It was seen as as a Homoidsteads of the foreign and the were a lot read read by a lot fany incit incite and quite the rule, right right, right and then to market, civil rights, these foreign questions and start change change change but not many new many new many and start back on they they are moate said there and there This is the 20 years' of the future our own we can't make of the people that's not in that's that from the from all the from allah they're their and they're that their are they in in the country in the great social sure and and in the people might be many many that. In that time, that, the country did many new things like online, like the internet business, those are in the kind of just the of it's in being, for the biging, it's money, and you not need to not a board not and need to make the government to and that money, he, you need need don't people pay and the, the They're successful logic not to incoher government and to be able and to to meet the future. They've got the foreign culture and the future and the foreign market and technology and together to make together together together together and create great great and it's amazing It can say, the right-gardecai-con-four-concerned, is the country's time-as-fondon-concuit of the end-execor, is the country-executive and the country-sexuals, but, but, uh, and the development, in the country, from the start, it's due to beck-rought, it's not from from China's own from the world-tourgum out of, it's as a way a kind of technology, by the way-in-law-in-lawed into-and-it-lawed. The Chinese companies in the and the wealthism far in the share of the share of there are even still to not even never to stop and I'm and I'm because the because it's a different and the social economic and the end the future change but the change and change to change and final devian time the time 2012 year, we've seen a clear-the-trane-quit. The political-quets, free-quets, and then-controls, and then-control, and it's-eat-eat, and it's, and, the people, that, was in mong-ya--stranded of the system, being, "mow-stead the "tonging- all-the- "tonging-the- In the media, on the on-work-on-shund-hound some of the public-tallon-tallon, be cut-jured-hawed. To the public-scivents, to the lawyers, to the jurors, had more than any of the law-for-o-eas-be-easy-pupon-ty-ppousy-ppond-singed. "Eke'"" "Egolde "'Hecertains. "'It's not "'Syshally "'are' "'So it's not "'with' need a little "'deuts, "'it can't get "'it "'atheal-one. "'It can't' "'are. "'Tewan-min' guise'hrui-quay-hegues "'that-chimplean "'China'hamehirt. They're in the way it's still-being-be-ture to end-de-be-suechews to end-being-cheeky. A-day, many-eing-each, especially the Internet company, and it's a world, in the world, in the right, they'd be able to the un-e-cun-e-cun-e-cun-e un-culting-ean-stizue. A few years ago, to ari-bara and Ma'iii group's sub-bought to attack is a a bigis-sign-to-dire point. He's like all the people, he's, he's made a small, whether your business, you know, whether your business is high, we should no-tort- to fund the right, and then, to be in making making the end-de- So, this is to are all the is to allow the party's in the project set in part of the use, this from the from the bottom of land-in-lawed, the market-the-the-exam to end-concouping to model. The business business is the new-and-rength-e and is to trymoh, sure-the-cheeked sure-the-ebore-the- to make sure-one to get-sewed-to-do-the-show-the-up. And security, up to and to change, the company just lost the whole the entire and the entire into the country. China China's China China already the already years, but China the time but China the new and then the new new to do Every year, in China, how-tonged-donged of course will be able to the course but it's another new new kind of to important, to the country, the country the countries, set-deged different - things, through a huge-up-put-teer, and the project-cheon-cheeked to help the social-same and the best-efficient-the-connecuit-the-cine-sides. In this time, this on the new-kechoo-cure nangu-ge nang-ore-bigh-Bey-Zer, but it's the result-the-go-courgues-cuit as a great-to-all-it-all-all-all-all-all-all-a-lay-lay-lay-llay-lank-lay. The new-cure let the students in a free-be-the-stice in a free-de-chang-weens-o-wit, on Sli-Cun, to get-o-o-scent-sue. The new-courgues, the new-cour-the-cuit, and a lot-lust-all-dhack, to do-stitche, and not the real-stach-chew. The result-concern-kind-old production, can-n-gen-per-sen. The real de-fews to change is is not-per-quered-he-per-he-per-he-he-cure. No government can create-ch-key, and no government can set-eat-out-the-world-net. And, the country-the-court-the-court, is to be able to get-chewart to create-truechewart to create-chorn. He is at a free system to use in a government to pute in to run control the power, and not it's not to build and it's a new use of power. This is a one way. The whole-man-cook-to-rogy once back, thinking, the thought, it's long-dunt, the more time, and then grow, the end, it's time, and But, and then-than-Farindon, also just went to the end of the time. This is the time in the end. These few years, the economy-nebue-notes-one, wealth-shrouded, wealth-beamble-stent. New-cour-Cur-Chi-Sepheard-Exet the "Oh,noynecourt-scivil-scent-helf-hout-shafted —court-oven-ofer-tall-kind-heat-old-all-hury-turn, For example, the government-support the new-nonguechrist. China's planar, far than the market market. These co-saint of the product of the same thing, what do you do? The only way of the truth is with a low-deat-cap to the world's market to sell. China's new three-year, gong-fewed-cuitary, all-of-schant-pins, lead-eat-chechequer, all went to a different way. And the way, This type of mode of the Mordid, in here out of the world. The last point is the last point is it's the last time, he's the way, it's the way, the key-y-the-counter the, the key-of-the-cuit market, because it's continued developed 300-year, though, the people, people, but the people, but the people, and the money-s, but the In the last few years, the most of the extent of the system's hushed. But it's now the behavior mode, is in poor-wide the system of the country. China, this one-of-cap-chiport-to-the-cap, to any other a general market-kind country is not a good-competing, even is true-mean-a-oh. He's the not only is the one-called the country's and the and it's it's three-and-a- years and it so it's the from the the non-e-e-system can't American has through gas-zeng, to get rid of money, and to get rid of the money. O'O. Europe, even the things, even before than the money per, but it's at getting, to get more conditions, the EU- the US and the money's the money, it's a only is a price and and a seven, it is at once-shan, and then that's been to the world, I'm going to the world and the getting more getting more and the being so much the way, the way, the way, and the country, the two world, the two-of- the market- the same the same, the market, without the cost, without, China's money, how can't There are people can turn to Yafayla, these all the world but this is a one-is-a-is-o-hand. First, these these are the market's far as far not yet the U.S. It can't cannot be able to supply of China. And, these these in countries also have also to protect the world, the they also will build their market in the end of in the in the capital at the market in the economy not really to the money to get to give enough support full of money. Out of is the current the end up the last year and the price of market and when this car innings started to see what the world, the economy will be in the world of course. That short-zoned, farmed, yet will be able to draw on a huge-haw. We'll start here, we can do a small get. "Chief, the past four years' 'o'nuching's over the 40-year.'" It's not a series of "Theriteenade"It's a certain-li-stallied-kind-lestone-tile product. It's a new-scent-in-lost of He did use the Western, and the world, but yet should give-pue to develop to grow up and the land, is the the first a way, the way, and then-of- climate, and the world, the body, the core-the- logic, changed, the the world, and it's the open-as- the, the pan-d-st- society, the great-and- the big-st-o-l-o- In other from the Hong Kongu and History's or from the over the years, from the over the future people in the time, in the time, in the re-gues, and in the time, and is a long-e time, to the back, the, you're,, and, and, and, As to Mojeeer's research, can say in the in life, in the long-year-old, it's in the long-keep, is the power-dun-doin- the system can't-e-tall-tort to-suming. Today's said-one. Next-key-bye. Thank you.