Hi everyone, I'm Anthony.
Welcome to my channel
In the previous video
Through our study of the Cultural Revolution period
Analysis of an editorial
Exploring the mindset of witch hunters
This is quite common in contemporary China.
Most importantly
This tendency of thinking
Beyond the superficial differences of various ideologies
And it is
The underlying commonalities behind various social trends in China
Regardless of the criticism of NPD
Or is it the fervor of nationalism?
Or it could be an endorsement of freedom and democracy.
They could all be infected by witch-hunting mentality.
The person in question has an obsessive pursuit of absolute purity.
And this pursuit
This led to the enemy's unlimited expansion.
and the fear of persecution
The person involved felt that they were being subjected to an endless,
Enveloped by unseen and intangible evil.
In this kind of good and evil,
The binary opposition of purity and pollution
The world is reduced to an eternal struggle.
The result is any idea
No matter how progressive and liberating its original intention may be.
All of these could potentially evolve into
The ever-expanding exorcism ritual
So, this video...
Let's delve deeper.
The underlying logic of this witch-hunting mentality
Where did it come from?
Why this rather irrational way of thinking?
How could it be so easily activated in Chinese society?
To answer this question
We must go back to
that
This way of thinking was pushed to its extreme during the Cultural Revolution.
We will try to understand
What does the Cultural Revolution mean psychologically?
And whether it contains
Some universal laws of the human spirit
I will upload this video.
Included in the list of "Psychology and Education"
if
Do you have any topics you'd like to discuss or consult with me about?
You can contact me via email to make an appointment.
first
Just like in our episode last year about the trauma of the Cultural Revolution
The video mentioned
From a psychological perspective
Cultural Revolution
This can be seen as a regression affecting the entire society.
During the Cultural Revolution
Chinese people are moving towards more childishness,
Earlier mental states regressed completely
This is reflected in the social relations of the Chinese people.
Degenerate into a highly idealized loving father
With thousands of obedient children
Individuals will
Completely entrusted to that all-knowing and all-powerful father
In terms of emotional state
Manifested as an ecstasy of integration and symbiosis
and devastating hatred
In terms of psychological function
Manifestations include splitting and projection, etc.
More basic psychological functions
It has replaced higher psychological functions such as integration and reflection.
Split refers to
Infants and young children
They tend to see things as either entirely good or entirely bad.
Black and white
This is a very primitive way of thinking.
Projection refers to
Individuals express emotions and motivations they cannot accept.
Or desire
Imposing or shifting blame onto others
During the Cultural Revolution
These two mechanisms were used to their fullest extent.
Split mechanism
Let a person
Dividing others into two groups: all good and all bad.
You are either a "revolutionary mass"
Or they're just "demons and monsters".
"Projection," on the other hand, is more covert.
When revolutionary passion
That is, the ecstasy of fusion.
When the setbacks of reality cannot be concealed
The individual may develop tremendous aggression and suspicion.
However, because individuals cannot admit that they have a problem.
Furthermore, we cannot acknowledge the great community.
Or the revolutionary theory itself is flawed.
So this aggression and suspicion are projected outwards.
They must be those lurking among the people.
counter-revolutionaries
sabotage in secret
And those higher psychological functions
For example, reflection, empathy, and testing of reality.
This would be considered weakness or disloyalty.
Of course, the Cultural Revolution is many years in the past today.
But that kind of witch-hunting mentality from the Cultural Revolution
Still exists in contemporary China
And in a way that is even less noticeable
Permeating contemporary Chinese society
From the nationwide crackdown on spies in recent years
The constant stream of posts on social media
Anti-Japanese nationalist wave
We can all see the shadow of this way of thinking.
for example
A sun-shaped pattern in the shopping mall
It would be reported as a Japanese military flag.
A brand's logo uses a red circle
He was then accused of being a "Japanophile".
A celebrity or internet celebrity celebrates their birthday
If the date happens to be the "July 7th Incident"
Or some other anniversary of the War of Resistance Against Japan
They will be cyberbullied until they apologize.
So, having said that...
We must make a distinction
It is Chinese society
This kind of selective rejection of Japanese elements
Germany's strict restrictions on Nazi symbols
They are fundamentally different
Germany's ban
This is a manifestation of its defensive democratic principles.
Its core logic is that democratic systems exist for self-protection.
Those who attempt to exploit democratic freedoms must be dealt with.
To subvert the ideology of democracy itself
Legal restrictions
This is a highly rational...
Targeted legal and political actions
It targets specific...
Symbols and statements with clear historical definitions
For example, the Nazi salute, Holocaust denial, etc.
Instead of a boundless,
The materialization of "evil"
It does not believe that Nazi spirit is like a virus.
Permeating every corner of life
This is a kind of reflection based on history.
Procedural self-protection
Its boundaries are clear.
There is no tendency to expand indefinitely.
China's nationalist witch hunts
It is a pre-modern,
A collective exorcism ritual filled with insecurity
They are not worried about hurting national sentiments.
Instead, it is believed that
There really is a Japanese spy behind this.
Taiwanese cyber army and other groups are manipulating everything.
They are omnipresent and all-pervasive.
Evil spirit or essence
This kind of "evil" is believed to be able to
Through mysterious means
Polluting our pure national spirit
Any symbol, any word
A piece of clothing
All of these could become vessels for this evil force.
so
Its goal is not to define clear legal boundaries.
Instead, it pursues something impossible to achieve.
"Absolutely pure"
This means its list of enemies will inevitably expand indefinitely.
From publicly available symbols
Extending to any questionable words, actions, and thoughts.
For example, becoming a director of period dramas
In the work
Made a basic mistake about Chinese culture.
Immediately, some netizens asserted:
"Check his composition,"
Is he a walking 500,000?
In their view
Only spies from abroad
That's why they are so unfamiliar with Chinese culture.
Behind a simple mistake
It must conceal a sinister motive.
But in reality
Most Chinese
They also lack knowledge of Chinese culture.
For example, a few years ago
One netizen was only singled out because he claimed to be from "Northern China".
Its word choice is not in accordance with convention
Some people's stereotypes about "northerners"
Many netizens suspected that it was a foreign force impersonating someone else.
Some people also suggested
Using popular phrases from Spring Festival Gala skits as secret codes
Fishing
And to check if an online friend is one of our own
There are also posts like this on Xiaohongshu.
Some people are upset because their boyfriends can't sing the national anthem.
Suspecting the other party is a spy
And report it
Although this matter may not be true.
However, many netizens did not subconsciously think
This is outrageous.
Instead, they were leisurely discussing whether or not to report it.
How to report
This is even more outrageous than the incident itself.
If
The various phenomena we observe in contemporary society
They all have elements of an "exorcism ritual".
To understand the prototype of this ritual
and its most extreme and thorough manifestations
We need to go back to that event
Movement that reshaped the social psychological structure of China
Cultural Revolution
The Cultural Revolution was not just a political movement
It is also a nationwide event
A large-scale witchcraft event lasting ten years
It will be an ancient way of thinking
It was pushed to its extreme in the guise of a modern revolution.
The deep connection between the Cultural Revolution and witchcraft culture
Wang Yi published in 1993
In the article "The Cultural Revolution and Witchcraft Culture"
A truly brilliant analysis was made.
Although this article was written thirty years ago
But it remains very profound even today.
The author points out
People often draw inspiration from the Qin system, the French Revolution, and...
Stalinism and other perspectives
To analyze the origins of the Cultural Revolution
However, from the perspective of witchcraft culture
Or, from the perspective of primitive thinking, understand the Cultural Revolution
and the mental state of the Chinese people
However, it is extremely rare.
However
This perspective, however, may be more profound than others.
The author believes
Cultural Revolution
Although it was under the banner of radical slogans of breaking the old and establishing the new
However, its numerous behavioral patterns
In fact, it was copied verbatim.
Ancient witchcraft culture
It is a large-scale cultural atavism phenomenon
For example, it was popular at the time
Cross out the names and photos of counter-revolutionaries.
Or write its name backwards
Or use homophones to express extreme hatred.
This method was copied directly from witchcraft culture.
In ancient times
People believe
A person's soul
It must be through some mysterious means
Penetrates into hair, saliva,
Fingernails and all parts of the body
and its shadow, portrait,
Names and other objects related to him
Therefore, as long as these things are damaged
It's equivalent to the soul of that person.
This resulted in a real, physical attack.
This superstition is widespread.
In many primitive religions around the world
Therefore, primitive religions regarded the aforementioned objects
There are all sorts of mysterious taboos
In contemporary society
These taboos
It may be packaged in a very rational form.
For example in North Korea
If you accidentally soil the portrait of the leader
So no matter how you argue...
All of this is blasphemy against the great leader.
It is punishable by death.
This looks like an indication of an individual's inner intentions.
Make rational inferences
The charges were entirely political.
secular
For example, opposing the great leader, etc.
But this rational argument is just a facade.
Its underlying logic is precisely witchcraft.
That is to say, it is believed
Portrait of the leader
Not merely a symbol of a leader
In a mysterious sense
The leader himself
It was infused with the divinity of the leader.
therefore
Dirtling a portrait is not a form of indirect disrespect.
Rather, it's a physical level.
Attack on the leader's main body
Under the modern legal and moral framework
The severity of an action
Depending on the actual damage it causes
If someone insults another person to their face
This is equivalent to harming others.
This caused direct psychological and reputational damage.
And secretly cursing others in one's own home
As long as it isn't discovered
It remains merely a concept in our imagination.
The idea that no actual damage has occurred
However, in the worldview of witchcraft
Practice of witchcraft
That is, burying the puppet underground.
Curse the person you hate to suffer a disaster.
It is considered to be at a cosmic level.
Manipulation between humans and mysterious forces
It is not expressing
Individual subjective feelings of hatred
Rather, it is causing harm in an objective sense.
That's why
It's even more terrifying than open verbal attacks.
This has thus become the most convenient charge in political purges.
For example, the witchcraft scare during the reign of Emperor Wu of Han.
A baseless accusation of witchcraft
Ultimately, this led to the death of the crown prince and princess.
And tens of thousands of people were killed
Hundreds of thousands of people were implicated
During the Cultural Revolution, crosses were crossed out on people's names and photos.
It's nothing more than a variation of this ancient witchcraft.
For example, the famous slogan during the Cultural Revolution
"Sweep away all demons and monsters"
It is also very representative
As the author points out
This fervor stemmed from exorcism witchcraft.
Because the ancient people believed
All disasters are
The result of the evil spirits lurking around us
Therefore, it is necessary to constantly exorcise demons.
For example
Someone is sick
Or livestock die for no apparent reason.
People would then hire witch doctors to search the people around them.
Is he possessed by a ghost or spirit?
For those who are judged to be possessed by ghosts or spirits
People will treat him cruelly.
During the Cultural Revolution
For example, in some factories
When production drops or some machines suddenly break down.
People are not reflecting on the production process.
Analysis of technical reasons
Instead, a team was immediately formed.
To investigate which workers are not of pure class background
Or people with historical issues
They believed it must be them causing sabotage.
This is similar to how wizards use various omens...
Looking for people possessed by ghosts
They are completely consistent
at the same time
Factory leaders will also address all workers
Conduct various forms of ideological education
Let the counter-revolutionaries appear in front of the public
Self-reflection and confession
This is equivalent to a public exorcism ritual.
This is also to prevent others from being possessed by ghosts.
It is worth noting that
Unlike the deliberate framing in typical political struggles
This kind of purge and transformation of class enemies
First of all, this is not directed at any individual.
Rather, it is aimed at those mysterious forces.
The purpose of the struggle is not
Defeat a specific person
Instead, it is to defeat that abstract evil spirit.
Because of this evil spirit
It is possible for it to possess anyone.
Therefore, the whole nation has a strong enthusiasm.
Go and look for clues
For example, during the Cultural Revolution
One of the female teachers had a non-standard pronunciation.
One day, while she was reading "Vice Chairman Lin"
The word "主" was pronounced with the first tone.
It sounds a bit like a pig.
As a result, he was reported.
They were also accused of viciously attacking the Cultural Revolution.
As Levibrühl
As stated in the book "Primitive Mind":
Primitive people felt they were being subjected to an endless cycle.
Almost never to be seen
And it is surrounded by an ever-terrifying, invisible entity.
Ghosts and spirits filled the entire sky and every inch of land.
They are by the roadside and in the woods.
On the rocks
They tirelessly follow people day and night.
Even in one's own home
People can't find a refuge from ghosts and spirits.
They are found everywhere in the house.
Because primitive people believed that ghosts and spirits were omnipresent.
Therefore, exorcism became the most important means of survival.
As the author said
The foundation of the mass movement of the Cultural Revolution
Also based on
Above a cosmic diagram filled with demons and monsters
We also felt it very strongly.
I was classified as one of the "Five Black Categories" or "Seven Black Categories".
Land revisionism, capitalist roaders, gangsters and black lines
Viper that infiltrated the revolutionary camp
A wolf in sheep's clothing, a sugar-coated bullet, etc.
Endless
Almost never to be seen
And it is surrounded by an ever-terrifying, invisible entity.
therefore
We must always place class struggle in the primary position.
Class struggle must be discussed every year and every month.
Mao Zedong said
The Cultural Revolution would happen once every seven or eight years.
That's the same principle.
Looking back from our perspective today
People during the Cultural Revolution
It seems they have fallen into a collective paranoia.
They lived in a place filled with political taboos
In a mysterious and suspicious environment
Any unintentional word or action
All of these could lead to utter destruction.
This leads to a deeper question:
If witchcraft is a form of irrational thinking...
So why is this kind of thinking fundamental?
Is it often gloomy and fearful?
Why does it always point to malice?
Danger and persecution
Instead of goodwill, luck, and being blessed?
Many Chinese families
There are all sorts of mysterious taboos.
For example, a pair of chopsticks stuck in rice.
This neutral shape
Why is it necessarily related to
Offering incense to the dead
How do we connect with this ominous scenario?
Why can't it be interpreted as a form of blessing?
Wishing you smooth sailing
Or perhaps it signifies a desire for continuous advancement?
For example, there are many taboos in traditional Chinese weddings.
For example, the bride's feet should not be on the ground when she leaves the house.
Otherwise it would be considered unlucky.
From a witchcraft perspective
When the bride gets married
Experiencing a significant moment of identity transformation
At this time, her mind and body
Both are considered more vulnerable.
Very susceptible to pollution from the ground.
Keeping one's feet off the ground is a way to ward off evil spirits.
To ensure the bride enters her husband's home in a pure and innocent state.
This ensures a smooth future marriage.
We say, witchcraft thinking
Often with malice
To view the external environment and changes
Because it always has a preset
The self is powerless, passive, and pure.
Therefore, it is extremely susceptible to external pollution.
My purity is so fragile.
So much so that any small, unusual event
These could all be the beginning of a contamination or infiltration process.
therefore
From a scientific perspective, these conjectures cannot be refuted.
If a person's subjectivity is underdeveloped
Even though he learned a lot of science
They also use a set of scientific terms.
To fill that ancient magical mindset
For example, he might no longer be afraid of "ghosts and gods".
But they will then turn their attention to "bacteria" and "nuclear radiation".
"Genetically modified" produces a
Disproportionate and irrational fear
And developed a new and complex set of evolutionary rituals
In the face of the deepest fear
People will forget the knowledge they have acquired.
For example
In the 2023 incident of Japan discharging nuclear wastewater
Many Chinese people began frantically stockpiling salt.
Because it is said that salt can prevent nuclear radiation.
At the same time, Chinese official and non-governmental
They all launched a campaign to boycott Japanese seafood.
Although from a scientific point of view
Japanese fish and Chinese fish
They all swim in the same ocean
If there is pollution
So, fish from China are also harmful.
However, it is reasonable from the perspective of witchcraft thinking.
People in ancient times believed
Totem symbols or spirit of rival tribes
It is mysterious.
It permeates everything in this tribe.
therefore
Even if Japanese fish and Chinese fish are in the same sea area
But as long as a fish is labeled as Japanese...
It thus became the vessel of that evil spirit.
Eating seafood is more than just eating seafood
It is a dangerous ritual
It will bring bad luck
However, this misfortune was named nuclear radiation.
Fish from China are considered safe.
Because it is protected by our own totem.
We say that the subjectivity is underdeveloped
It is the root cause of all superstition.
And this superstition
It relies on simply popularizing scientific knowledge.
Unchangeable
People today
The term "demons and monsters" may no longer be mentioned.
But he will include concepts such as foreign forces and capital.
It is also regarded as omnipresent and all-pervasive.
The evil entity that is constantly infiltrating and corrupting us
but
Let's leave this topic for the next video.
That's all for today's video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact me via email.
For example, you want to discuss a certain article with me.
A certain quote, a certain video
A certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
Or you'd like to discuss your life experiences with me.
Confusion and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions regarding payment and communication methods
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you are unable to pay or become a member
Please also contact me
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will upload this video.
Included in the list of "Psychology and Education"
I also recommend it to everyone
Go check out other videos in this list
Thank you for watching.
goodbye!