During the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election
Trump accuses "election fraud" and calls for urgent vote check
If you count the legitimate ticket, I can easily won the election
"If you count the legal votes, I easily win.
If you count the illegal votes, the Democrats can steal our victory
If you count the illegal votes, they can try to steal the election from us. "
Later, a piece of news about "Democratic cheating" was widely spread among Trump fans in Taiwan.
Turned out to be fake news
Since the outbreak of the new crown
There are also various fake news conspiracy theories that this is a man-made virus
But obviously the scientific community has not yet concluded on this matter.
During the referendum in Taiwan last year
There have also been various fake news and cyber army attacks that are suspected of manipulating voters
So that the entire social debate is flooded with wrong information
Today I will face the book "Root Down!" Citizens' Speculative Course in German Education"
I'm going to tell you how to distinguish fake news
The author of this book is German political scientist Manfred Theisen
He wants to introduce the history of fake news in this book
Several ways to distinguish fake news
And the cognitive warfare that has been discussed in recent years
First let's break a myth
In fact, fake news is not something that only happens in the internet age
As early as the ancient Egyptian era
The first fake news in history
In 1274 BC, the Egyptian army fought with the Xitai people
Egyptian army defeated
At that time, Pharaoh Ramses II told the Egyptians that he had defeated the Xitai people
Because no one would question what Pharaoh said
There are no war reporters to record the first-hand truth
So this fake news was carved on the stone by the Egyptians
Is recorded as the truth
Until today you traveled to Thebes in Egypt
Can still see the historical record of praising Ramses II
And the biggest fake news in history
In the 4th century AD
Constantine the Great of Rome moved Rome to Byzantium
Which is today's Istanbul, Turkey
According to the literature circulating at the time (Donation of Constantine)
The reason why the emperor moved the capital is
Because Pope St. Vis I cured Emperor Constantine’s leprosy
In order to repay the Pope, he donated the whole of Rome to the Pope’s rule.
But in the 15th century, the Italian scholar Lorenzo Valla discovered
The term used in this so-called 4th-century document turned out to be Constantinople
But at that time this place should be called Byzantium instead of Constantinople
It turns out that this document was forged by the Catholic Church.
It’s fake news created by the Pope in the 8th century to fight for power
It's this fake news
So that the Catholic Church can justifiably rule the West for a thousand years
Arguably the biggest scam in human history
The large-scale fake news in modern times was in the 20th century
A manual for a mysterious organization that claims to rule the world appeared
Called "The Minutes of the Zion Presbyterian Church"
It records the news that the Jews conspired to rule the world
The book spread from Russia to Europe in the early 20th century
Let Europeans become more and more disgusted with Jews
It wasn’t until 1920 that the Thames newspaper declared this document to be false.
But it's too late
Anti-Semitism across Europe has reached a peak in Germany
Hitler used the "Minutes of the Zion Presbyterian Church" as the basis for his anti-Semitism in "My Struggle"
In other words, fake news contributed to the emergence of Nazis
Until today in Arab countries
The "Minutes of the Zion Presbyterian Church" will still be used to incite the crowd
Used to anti-Israeli Jews
on the other hand
Fake news is a great trick during the war
Because the party that starts the war often needs to forge a valid reason
For example, when World War II broke out in 1939, what name did Germany use to attack Poland?
Hitler sent guards to direct and perform
Pretending to attack a radio station on the border between Germany and Poland
Let the Germans mistakenly think that Polish soldiers have come
But in fact it was a scene arranged by Hitler.
This allows him to speak to the Germans justifiably
We were attacked by Poland! We must fight back!
So in the early morning of the next day, German soldiers invaded Poland and World War II broke out.
same
When the Iraqi army invaded Kuwait in 1990
In order to get the Bush administration in the United States to intervene
The Kuwaiti government sent a 16-year-old girl to the U.S. Congress to testify publicly.
Said how cruel Iraqi soldiers are
Grab the baby from the incubator
This allowed the Americans to join the first Persian Gulf War in the name of "justice".
But then it was revealed
The whole hearing is basically a scam arranged by the advertising company
The girl who testified was actually a liar actor
By 2003
In order to continue fighting the second Gulf War, the United States overthrew Hussein in Iraq
The Bush administration made fake photos
Lie to the Americans that Iraq has a laboratory for the development of destructive weapons
It is the dissemination of these false information that rationalizes the war action
And the U.S. government is very smart to prevent the "truth" from being discovered
Because during the Vietnam War
U.S. allows war reporters to report freely
Led many reporters to expose the bloody images of the Vietnam War
Aroused the disgust of Americans and launched a large-scale anti-Vietnam war movement
So the U.S. government has learned its lesson
Can no longer allow war reporters to move freely
Changed to only allow "embedded journalists" (embedded journalists)
That the reporter must follow the military unit
So they can only record what the officers want them to record
This is why
In the news about the Iraq war
You can’t even see the civilians being attacked
I can only see a clean picture of both sides firing
So on the one hand, the government creates fake news
On the one hand, it prevents people from discovering the truth to achieve political goals
So how should we distinguish fake news?
First of all, we must first understand the nature of media
The original text of the media Medium is an intermediary for expressing content
That is, we must pass through an intermediary when receiving information
For example, old media: newspapers, radio and television
Or new media: blogs, social media sites, audio-visual platforms
There is a major difference between the old media and the new media
In the old media, there will be a distinction between objective factual reports and subjective personal opinions.
Journalists usually try to be as neutral as possible when reporting the news
Because the job of a reporter is to spread correct information
But in the new media
Objective facts and subjective opinions are often confused
The audience will follow an internet celebrity blogger Youtuber
Just want to hear their subjective remarks
Without asking them to remain neutral
But when posting on social media
And often have to discuss some basic facts and information
At this time, subjective and objective problems will arise
Because the nature of new media is that everyone can express opinions
They are not necessarily professionally trained media personnel
So you may believe it if you see fake news on the Internet
Spread the wrong information
In other words, social media is actually a breeding ground for fake news
For example, during the 2016 U.S. presidential election
Trump claims that the Washington Post and the New York Times have joined forces with the Democrats to create fake news
Want to discredit him and prevent him from being elected
I'm not going to give you a question , you are fake news. I'm not going to give you a question. You are fake news!
Trump said I don’t need the media, no fake news
I can tell the truth through Twitter
But then the TV station also discovered that Trump was also creating fake news on Twitter.
This makes the word "fake news" a global keyword
"Fake news" means someone deliberately falsified
So news content is purposeful deception
But when all the media think they represent the "truth" side
How should the public judge it?
Like at Trump’s 2017 inauguration
The White House spokesperson claimed that 1.5 million people attended
This was immediately questioned by reporters
Because from the photo, the number of Trump’s inauguration is obviously smaller than that of Obama’s inauguration.
Trump’s advisers argued that this is an alternative fact.
Fake news makes
the credibility of the entire White House press office questioned. It undermines the credibility of the entire White House press office…
Do not over-dramatize the matter rendered
Do not be so overly dramatic about it , Chuck.
You say this is a lie
What ... You're saying it's a falsehood.
But Sean
Spicer, our press secretary, gave alternative facts to that.
What? Alternative facts?
Wait wait, alternative facts?
But the concept of proposing this alternative fact is itself contradictory
Because the fact is that it can be tested
But most of the time the news came out
It’s not easy for us to judge the authenticity
So the author pointed out that we have several ways to distinguish fake news:
The first is to confirm the first-hand source of information
Did the news report mention where the news came from?
If not, you must remain skeptical
If so, you can check the source of this information.
Take a look at the person in charge of the website and who is the funder behind it?
What kind of content does this website usually publish? Is the other content credible?
For example, when Taiwan was arguing about the legalization of same-sex marriage in 2018
A post went viral in Line’s elders group saying
"200,000 people in France took to the streets to demand the abolition of same-sex marriage because the price paid by society is too great."
But later according to the verification of the French Association in Taiwan
It was just a small parade of more than 20,000 people
Most people in France are not against same marriage
If you go to the source of this news
You will find that it originated from the website of a religious group that opposes gender equality
So the first step in identifying fake news is to trace the source of the news
Second step
To see if other media reported the same thing
If it's really unexpected news
Then every media will be rushing to report, not just a few reports
But if there are only personal Facebook posts or a few media reports
Be careful that it may be wind operation or unconfirmed fake news
For example, after developing a domestic vaccine in Taiwan
Various rumors and fake news appeared on Facebook and Line
For example, "The government forces the nation to vaccinate domestically produced vaccines and impose penalties if they don't vaccinate."
It’s even more exaggerated to say that vaccines are biological and chemical weapons that will affect human health.
These were later proved to be false news
So if you don’t see every media reporting this news
You have to remain suspicious that the source of this source may not yet be confirmed
The third way to identify fake news is to pay attention to their pictures and audiovisual materials
Many methods of making fake news are actually very simple
Is to match a picture or video with wrong text
Then look at the picture and break the story and add a decoy title
Can easily make fake news
For example, before the referendum in Taiwan last year
Circulate a video on the Internet
It is said that the DPP treats hundreds of tables for a referendum and Taiwan will be destroyed by them.
But after verification
This video is actually a networking party organized by the chairman of the Tainan City Council
The whole party has nothing to do with the referendum
This is the typical method of making fake news. Look at the picture and break the story.
Finally, the fourth way to identify fake news is
Is to see the opinions of professionals
Are there any professionals who comment on this topic?
Or are there any more professional people who come out to check the truth?
For example, in 2020, the Kuomintang Facebook posted a video of a pig twitching
Said that this was the result of eating clenbuterol, but then the Council of Agriculture came out to refute the rumors
Said this film is a film that the United States promotes rapid slaughter
I didn’t say I ate ractopamine
So watching the movie and telling stories like this is also creating fake news
It may even violate the social order maintenance law
So before I’m not sure what the content of the video is,
Don't shoot when you see the dark shadow
If you can’t tell whether the news is true
You can also confirm on various verification platforms
For example, TFC Taiwan Fact Checking Center "LINE Message Verification" or "Mygopen"
Build a trusted source verification platform
Develop the habit of independent thinking
During the epidemic last year, a false message ``advocating the removal of the Line account of the disease butler'' broke out
Make more and more people start to doubt
In the past few years, Taiwanese social media
Is there any Chinese cyber army engaged in cognitive warfare behind the scenes?
Which is the so-called small pink
Specialize in distributing fake news on the Internet
Although there is no detailed empirical research in Taiwan
But we can first take a look at the experience of other countries
First is the example of climate science
Many energy companies in the West have been pressured by the environmental protection movement in recent decades
Began to think of ways to change the public’s perception of these corporate images
For example, British Petroleum (BP) spends a lot of money to help itself "greenwash"
Originally BP referred to The British Petroleum Company (British Petroleum)
But because too many environmentalists have criticized
So in 2001
BP changed the name to Beyond Petroleum (beyond petroleum)
Even the trademark has been changed to a green look
Help yourself "greenwash" through various news propaganda
Another more typical case of cognitive warfare is Russia
4.5 million people in Germany can speak Russian
These people usually watch Russian news as a source of information
So the Russian government started in 2014
Broadcasting the channel "Russia Today" in Germany
And this channel is actually operated by a Russian state-owned enterprise
So news content is also the voice of the Russian government
Under the Putin regime in 2015
A company called "Internet Research Institute" appeared in St. Petersburg
Lyudmila Savchuk said
Her job is to praise Putin’s policies on the Internet
All the nets work in a tall building twice a day
A shift is engaged in cognitive warfare on the Internet for 12 hours without sleep
The study found that between 2015 and 2017
The Russian Internet Research Institute has applied for more than 4,000 accounts
Engage in big internal propaganda on Twitter and Facebook IG
In 2018, the U.S. government even sued the Internet research institute
Because they are suspected of using cognition to fight
Interfering with the U.S. presidential election to inspire political opposition
So the 2016 U.S. presidential election will be so polarized
In fact, the Russian cyber army is behind the scenes
The same thing happened in Turkey
"Turkish Spring" occurred in Turkey in 2013
The protesters at that time used social media to contact the protest movement
This taught the Turkish government a lesson
It’s not enough to use the old media for political propaganda
Must use the new media’s cyber forces
So during Erdogan’s reign
The government has raised more than 6,000 cyber troops
This incident was later revealed by WikiLeaks
Confirm that the Turkish government is really engaged in cognitive warfare in private
You might think that thousands of people don’t sound like a lot
But in fact these cyber soldiers who are hired to work
Programs that can use "soft robots" (bots)
Create several fake accounts on social media
These fake accounts are actually computer programs
But it looks like a real person will post comments, like and share
As long as these fake accounts leave a message under a post at the same time
Makes people think that most people think that way
At this time you will be influenced and influenced by opinions
In this way, the cyber army can successfully achieve cognitive warfare
The problem with this fake account is serious enough
Before the 2017 German election, all major political parties agreed not to use software robots
There is even a study pointed out
Fan pages of political figures
Probably nearly one-third are not real people but fake accounts
But at the same time we have to pay attention
The reason why these fake accounts are so popular
In fact, it’s because there are more accounts to post and share on social media
Platforms like Facebook and Twitter can earn more advertising profits from them
In other words
The more fake accounts, the more profitable social platforms are
Of course, these platforms cannot take the initiative to stop the emergence of fake accounts.
We talked about in the video about monitoring capitalism before
Social platforms will use algorithms to record your browsing content
Then automatically generate other related content for you to see
So you will spend more time on these platforms
Companies can also earn more advertising profits
But this kind of algorithm will trap people in the stratosphere
For example, I only see news from the political parties I support
But mistakenly thought that the wind direction of the whole society is the same
But actually you just see your own mirror
And can't hear a voice different from you
Internet actor Eli Pariser calls this "filter bubbles"
In fact, the stratosphere we often talk about
When this kind of stratosphere effect encounters fake news, things become more difficult
For example, after Obama became president of the United States,
A fake news went viral on the opposition’s Facebook channel
Saying that Obama was not born in the U.S. so he cannot become the president of the U.S.
This stratospheric effect is so powerful
By 2010
One in four Americans believe that Obama is not American
Is it possible to get rid of the influence of the stratosphere?
The author made several practical suggestions:
1. May wish to use multiple search engines, not just google
2. Frequently clear your browsing history and cookies
3. Follow your own fan page on Facebook and keep an open mind
4. Install some additional components to prevent being monitored and chased like Ghostery
Finally, you might as well try "digital detox" (digital detox)
Is on social media
You don’t need to participate in the discussion and you don’t need to reply to the message right away.
If the news media or opinion leaders on Facebook post a post
You respond right away
It was a hit
Because what they want is your click-through browsing
The more you respond without thinking about your intuition, the better
On the contrary, we should take back control of our time
Don’t waste your life on responding to information fed to us by social media
Today’s video introduces the historical identification of fake news and the stratospheric effect.
I hope everyone can use digital media more consciously in the future
Regardless of whether there is cognitive warfare by the Chinese cyber army
As long as citizens have sufficient media literacy skills, they will not be led by the nose
If you want to learn more about media literacy
You are welcome to read this "Root Down!" Citizens' Speculative Course in German Education"
Recommended to all citizens who need to learn media interpretation
You are also welcome to share this video to all elder groups who will post false messages on Line