Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Some netizens have been saying that they hope I can talk more about love topics.
So today I want to discuss with you
Does unconditional love exist?
If exists
So what should it look like?
A friend said to me a few days ago
I hope I can be in the eyes of my partner.
It's always cute
No matter whether you are happy or sad today
Is it clear and firm or confused and fragile?
The other party can like me steadily
No random fluctuations or ups and downs
I think this is a very real and common desire.
I have heard friends express more than once
The desire for unconditional love
But people usually have these two concerns
One is that unconditional love is unrealistic.
Unrealistic
Because we are all finite individuals.
My strength, patience, and understanding
It is impossible to be endless
And our love
It seems that they are always inseparable from each other.
or traits
For example, I like the other person's gentleness, beauty, and intelligence.
But these conditions may weaken at some point.
Then this kind of love is based on conditions.
On the other hand
If your love for me
It's not based on my traits.
So in theory
You can love anyone
In this case
Why do you love me
Instead of loving others
So unconditional love
More like an extraordinary, supernatural love
As if only God could do it
Another common concern is
Thinking of unconditional love can be dangerous
Assuming someone can really accept me to a great extent
Like me
So will I
Losing the constraints and restrictions of others
And become more lazy and decadent
Some of my dark thoughts
Will it pop up uncontrollably?
in addition
When I get used to each other
After your unconditional love for me
Will I become more dependent and weaker?
Unable to adapt to real life
Finally, more dependent on each other
Being manipulated by the other party?
So today's video
Let’s briefly sort out these issues.
Before the video starts, let me say
If you have anything you want to discuss with me
And consulting topics
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to today's topic.
In fact, the reason why we feel
Unconditional love is so difficult
It’s because of our understanding of the word “unconditional”
There is a deviation
Chinese people tend to think unconditionally
Understanding as no difference
If we say that in Chinese culture
There is something like unconditional love
This is reflected in the Confucian idea of ​​benevolence.
For example, Mencius said, "Respect the old as my own, and respect the old of others."
Love your own children as well as other people’s children”
The Analects of Confucius talks about "giving generously to the people and helping the masses"
"Love all people and be close to your family" etc.
Let’s not talk about these thoughts about love
This has never really been realized in Chinese history.
But this kind of love
To be precise, it should be called indiscriminate love
It emphasizes
It is a broad recognition of the category of human beings.
That is, everyone can be taught.
can be incorporated into the ethical code
On this basis
Can provide you with physical care and nurturing
But this care
Obviously not including your soul
and a unique understanding of life experience
For example, "Respect the elderly as well as the elderly of others"
It means providing care for the elderly
Rather than understanding and exploring
Unique life experiences of the elderly
Of course everyone's body is different
For example, I am 1.82 meters tall
You are 1.65 meters tall
However, this external difference is always quantifiable
Non-essential
But everyone's soul is absolutely unique.
Therefore, love based on physical care
Tend to see people as the same
For example, parents cook for their children, buy clothes for them
Support this child to go to school
But I don't care what the kids think.
Parents also feel
I have given this child so much love.
Why is this child still disobedient?
Because parents just put their children
As a physical body with physical needs
As for the child's spirit
It's not much different from other children.
Or non-essential
But love itself
First of all, it should be reflected in
Love the uniqueness of each other's soul and spirit
Perhaps it is also due to the Chinese culture's understanding of love
It's mainly physical.
therefore
Love in Chinese culture is more likely to be attached to group
Rather than individual
for example
Compassion for "all people in the world" and concern for the country and the people
But not good at loving specific people
Not good at digging into the depths of the individual soul
In addition, the Chinese culture understands maternal love
It is also indiscriminate love
Mother
Is a selfless and stable physical caregiver
Can take care of many children
hard working
Even if I don't like it, I will tolerate it.
Of course it's respectable.
But it is not necessarily a spiritual love
The reason why people imagine that kind of indiscriminate love
It's also because I'm fed up with the differences in reality.
Love based on rewards and punishments
For example, if you do well on the test
Your parents will praise you and affirm you.
You're not doing well
Your lover treats you coldly
then
The parties formed this belief
Others love me
Not because I am myself
Because I met their expectations.
However
This achievement is always unstable and temporary.
I can achieve my goal today
Tomorrow may not be the case
I'm still alive
Anxiety and doubt about one's own value
So I began to long for someone
Stop loving me based on my performance
I hope the other party can give me a sense of right and wrong.
Love without distinction
Of course this kind of love
It is always better than the love based on rewards and punishments.
To be gentler and more advanced
And in reality, not many people can get this kind of love
But this kind of love is still not the deepest
Because it also doesn't really see who I am
No one has been established
It can distinguish my differences and development
And in my differences
Stay true to who I am
A higher level of love with liking and trusting
That is to say
True unconditional love is not blind to differences
It is to maintain trust in identity in the midst of difference.
Understand this kind of love
We must first answer this question
After all the changes people have gone through
Is there still a me that remains the same?
That is to say
Can a person grow, struggle, change, and go through the trough?
Still maintaining some core coherence
This coherence
It's not just consistency.
For example, always cheerful and beautiful
It is a deeper purpose and tendency.
Identity
This is a long-standing question in Western philosophy.
for example
The human body is made up of cells
Each cell has its own life cycle.
Every once in a while
Many cells will complete a round of metabolism
The cells that make up my body
Maybe it’s different than it was a few years ago.
But why do I still think I am me?
Instead of becoming someone else?
certainly
An object
It is always composed of its components
Left its build
It is difficult to say that this object exists.
But
Can construction alone bring this object into existence?
for example
We built a palace with several blocks
Then I built a bridge with these blocks.
The build did not change during this process
But a palace is obviously not the same as a bridge
For example
A banana is placed in front of us
We can see shapes and colors with our eyes
Can taste with mouth
Can touch it with your hands
But we can't see the banana itself
Because the concept of "banana"
In our minds
Although a particular banana may be rotten,
Will be eaten
But the concept of "banana" does not change with time and space
And change
It is possible to maintain unity
The same is true for people
Socrates believed
Human Action
Though affected by his flesh and blood
But in the final analysis, it serves his purpose
Limbs and flesh are only tools
The human body is also designed for a purpose.
He said: "...because the eyes are very delicate
Just use your eyelids to protect it
Like two doors
Open when visual is necessary
And close it when you sleep
And make the eyelashes grow like curtains
Lest the wind hurt your eyes..."
This makes people feel that this must have been arranged and planned
To make it all fit together just right
Socrates attributed the essence of man to the soul
Not the body
He believes
The soul can exist apart from the body
Immortal things
That is, the soul is the "unchanging" thing of a person.
Man has a soul and purpose given by God
Hence the motto "know thyself"
In Socrates' view
As long as you know your purpose
Take your attention away from the physical nature
Turning to invisible purpose and thought
Aristotle used the terms "material cause" and "formal cause"
To explain this problem
In his opinion
The causes of all things can be attributed to four reasons
Material cause, formal cause, efficient cause and final cause
These four causes are mainly material cause and formal cause.
Aristotle believed that formal cause is more important than material cause.
More important and essential
A poet wrote a poem on paper
The material of this poem is ink and paper
But the formal sound of this poem is the organizational form of the text
Obviously the essence of this poem lies in its form
Even though it's carved in stone
Or entered into the computer
It doesn't affect the fact that it is a good poem.
The poem itself still retains its identity
In terms of people
Although human survival requires material foundation
Human knowledge of the world cannot be separated from sensory experience
However
Sensory experience is only a medium of knowledge, not its source.
Unifying and integrating sensory experiences
It is the rational soul within man.
certainly
Humans are much more complex than any natural object.
People's lives seem to be constantly changing
But these changes are not random.
It revolves around some deep purpose.
The real "I" is not just me at this moment
It is a stretch from the past to the future.
A life that continues to grow and unfold
My past and future are not separate
Instead, it constitutes an organic life narrative
A coherent spiritual curve
My current thoughts and views
All my past life experiences are condensed
As we said in our video on April 12th
One's philosophical view
Seemingly the product of rational thinking
But in fact
Often comes from his emotional structure and life experience
Many philosophers have been thinking about their lives
They are all echoes of my early experiences.
It's just more complex language and logic.
Wrapping Up
So unconditional love
Should include
Trust and appreciation for this unfolding process
This appreciation
It is higher than the appreciation of all specific virtues and abilities.
I love the other person's personal history
The process and manner in which his life unfolded
This narrative is dynamic and evolving.
tends to be complicated
But no matter how the other side develops
I can appreciate the other person's development.
Even if the parties develop into a
He himself is not sure of the direction
But I believe
The other person will tend to be true to himself in this process.
In this sense
We say it is unconditional.
That is the complexity and possibility of loving someone
And encourage this complexity and possibility
Of course
This first requires you to see the complexity of a person
This love built on complexity
In fact, it goes beyond our general understanding of love.
General understanding of love
Often based on specific moral qualities
Or above ability
For example, I love her kindness, wealth, and compassion.
I admire her for her profound thoughts and values.
etc.
These are certainly valuable qualities.
However, these are only phenomenal.
On top of these phenomena
Humans also have a kind of ontological morality
It is a continuous process of self-exploration.
This exploration
It may make a person more and more complicated
Even denying your own ideas
Makes the parties more confused
But this change and complexity
The deepest and innermost part of a person
This is somewhat similar to what Kant calls the virtue of ontology.
Kant believes
In real life
Moral behavior promoted through education and custom
It is just the virtue of phenomenon
At the ontological level
There is always a possibility of freedom
This never-lost possibility of transcendence
This is the true virtue of the entity
A person's truer self
Of course, this still sounds a bit abstract.
I will give you an example.
Rogers in "The Formation of the Personality"
Listed
The many ways a person can be their true self
Stay away from personality masks
Stop meeting other people's expectations, etc.
But he specifically mentioned three criteria:
One is "transformation towards a generative process"
Another is "the turn to existential complexity"
The last one is "turning to openness to experience"
certainly
These three standards seem to me to be the same.
What is the process of transformation towards becoming?
Even Rogers found it hard to describe
He said: We don't have a very suitable ready-made word
Express this feeling
But the parties seem to be more open
Becoming a process
A fluidity, a change
One party said:
When I'm here
When I can no longer predict my own behavior
Things are definitely changing.
I am even surprised that I say these things
I see something new every time
It’s an adventure
That is to say
He began to
Appreciate it as a flowing process
As Kierkegaard put it:
"A real individual
Continuously in the process of forming
For him
It's like for a writer
Same as his writing style
Because I haven't accomplished anything.
Personality is just a style
In this way, the most common expression
Through repeated rebirth
Become his new existence"
The complexity of existence and openness to experience
refers to
The client is increasingly able to
Be open, friendly and accepting
This is actually not easy
When a person feels something
Long suppressed by oneself
Or when the emotions do not match your own self-identity
He often resists and denies at first.
Until he is in an atmosphere of acceptance and tolerance
To gradually begin to experience these emotions
These emotions
May lead people in an unknown direction
However, as long as a person feels
Unconditional attention and love
He will realize
This new experience is a friendly resource
Rather than a terrible enemy
An example of this can be given
for example
A friend of mine was very angry with his father.
He feels that he is growing up
Not getting enough acceptance and care from my father
Experiencing a lot of trauma
But one day he suddenly discovered
I seem to be deliberately suppressing
A recent chat with my father
In that chat
They get along very well.
He found that recalling and telling these things was somewhat tender.
It seems more difficult to talk about than to talk about the trauma
Although
These memories did not make him hate his father any less
But it made his emotions less pure
It tends to be more complicated
Why is tenderness more difficult to express than trauma?
This is actually very common
When we hate a person or group of people
And immersed in this recognition
We will also ignore
Inner experiences that are inconsistent with your identity
Because once these experiences are evoked
We may doubt
Is your anger justified?
Another friend
On Chinese Bureaucracy and Ideology
Having negative perception
However, from one day
She has close access to many civil servants and police officers
Spend time with them
Her feelings began to become complicated.
She feels that everyone is alive.
Individuals with their own emotions and rationality
Screws and machines are not unreasonable
Human nature is universal
At least not that big of a difference
Although
She still has a negative view of China's system
But this close proximity experience
It also makes her emotions more complex and delicate.
Although
She still has a negative view of the Chinese system
But she
No intense hatred or demonized fear
Her emotions
From the ideological polarity
Turning to a higher level understanding of universal human nature
From the above discussion we can see that
Tends toward complex and delicate emotions
It will make us feel our inner self
Whether it is love or hate
Or the concept of good and evil
It's not so pure anymore.
I might have thought
My justice is reflected in the fight against evil
But if evil things weren't so evil
Just relaxed a little bit
So is my justice still justified?
The parties may doubt
Have I betrayed some sacred belief?
Betrayed my group
Have I become immoral and evil?
When I came out of that intense love and hate
When you pull out
Am I still myself?
However, this tendency towards complexity and openness
It seems magical to me.
Although
This tendency towards complexity and richness
It seems that it will make people become impure
Become hesitant
It doesn't seem to be the same as the morality we know.
However
This state is actually the foundation of all morality
Morality as we understand it in everyday life
All based on a certain kind of pure imagination
Or in other words, it is all particularistic morality
For example, loyalty must be unwavering.
Absolute love should be total giving and dedication
No calculation or consideration
Being brave means never being afraid
There was no hesitation or retreat.
However
These seem noble and clear morals
It is not based on the insight into people's true psychology.
If we ignore the complexity of human beings,
Full acceptance and awareness of one’s own richness and shadow
Then all morality cannot sustain itself
Therefore, this fearless self-exploration
It is the most profound and most worthy of appreciation of a person.
And an other can understand and accept this state
Ability to appreciate another person
The process of becoming yourself
In my opinion
This is unconditional love
Of course people are together
It is impossible to have a purely spiritual connection
Any of our relationships
To a large extent
They are inseparable from the daily necessities of life.
Trivial and realistic things
The proportion of purely spiritual communication may not be very high
But this is first of all the difference between having and not having
Even if this kind of pure spiritual resonance and trust
Only short-lived and weak
Our Relationship
It goes beyond the functional mutual assistance.
They are witnesses to each other's souls.
That’s all for today’s video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
Or you want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!