Is that the sense you get that nations are lining up to cut a deal with us right now , There's a risk premium in US assets. T hat wasn't there before . And. The question is , how big is that risk premium going to sell? And where is it going to sell , A nd ,? And that , in part, , is going to depend on how . C oher ent ,. The new system is , you ,. And and is there , does the US credibly commit to a new system or a series of deals , I do believe that there are a series of like minded countries . We very much like the US to be part of that group , But like minded countries who will develop deeper trading and security relationships as a consequence of this . It's the world of second vests . It's. Not what we would all want , but it's the logical thing to do . T. He . P rime Minister wrote does this podcast . Find you . I'm in Montreal right now? , P ro fessor . The majority of the world spends . their news is 10 minutes domestic and 20 minutes international in the US . we're kind of self abso red , narcissistic . We. Don't talk a lot about other countries . I think most people have heard of you . have seen you on TV , but don't know much about you . Can. You get a sort of your backstory , your origin story . Y eah . S ure ,. So I was born in the A rct. Ic , the north of C, an ada , a place called Fort, S, mith, , Northwest, T, err itor ies . I grew up in E, dmo, nto n., and those who might follow hockey was the days of Wayne Gesky when he was playing for the others . That was when I was a kid . I went away to university in the US . and then and then I worked on Wall Street or versions of Wall Street or worked for Goldman Sachs in London and Tokyo and New York, and ultimately, C, an ada ,. And then I went in about 20 years ago to become the deputy governor of the Bank of C, an ada , which is the equivalent of the Federal Reserve in the U. I ended up being the governor during the financial crisis of 2008 . So worked with ,. You know, through that process of the financial crisis . We had a , good financial crisis . If. You can have a good financial crisis in C, an ada . We got through it better than anyone else. Emerged stronger . a bank stayed together., and then ultimately , I kind of slightly bizarrely . I was asked to become governor of the Bank of E ngl and . So I became the first foreigners governor of the Bank of E, ngl and , and I did that through the . P eri od of the Brexit referendum , as it turned out, and in the aftermath of that and then came back C an ada . 202 0 right in the middle of C ovid ,. You had , I think you probably had a better experience during C ovi I d., if I listening to your podcast . if I read it quickly than I did , and then I worked. I worked did a lot of work on climate change. for the United Nations sort of pro bono and organizing the financial sector to help address climate change, but also at the same time, , I worked for B rook field , which is a big asset manager . And I was Shere B loom berg . And. Then, as of the start of J, anuar y., I first ran for the leadership of the Liberal P arty , which is one of the main parties here. And winning that became prime minister about a month ago . and now I'm running for election . We have much last point , much shorter elections in the United S tates . Our campaign is 37 days . and we've got two weeks roughly left to go . So, a big friend of the potd is Iian B renner , the geopolitical strategist ,. And he was on the pod last week, and he described you as a open quote , generational mind for Canada on the global stage , close quote . In your view , what role does Canada play on the global stage. ? So, we play , I mean ,. We play several roles . We're, a member of the G 7. In fact ,. We are chair of the G7 this year . so I'm chair of the G 7. We're a member of the C omm on wealth , which is the old UK grouping. We're member of the F ranran cop hony , which is the obviously the Franrancophone grouping of about 60 countries So. We have our role in several different. Let's call it organization. , self-appointed organizations are grouping I. Think one of the roles we play potentially in the new or the emerging global order is partly based on our assets. We are an energy and emerging energy superpower in all forms of energy ,. We're one of the largest critical mineral suppliers in the world. We're pretty good in AI ,. A lot of people claim that, but we're I think legitimately claiming that. And so we can play a role is a country that believes in open open markets. , open systems, believes in trade , open ideas, , diversity ,. We can play a role with . Y eah . L ike minded countries to kind of reconstruct that bit of that bit of the international order , which has been , I'm in M ont real ,. They would say B ove , the it's been upended in the course of more intensively in the last few months , but a process that really began with the financial crisis 15 years ago . Y eah . A nd just for our listeners ,. The elephant in the room is T er , I'm going to get to that ,. But I want to start with if you were to. So typically in the US , I. Imagine the same way in Canada when a new leader is elected , assuming you get elected , they have sort of a honeymoon period and an opportunity to get more done in their first year ,. More grace, if you will, , then in the next two or three years , what would you identify as a two or three biggest issues facing Canada? And what's your agenda , if you could pick two or three things, you're really going to go hard at your first year as prime minister ,. What are those songs . Y eah . As you just suggested , I'll set tariffs aside and focus in on three things first is having free trade, actually, within C an ada ,. We have, you know, basically 13 economies here, 10 different provinces and territories, all with their own rules ,. It's hard to move credentials, and sometimes goods and services across the country far harder than it should be. So a process, a very quick process of free trade. And by the way, , just to put orders of magnitude on this . Y eah . Y ou know, a reasonable estimate of the economic benefit of that is bigger than the economic hit from the worst version of the Trump tariffs, so we can kind of give ourselves more than others can . Second thing is we have a huge housing problem here, and particularly, obviously, for younger Canadians. First and foremost, we need to double the rate of housing, and we need to I won't go into all the details I'm happy to , but we need some major reforms in order to do that ,. We can do it in a way that actually leverages, you know, the Canadian supply chain technology and all the lumber, we potentially won't be able to send Southbound to the US. And then the third thing , look, the world's fluid , I'm afraid this kind of comes towards tariffs , but I think the trading system is going to get reordered fairly quickly. And so in the course of the first year, the question is , well, who are we going to deepen our relationships with other than United States? And those relationships last point are both economic insecurity, the world's a much more dangerous . ed place security concerns are top of the list. So who in Europe or European Union is a whole UK, who in A sia , where are we going to partnership? If I can say one last thing, Scott is . Y ouk now , just being shaken so hard by what's happening in the United S tates , Canadians are very open to all of those . P rio rit ies like people are up for big things. , they're coming together, and they're willing to do big things because they know they have to do big things because the world's changed so much . W ell, let's use that as a segue into tariffs. So I haven't checked my Apple Watch in the last two minutes ,. So I don't know a state of things, right? Now. ' my understanding Canada's are are our largest trading partner. Now we tend to be obsessed for C hina , but you're our largest trading partner. No where're your most important. Yeah. So give us the state of play're. You're the man representing our largest trading partner, economically as to the best of your knowledge, described a state of play between what is happening between the US in C, an ada ,. Where does it sit at this moment? So I'll start with the the bad news or the as we would call the unjustified news, which is what tariffs are in place. We have still in place today, tariffs that were originally justified because of fentanyl fentanyl coming across the border from Canada, just for the listeners who haven't track this less than 1 % of the fentanyl imported into U nited . S tates comes from Canada. In fact, , you've got a sophisticated audience. So I can say things like 19 basis points of the ventanyl comes across the border from C, an ada . we've taken major steps to reinforce the border, drones, , helicopters, , other things, and it's fallen by a further 990 % over the course of the last three months, but those tariffs hit a wide range of goods in Canada, hit a wide range of goods. And there's a few car votes for that, but it's hitting hundreds of billions of good. And those are 25 % tariffs from the United States, then we are also caught. Secondly, we're also caught in the steel and aluminum tariffs, which are this national security tariffs , socalled 2 32 tariffs ,. We are the largest supplier of aluminum in the United States. We're one of the most important suppliers of steel to the United States, and you can roll those up into hundreds of thousands of jobs in the US, depending on Canadian steel and aluminum. And then the third thing is, we are caught in the auto tariffs as people probably know. But I'll just personalize it. No , this fact . T here was something called the auto pack , which was signed the year I was born . , 60 years ago . And. We have had an increasingly integrated auto system with the United States for 60 years . It got tighter with the Canada US free trade agreement 40 years ago. And then with NAFTA and the successor . So literally , you know, , these companies and the supply chains , the main parts suppliers. They're virtually fully integrated . And. Now into the middle of this is coming 25 % US tariffs , which are , you know, , in an industry. As you know, , that has , you know, , 5 , 7 % margins . I mean ,. This is this is absolutely damaging . So. We have three sets of tariffs . We are not subject yet to thepro socalled, reciprocal tariffs to the US . So. The state of the relationship is strained to say the least , because all of these tariffs are in violation of what you call USMCA , We call C ozma . the same trade agreement . The good news or the better news is that . . T hre e weeks ago or so , President Trump and I spoke. And we agreed that following the Canadian election , there would be the beginning of a negotiation of of a comprehensive , a new comprehensive relationship, , economic security . So. We are ,. We are in the queue ,. So to speak for those discussions . It strikes me that these actions are about to inspire what they envision, that is a tremendous amount of deal making , but deal making around us. T hatt his ,. It just seems logical. This is a thesis , and I want you to validate or nullify it. B ut if I'm a G7 nation and I have a trading partner that I used to be able to count on that was mutually very prosperous . And. Now, I just not only can't count on them , but have no idea who I'm waking up next to that. It's incredible motivation to start establishing dialogue with other nations is respond to that thesis is Canada aggressively and actively trying to reroute around America right? Now. Y eah . W ell , I would say, , you know, , trade is a world of and . So, you know, ,. It's it's a positive sum game. , as you know, , both, you do it right , Both sides win . It's not a zero sum game . So I might not choose the phrase around A merica ,. But obviously, , you , look , if we ' re , if we've got excess capacity, or we have things we're going to develop , I'll use the example of critical minerals, where we're a big player, who, with whom are we going to trade . Who? Can we rely on.? You know, , were we're sitting here ,. We supply 70 % of the potash to the United S tates . You know , one of the most important components of fertilizer ,. 70 % . Y eah . A nd? There is a 25 % tariff being put on potash . So. When you think about it , W ell , geez , maybe I might want to take another , I'll call it a commodity , even though critical metals and minerals or more than that . If. We're going to develop those . Maybe. We want to develop them with a supply chain to someone who's not going to slap a tariff like that on. So that validating your thesis . We ,. We , yeah ,. We have begun to intensify discussions with other , other countries , other trading blocks . We have a pretty good set of trading trade deals in place . We have free trade deal with E uro pe . We have free trade . We're part of . T. He what was called the trans Pacific Part in A sia . So. We have a number of those , but we're we're looking to reinforce them. and look, we ' re . We are hopeful ,. Maybe hopeful isn't the right word , but we're open to , open is a better way to put it to a restart of the US trading relationship provided. There's willingness on the other side, and we can come to one of those positive sum deals . So I would imagine you speak to a lot of other G7 lit or G20 lit . W hat ' s the general consensus around American leadership right now ? And I realize that you have more restraint and are a bit more Or tangine or diplomatic ,. But . W hat is the thesis among this group of world leaders around what is going on here? ,. How do they explain it? ,? How do you explain it to each other? Or can you explain it to each other because quite frankly, here in the US . A lot of this doesn't even make sense to us , and this is our leadership . W ell , I think the first thing is to recognize, as I have said, and a number of those other leaders have said , including G7 leaders ,. Is that the system as we knew it is over . R ight W hen, the anchor of the system is fundamental has done a series of measures that the US has done , but also set out a series of objectives, , and I'll come back to that , but set out a series of objectives that are just inconsistent with the way the system has been operating for decades, right? Basically, since the fall, the Berlin wall intensified since then So, you recognize that, that system anchored on the US is over . that then leads to how do you react to it.? There's partly the negotiation with the US and which you've been focused on ,. But then it's also how do we deal with each other , which we've also touched on in terms of what the US has trying to accomplish . I think it's you know, , I take go back to . P eter Thiiel of 10 years ago, saying, take Donald Trump literally and seriously , but taking literally and seriously, and you know, , they looking to . To balance, where to extent possible , to balance trade , which is not the way we think about things , but is the way the US thinks about things . And, you know, , you do get into odd situations like C an ada ,. Where we actually run a. A merica has a trade surplus with Canada in goods . The. Only reason there's an overall deficit with Canada is because of basically oil imports . W ell ,. If you don't want our oil imports , that will be a bit of a problem for a period of time because . Y ouk now , the only other option for the refineries that take Canadian oil is V ene zuela . And. That's you know ,. They're just banned those those imports as well . So there. It's not the logic isn't entirely consistent . Let's put it that way . But I. Think at the core . Re cognizing. This desire for more balanced trade . And. So from the US administration, , question , I think , in our mind, , is there are some industries , autos, particularly . A eros pace would have another element of this ,. And then a number of commodity. And there are a couple industries that are so integrated that it's hard to see why for US competitiveness . L et alone North American competitiveness . it makes sense to pull them apart . That would be our argument . And then there's other industries , Forest products, , steel , aluminum as three big examples, where we're agriculture , potash . I gave that example . N ike l , I could go on where we're such huge suppliers and such a safe , secure supplier A gain ,. It doesn't really , to us makes sense that, that would be displaced or tariff . So , you know, ,. We've seen that this , the trade policy is evolving as some of these choke points become more evident . And. You know, , I suspect , I suspect, we will see more . Maybe I'll say, one other thing if I could , which is . It strikes me a bit. What in the consistencies of US policy is a desire to have some minimum tariff, if possible. , which . H as a revenue raising element to it. And I think , you know, , tied into US tax policy . that is that is also a possibility here. My understanding is about 99 % of our trade is tariff. Freeee and have 1 % is around things like dairy . haven't we largely been kind of a trade free zone between Canada and the US today . Y eah , yeah , we have . And. Then we have , you know, , like any trading partners , you get the odd trade irritant and you know, , trade dispute , but we have processes to deal with those . And. So . We had a you know, , we have ongoing things around forest products, , sometimes steel and aluminum, and that's handled ,. But yeah, trade is basically tariff free and you when it's your biggest trading partner . P ullin g that apart is is quite costly is costly for both. You know, from a Canadian perspective, and you know, I'm out on the road I'm running for office , I'm talking to lots of Canadians up and down. There is a very strong sense of yeah. This is going to cost us. B ut. We're willing to take the price to restructure our economy in a different direction . Like. It's been such a sense of . I mean, , the word that's used is betrayal . So , you know, , we signed a deal . We've had this partnership . We observe it in good faith . We set up businesses . , you know, , we know lots of A mericans . would like A mericans . but listen to American podcasts . You know , there's such as he , and all of a sudden , you know, , we get these , you know, , these attacks is, which is the way these ,. This is viewed is , okay ,. So it's gonna to cost us for a period of time, and we'll build out and build with others . We ' ll be right back after a quick break . Y ou were the first non Britt to serve to run the Bank of E ngl and . You're sort of the Bo Jackson of a global economic leadership . I've compared this , and it might be a crude analogy ,. But I want you to . I want you to add some color fill in the blanks here. I've described these tariffs as the biggest own goal since B rex it. W hat similarities do you see? And how does that inform a , how you respond to this and be what you think? Ultimately, , the outcome is . W ell. , I think there ' s. T. Here are a lot of similarities, and it starts with the economics , the economics of what's happening, actually briefly describe Brexit. Because just give us the headline news on Brexit So. The headline on Brexit is for a variety of reasons, and many of them not to do with economics , although it was sold as an economic win, but a lot of people know because a reasons of identity and others voted in 2018. If I'll get my dates, right? 201 6 , I, guess for the UK to leave the European Union, and the UK was even more tightly bound in trade and economic relationships with the European Union than Canada is with the United States, including free movement of labor , easy movement of capital , huge trade going both ways you never had to get your product. If your product met, the product standard in the UK didn't have to worry about, you could sell any country in Europe. And so the decision taken , as I, say, for a variety of reasons narrowly but taken to leave the European U nion . I. Remember when it happened in our view at the time . and remember, this was during a period where it was interest rates were at rock. Bottom. In was too low . People were worried about deflation. , blah. , blah. Our view was ,. Okay. ,. What's going to happen is the economy is going to slow . unemployments going to go up. In is going to go up. And. We at the Bank of England are going to have to raise interest rates when this happens . And. By the way, , the currency will also go down. The the currency went down by 20 , 25 % . It's still on the floor relative to where it was still on the floor because you had a big negative . T rades hock , a big loss of wealth , basically future wealth in the currency market, priced it first. and exactly what we expected to happen happen . I mean ,. It happened to happen roughly at the same time as Covid was finishing , but yet a big . Y eah . A gain , I'm relying on your audience , a big negative supply shock to the economy because you ripped up trading relationships, and the productive capacity went down relative to where demand was . So that was inflationary. And combination of that meant UK rates are higher, and it's got a bigger inflation problem. It has had another economies . When. You look at what's happened in the US , the friction put into its trading relationships . . Is going to cause the same thing . It is going to slow the rate of growth of that economy . It is going to affect the dollar . It has affected the dollar negatively ,. As we've seen , It's going to push up prices on the margin . And. So slower economy , higher inflation , higher interest rates , All things being equal . N ow ,. There's a big caveat with what I do. Or there's a qualifier is a better way to put it. T. He UK was a much more open economy . M uch more dependent on Europe that US is more of a closed economy . It depends on the world , but it is ,. It's different orders of magnitude . So. It's same direction , different orders of magnitude . So. There's I think there are a lot of a lot of parallels here. and I, guess maybe the other parallel, if I can add one more . Y eah . W hich remains to be seen ,. But the UK , I would say , and you'll get , I'll get hate mail from UK, some UK listeners ,. But I would say, based on the polling , it's pretty well understood that the economic impact of Brexit has been negative in the UK . . L et ' s say, twotds of the people now understand that . but the path back to being closer to Europe is very difficult politically . It's hard to build rebuild that consensus . They move very slowly. And you think about the situation in the world right now for the UK boy , there's a lot of logic being closer to Europe from trade perspective. And even from a security perspective, , they built this sort of what's called a coalition of the willing with respect to Ukraine because the UK, the US is pulling back from support for U krai ne . by the way, , Canada has stepped up and is part of that largely European coalition of the willing alongside A ustr alia . So. There's a logic to going back to that , but it's hard to go back once you've broken up these relationships. And so the next six . Y es . 12 months in my judgment, , going to be quite important for the United States and for the global trading system ,. Because the question is , okay, , we understand that there's a there , there is a big change or big break with the old system . But. How much of a break is it going to be? And is there going to be a relatively open trading system for . Y eah . I ' m usings quotations here for those listening , like minded countries, , broadly like minded countries . You know , I think of the G7 as being pretty like minded countries . Not surprisingly , you know, , we value liberty free speech , open markets in general. So. Are we going to have a relatively open system amongst ourselves . Or. Is it only going to be with a few countries? Or is it going to be with no countries? I mean that's kind of what to play for here and but the system won't it won't revert to what it was previously . W hen? We're talking about these tariffs. , there's a general sense that or E lilys sa . A talk track from the Trump administration that the US has been taken advantage of by trading partners , including C, an ada , that they've just got the better end of the deal . A nd, the tariffs will help restore some sort of parody or equity in the relationship , respond to that . W ell , I mean, we don't obviously, we don't see it. We don't see it in the following respects, because really, again, , the way the Trump administration is defined. Being quote, , taken advantage of is, do you run a trade deficit? And we can argue about that definition , I wouldn ' t ,. If I lead on my economic training. And my experience I would say, , well, that isn't being taken advantage of it mutual exchange ,. But the US runs a surplus with us. US sells more. What if anyone's being taken advantage of we're being taken advantage of right, because I mean , by that definition? And the only place where . T, hey, run, a deficit is yes. ,. We do ship oil to the United States. Now we happen to ship oil to the United States at a big discount to global prices. So we're being taken advantage of again on that definition . O nth e , on the goods trade side . and we're getting taking advantage because we're selling oil at below good prices . So, we , you know, , we ,. We want our money back. No ,. We don't where we still see the broader benefits of the relationship . And. You know, , I don't think that I'll go back to the auto sector . Y eah . It ' s not going to feel taken advantage of as if these tariffs stay in place. And you know, as you say, , you got to check your phone every once in a while, just to see where things stand. ,. There's a possible exemption on the auto parts side that's coming in in the United States, which we would have said, right, what we did say, right from the star would have to happen because the whole system will grind into a halt without it ,. So some of the mutual advantages will become more or becoming more apparent, and hopefully, the US administration can continue to be nimble . Y eah . My understanding is that you ship us cheap energy or cheap oil . You're, obviously, a very resource abundant nation. We apply our Ip and refining capability ,. And then we sell it at three times the cost . It sounds like it's been pretty mutually beneficial . Y ep , no ,. That's absolutely right . How. Do you . S ee this playing out If. You were attempted to speculate what the relationship is around global trade and tariffs on a macro level ,. And then specifically with Canada and the US. When . W hen, you try to plan an economy similar to way the CEO tries to plan a business . W hat, are you expecting , You have to do scenario planning. Nobody knows. But, what do you think are the most likely scenarios for how this plays out? , Because I mean ,. This is seriously prime minister . We ' re all befutddled by this . The majority of people who understand economics are having a difficult time seeing how this is a big win for the US . We're just ,. We're having a difficult time understanding how we win here. M ay be more people come to the today. They claim there's 75 nations lining up to cut deals with them I that the sense you get that nations are lining up to cut a deal with us right? Now. W ell , short to answer I don't know. This I don't know is on that. Second question. There's a few things that happen here. One is that . T. Here ' s a risk premium in US assets that wasn't there before . And. The question is , how big is that risk premium going to sell? Where is it going to sell? And and that, in part, is going to depend on how . C oher ent, the new system is you? And and is there does the US credibly commit to a new system or a series of deals? Remember, we're, you know, we have we have a trading deal with US that was signed by the current president and which isn't being observe. So I think that's one thing is there's a risk premium on US assets. And if there's a risk premium on US assets than the cost of all other assets around the world is greater right. Like since we're still priced off of price off of US treasuries, for example. So that's one thing I think. Second is I do believe that there are a series of likeminded countries ,. We very much like the US to be part of that group , but likemined countries who will develop deeper trading and security relationships as a consequence of this. It's the world of second best. It's not what we would all want, but it's the logical thing to do. Third thing that's going to happen is that there is going to be much greater focus and I know this . F or facting well ,. This will be a fact if my party is successful in the elections , a much greater focus on domestic drivers of demand. So building at home , building big infrastructure , building millions of houses, building building out our own economies, more domestic procurement, right in a world where we've got excess steel and aluminum capacity , which we will. If the US doesn't change on trade. Well, guess who's steel and aluminum? We're going to buy for a variety of things, guess what? Defense procurement, we're going to do right now. We spend about 75 % of our defense dollars . Go to the United States that, you know, doesn't make a lot of sense if we settle out in a in a more . A rms length relationship with the US . And. That's true . If. It's true for us. ,. It's true for E uro pe , It's true for the UK . And, so we'll all move more domestic and more with each other . And the degree to which that happens . So. This is a world just to be clear . And. You , , I think you intuitively understand what you get this from the start . I . We ' ve got a world where we have higher risk of premium , right , It's cost of capitals more expensive. And we've got a world where people are doing second best things . countriesries are doing second best things . So. It's a world that's more expensive . And. It's more ,. It's not artaric to use a fancy word . Like. It's not totally in and of yourself . but it's you're putting much greater emphasis. On. T aking care of yourself , we'll do that and we'll do it with like mighty countries. And move forward . T he survey? As Everett said that two thirds of Americans still think of Canada as an ally , we sort of I, you know, T rump , let boys will be boys ,. We still love C anadi ans , but two thirds , plus of Canadians no longer see the US as an ally . I mean , quite frankly, ,. It feels like Canadians are just pissed off that they feel the term used was betrayed. And that even if we ' re , even if we're able to establish , go back to normal , hasn't the knife , You know? , isn't it? The knife gets pulled halfway out of the back , But. This injury takes years or decades to fail . I mean, , what is the vibe , if you will , around . H ow Canadians feel about Americans. And how long do you think it gets ,? It takes us to repair this relationship , I certainly recognize those figures . There is a feeling here that . T hatt, he , it's the actions of the US . T. Here ' s ,. There's several things . One is the trade action. S econ dly , was this long period . And I ' m , I'm not going to repeat the phrases that were used ,. But these threats to our sovereignty are very sovereignty , which , you know, , kind of unique . There's us in D enma rk , who've suffered . Y eah . A ct ual threats to sovereignty . I guess P anam a , we roll ourselves in with that . And. That ' s , you know, , on your hierarchy of betrayals , threatening somebody else's sovereignty pretty much to the top . I. Guess the top is acting on that threat . So So that's all mixed in . I think. Secondly, , what has been striking has been . T. He relatively muted response in the broader US to these steps. , right ? Y ouk now , the CEO class , if I can put it that way. , the other major influencers , stakeholders. And the . T hat ' s changing a bit . But. It was pretty quiet for a long period of time . So , you know, ,. And when you look at that from this side of the board, , you think , oh , okay, , well ,. This is more deeply held, or the friendship is less firmly rooted . It's like any relationship , I think if it's when you have a loss of trust . Y ou ,. It can be repaired to a degree . It takes a period of time , and it takes action to repair , right? , B ut , you know ,. It's more than more than five words . I , I think that, that action can start with . InM ay , the Prime minister of Canada at that point will meet with President T rump . I want to be the prime minister of Canada at that point , I'm working hard to get there , and they'll sit down and start a process of redefining that relationship and building trust out from that . We ' ll be right back. So more for prop. G comes from H ubs pot . Hbsspot is taking on the fundamental myth and business software that you need dozens of different tools to succeed . You don ' t. You only need one that actually works . with hubbsspot's powerful AI solution , B eze , build right into their customer platform . You have everything you need all in one place . Breeze copilot acts like a digital wingman that keeps you two steps ahead. While Bze agents take entire work streams off your plate . That's not AI vaporware . That's leverage . We're talking about real Ri cutting sales cycles in half for solving service tickets faster and working less hours every week to make it all happen . Go to hubbsspot do com slash AI to get started today . We ' re back with more from Prime Minister C arear ney . So. Just as a means of not or taking advantage of the fact that we have you on this podcast ,. We have . R eal problems in the US around income inequality for the first time in our nation's history. , a 30 year old isn't doing as well as says or parents was at 30 . tremendousous polarization. Politically . People don't like each other . I And I would argue that comparatively , the nations actually done quite well ,. But . W hat ails us , the cause coming from inside of the house ,. We don't like each other within A merica. . Y ou ' re asked to be a journeyman and come be Treasury secretary head of the F ed . What policy plans. Do you think the US should adopt , and then I want to use that as a jumping off point to what are the biggest economic challenges . T. He Canada faces and how you plan to address them. W ell , I think the okay , you go to the heart of I. Mean, that's a big , big question , I, guess the way I look at as follows I I'm going to come at this from an odd angle , maybe, but when I look at what's going to drive economic prosperity, , productivity growth for the next 25 years? , what are the big drivers of that? I put down three big drivers AI , no insight. I put at the top of the list , probably the life sciences revolution, where I'm less less expert, and and I would put carbon ,. I would put drive towards lower carbon ,. The US has taken a step back from that for the moment, but it's going to come back because the underlying issues around are there. And so okay, if those are some of the big things that are going to drive economies going forward and the US can to have mastery in all of those. But the question is, how broadly that's going to be shared within the US across various social strata? And how ready people , A re going to be to take advantage of it, right? So you know, , is AI going to be, you know, , purely an elite or largely an elite operation? Or is AI going to be used to train a lot of people to do a number of things? I mean , I know that sounds very . P anglos si and their you know, techno optimistic ,. But it is the question is whether it's a deliberate policy that's steered by by the federal and local governments in a way that are going to ensure that you know . InA ppa lach ia ,. You're learning skills that are consistent with that. And or you know, the energy transition over time , but it's not a term that's used anymore in the US, as far as I can tell , but it will come back if I can flip it backcot to us. We have the same set of issues or set of drivers. Those are global drivers on top of that ,. We have a series of things, such as I mentioned critical minerals ,. We have large conventional energy. So how are we balancing all that . In a way that builds the jobs as we move out ,. One of the things , I'll say, two other things , which are related but distinct . We got to sort out our housing issues in this country . We have a massive economic . We have an absolute social need , but we have a massive economic opportunity to create a new industry , new way of building houses and at scale and driving that . And. We're gonna ,. We're going shoot on that . And I. Guess the last thing I'd say , which . Y eah . C andi dly worries me a bit about the United States and gives me greater comfort or strength in Canada is a word I'm not sure you like to use A more , which is around diversity . We have a huge huge opportunity here because we're one of the most diverse countries in the world . Y ou value diversity , again, give a very strong sense of equal rights in a broad sense ,. We can be a magnet for talent. And as the US is pushing out . B rains , if you will . and , you know, ,. It's quite a hostile environment in the academic world in the United States. Now , we can take advantage of that . And then that cascades down through , you know, , the AI revolution , life sciences , other other elements . Y eah . P od casters , creative class , S cott , come up here. Whether it's now ,. It's now above 0. Creative has done a lot of work in that Su and prime minister . So that look ,. You have a housing crisis . We have a housing crisis . and it seems like leaders have agreed that it's a crisis for the last 10 years . N ow , I read that housing of Vancouver as a percentage of the average salary is the third most expensive city in the world ,. And that so much of it is in zoning and nimi ais. M. A nd your the previous prime minister , you know, , they wanted to address the housing crisis. What's the friction point is a capital as a labor? Is it zoning ,? What is different about what you're proposing . T hat is going to register any more progress than previous administrations . So. Its it's all of the above. And so you attack it in in a comprehensive way . I'm going to simplify in terms of restrict zoning development charges. And we work at multiple levels of government is part of the reason why those costs are there. They come from the municipal side. And so in effect, we put up a bunch of money, just put up a bunch of money to commit to cut the development charges in half. Okay. So and that's subject to a series of other restrictions being removed ,. But we will we at the federal level will'll pay for that to be cut in half . The. Second thing I mean, we believe very strongly that productivity in the Canadian housing sector, , construction sector basically is flatline for the last 20 years. We're still building houses like we did before . And, given the scale of what we need to do, we got to move much more rapidly , particularly in urban density and other things . So modular prefab, housing, , mass timber , other innovations that . T here they exist. And so one of the things we're going to do to kickstart that industry, and this is Canada's not the United States. We have a different attitude toward these things. We have a problem with deeply affordable housing, right? Social certain countries, you might call social housing. We just have not built that for decades, basically in effect. And so we need to we need to catch up. And so what we're doing part of what we're doing is we're going to build huge amount at that level and set the the specs, if you will. For that . Y eah . We ' re gonna build and we're gonna build by ,. You know, on our balance sheet as a developer, and we'll set the specs for that , which drive the industry upstream in prefab, mass, timber, , et cetera, , which gets the economies to scale there . But. By and large , we will rely on private sector build will make a bunch of land available of make cheap capital , 25 billion for developers in this case, , which is bigger money up here, , cut those development charges in half drive that . And. Then we will give tax breaks to people buying their first time home. So basically , they're getting 5 % off their first first time home , which , , from a down payment perspective. , starts starts to add up. So attacking it both on the supply demand side . The way. We look at it. I s. T. His is generational ,. Like the scale of the problem is generational , such that we are building out a huge pipeline of apprentices in the skilled trades, and one of the core messages I give up virtually every time I speak , So I'm going to do it now is this is going to be a great time for a career in the skilled trades in Canada because we're going to build for the next 25 , 30 years like we are going to add . If. We get this right, and we intend to three to four points of GDP of investment . T hat ' s a huge number right? It's possible . we used to invest at that scale relative to GDP. In the early 70. S. We can do it again. , know we can finance it. We got all the pension funds ,. We've got lots of money to finance it , but we need to we need to kickstarted. And of course, it's not it's housing. We start with housing , It's, not just housing , It's energy , It's other other elements , but that's what we're gonna to do. So we want to get young people into the skilled trades at scale ,. We're going to pay for all their apprenticeships. We're going to work with the unions to pull them through . we're adding a bunch of capacity at post-secondary education. So they can get these trades at a scale. So we're getting to hundreds of thousands , which again, in the US doesn't seem like a lot. And in C an ada ,. These are big numbers . L et ' s talk a little bit about climate and energy ,. You've evolved from being a climate finance advocate to scrapping the consumer carbon tax and calling for Canada to be at energy superpower ,. How have your views changed on those ? Y eah . I wouldn ' t , I wouldn't say my views have changed to be honest . So , I mean ,. It ' s ,. It's very results oriented . So. The consumer carbon tax in Canada was responsible for about 6 % of our emissions reduction . So 94 % of the work was being done elsewhere . Now. It sent a signal to households . But it it , it just wasn ' t. Y eah . T hatim portant ,. But it was quite divisive, because people, you know, , viewed it as a tax, and they they saw the tax with the tax . they didn't all give credit to the rebates that they were getting . so it politically was unhelpful, was undercutting the overall message So. We got rid of that a few months ago. , was first thing. I did actually, when I got into office , But, what we what we are doing is making sure that the carbon market for large emitters works well . Y eah . So. And and we large emitters work well ,. And as a consequence of that , we're getting them in effect to pay people for this is what will happen if we're elected , to pay people for ,. You know, , driving EVs , retrofitting their homes , the other ,. You know, , climate smart choices . . A nd? Then on top of that, , there is a big element , big IRA type element to our climate strategy, , investment tax and creditits and others . So. We're looking basically and having reasonable success with this, where we're putting out , you know, , a dollar federally, and we're getting 4 to $ 5 of private investment on top of that. And . Y ouk now , what's really relevant to us? Aside from caring about the climate and people up here, do care about the climate as a whole . Is that we think that this is going to be a fundamental driver of competitiveness. And if you look at who we're going to be trading with more over time , E uro peans , the B rits , others guess what they care about this In fact , as you know, carbon border adjustment mechanism is coming into in Europe. And so we take a view that, okay, we've got to do this medium long term for competitiveness because that's where the world's going S econ dly , the Europeans and others are going to want us to do this . . T hird ly , actually ,. We've got a lot of the technology . So. Part of being an energy superpower is around small modular reactors. , I mean ,. We're big hydropower . we're decent on hydrogen ,. We could get better carbon capture and storage ,. All these things we can do And I guess the last point, which goes back to the US is you know, right now and I'm going to grossly generalize the US doesn't care about climate. Six months ago, ,. We cared about climate , guess what you're going to care about climate again down the road And. When you care about climate down the road again, ,. We want to be in a position where we're much more competitive and maybe have leapfgged a number of US companies So I just want to do a quick lightning around . A dvi ce to your 25 year old self , you 10 , 15 seconds with your 25 year old self ,. What would you say to yourself? ?? Y ouk now , relax its and stay focused on what you like , I mean , I probably spent more time doing things. I didn't really love than I should have . you got a chance to go back and meet with someone who you've lost or who's no longer around who would that person pe? And what would you say to them? Well I think with I, you know, , be I be my father. , I'd say love them. Y ou at the end of your life, , not going to walk on the beach. Again, , not going to get to hang out with your wife, , your kids . What does success look like for you when you , when you look back , what is the box you want to have checked . I think strongly , the answer to that is . T haty ou ' re , you're proud of the values of your children and people who worked with you . I mean, I think that is the only real legacy ,. The extent to which you have influenced how others . T reat others in the world . and how they , how they react in the world . T hat ' s , I wrote a book ,. And that was the that was the conclusion of that . M ark Carney is Canada's 2 4t h prime minister. And leader of the Liberal Party sworn in this march as an economist , Prime Minister Carearney steered the Bank of Canada through the financial crisis, and later became the first nonbtt to run the Bank of E ngl and . between those roles . he served as Un special envoy to climate Action and finance, and as vice chair of Brookfield Asset management . I trust. A lot of Canadians are listening. A nd I feel comfortable speaking for a lot of people ,. And that is . A mericans understand the largest undefended border in the world is the US Canadian border . That's for a reason . I love. That question that a Warren Buffett's friend was a Holocaust survivor, , said ,. The way I judge my friends is I asked one question who would hide me , A lot of Americans. Remember that Canadians hit Americans in the Iran Iran hostage crisis . A nd I hope that your listeners and your voters recognize there is a huge swath of Americans that think of you not not of even as a friend, but as siblings. And that we hope . A nd are committed to maintaining what is arguably one of the strongest alliances in history that I don't want to say, don't take what's going on seriously. , you have to , but there are a lot of Americans down here who are brothers and sisters in arms in C. An ada . We really do think of you as a sibling . T hanky ou , S cott .