After the university application results are released this year
There are vacancies in many liberal arts departments
This triggered another wave of debates about the "uselessness of literary composition"
Every once in a while, Taiwan will have war writing groups
Liberal arts students are often asked: What are you going to do after graduation?
Coupled with the AI ​​boom in recent years, the management team has even more advantages
It further strengthens the argument that the composition is useless
The book I am facing today is "The Impact of Abolition of the Department of Liberal Arts"
Let’s explore this topic in depth
The author of this book, Toshiya Yoshimi, is a Japanese sociologist
In today's episode we'll talk about
How did the theory that literary groups are useless come about?
Is the writing group useful?
How to deal with the current problem of university literature groups not being able to recruit students?
June 2015
A report appeared in Japanese media
Said Japan’s Ministry of Education should strengthen science
Abolition of the Ministry of Liberal Arts and Sciences
Because they cannot cultivate the talents that society needs
The news soon spread throughout the world
Featured in the Wall Street Journal
Some scholars came out to criticize
Loss of diversity at universities is a loss for the country
Abolition of liberal arts
Let Japan become a totalitarian country
But the author points out
This news is actually taken out of context and over-interpreted by the media.
The original text from the Japanese Ministry of Education says
It is recommended that the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences should respond to the problem of declining birthrate
Actively attempt to dismantle the organization
and adjust to areas with higher social needs.
There is no suggestion that the Japanese government plans to abolish liberal arts
Similarly, this year Taiwan’s high schools Jianzhong and Peking University stopped recruiting girls’ humanities and social sciences classes.
The principal said:
Just integrate humanistic qualities into the general class curriculum
However, it was interpreted by the media as being forced to stop recruiting due to the AI ​​wave.
Sweeping by the wave of AI
Jianzhong and Beiyi successively announced the suspension of recruitment for human resources and social security classes.
we will find
The argument that “liberal arts will become useless because of the AI ​​wave”
In fact, it was over-exaggerated by the media.
The responsibility of the media should be to convey information accurately
So these erroneous reports of the group crisis
In fact, it does not reflect that the writing group is useless
Rather, society needs to strengthen liberal arts education
Don't let this kind of false news spread
But even without the media adding fuel to the fire
The general public also thinks that liberal arts are useless
So what we should ask is
How did the concept of "emphasis on science and literature" emerge?
In fact, Japan was a country that paid more attention to liberal arts in its early days.
Japanese historian Zhongshan Shigeru pointed out
Imperial University was established in Japan after the Meiji Restoration in the 19th century
The government’s focus on higher education policy is actually the Faculty of Law
Because at that time Japan was trying to build an empire like the Western powers.
Launched the Sino-Japanese War and the Russo-Japanese War
All these require legal elites to assist in governing the legal order.
It can be said that Japan can build a great empire
The behind-the-scenes work was done by the writing team.
At this time, Taiwan was also part of the Japanese Empire.
But as the Japanese empire continued to expand
Requires various military technologies
So starting in the 1910s
Japan vigorously builds science and engineering research institutes
The right to speak originally held by the Faculty of Law
It was gradually transferred to the science and engineering departments.
until World War II
In order to create a Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, Japan
In 1940, the "Scientific Mobilization Implementation Plan" was promulgated.
Said that to be able to defeat the United States, the government must heavily fund scientific research
starting from this period
Seventy percent of the government's subsidy funds are taken away by science and engineering departments.
This structural proportion continues to this day in Japan.
And after the war
The goals of countries around the world have shifted from militarization to economic development
Because it was during the Cold War
Both the U.S. and Soviet camps are dominated by science and engineering.
University science and engineering enrollment quotas continue to grow
It is precisely because a large number of science and engineering graduates are sent into society every year
Only then did the post-war West still have Japan
Can achieve rapid economic growth
Moving to an information society
In the 21st century
Education policies around the world shift toward neoliberalism
Legalize the national university
Introducing the principle of competition
This makes it difficult for literary groups to apply for research funds.
will be eliminated in the competition
Why is it difficult for literary groups to apply for funding?
Because first
Science research results can bring more economic benefits to universities
Such as robotics laboratory and AI laboratory
These laboratories can bring huge funds behind them
Second, research in the sciences is easier to achieve the expected results than in the liberal arts.
It also takes less time
The study of liberal arts
It is difficult to come up with clear results that can be quantified
Many liberal arts knowledge requires more than 10 years to accumulate any results.
This makes the school feel
The management team’s research has a relatively high return on investment
Finally, there is another reason
Science research requires teamwork
But research in the liberal arts is often done alone.
So in competing for funding and publishing in journals
It is easier for science and engineering subjects to give full play to their advantages
The funding applied for for liberal arts is not enough
This makes upper-level decision-makers think that
The writing team is not competitive
Need to straighten things up
So from 1998 to 2007
Japan’s national university liberal arts staff decreased by 11%
Universities regard "getting funding" as a researcher's ability assessment
Only when you apply for funds can you be promoted or re-employed.
Otherwise you will lose your job
This makes academics become more and more like entrepreneurs
Liberal arts scholars seek funding
Try your best to write the plan
Increased ability to apply for funding
But the time for research has decreased.
Science and engineering are about teamwork
Can divide labor
Someone is responsible for applying for funds
Others can concentrate on research
This caused another gap between the research results of the literature group and the science group.
Schools have become more focused on science and less on literature
It deepens the impression that liberal arts are really useless.
When arguing about the uselessness of liberal arts
There is often a defense that says: "Although liberal arts are useless, they still have some value."
The author believes that this statement ignores a key point
Whether it is useful or not requires considering the time scale.
Science and engineering can be useful in a short time
Find a job and make money immediately
Because the social definition of useful
Always measured by salary
So everyone thinks that science and engineering are the most useful.
The average salary for Physics, Chemistry and Earth Sciences is 56,374 yuan
Number one
Engineering-related projects ranked second with 51,927 yuan.
Medicine ranked third
The Law and Education Department of the Literature Group
Ranked fourth and fifth respectively
But the utility of liberal arts
Usually takes longer to see
Like studying law
You can become a lawyer after graduation
Just like science and engineering, it will be useful in the short term.
But sociology and anthropology are mid- to long-term perspectives.
Requires sufficient field experience to be effective
It may take 5-10 years
Next, philosophy and history are long-term perspectives.
If philosophy is to be used to transform social values ​​and culture
It may take a generation to take effect
Because no results can be seen in a short period of time
It is considered useless by ordinary people
But if you look at it from a longer perspective
Liberal arts are actually very useful
Because the writing team is responsible for creating value
Make the entire society doubt the original value scale
Criticize what was previously taken for granted
Instead of blindly following the trend
For example, in the mid-to-late 20th century
The whole world is fighting for the economy and accelerating development
What is needed at this time are talents in science and engineering
But today in the 21st century
Countries wake up to climate crisis
No longer blindly engage in economic growth and mass production
Instead, we began to pursue net-zero carbon emissions and ESG
Oppose excessive consumption and promote recycling and reuse
This shift in value
This is the work done by people in the humanities.
What scientists can tell us about the problems caused by global warming
But it takes changing people’s values ​​and moving towards a Green New Deal
Talents in social sciences and liberal arts are also needed
We can further question
This kind of debate between "literary group and theoretical group" is actually a very recent phenomenon.
People in the past would never think like this
First in medieval universities
There is no difference between "literary group" and "library group"
Only the distinction between "useful learning" and "free learning"
Useful science refers to theology, law, and medicine
The study of freedom includes liberal arts and science
Because for people at that time
to be a free person
You must study liberal arts and science at the same time
That is what we often hear about liberal arts education (Liberal arts)
Like the philosophers before the 17th century
Descartes, Leibniz, Newton
They all study philosophy and science at the same time
If you tell them: the writing group is useless, the management group is useful
They don't understand what you're saying at all
Because science and philosophy are unified knowledge
It was not until the 19th century that the literature group and the theory group were divided into two disciplines.
The situation at that time was the beginning of the 19th century
German Prussia was defeated by Napoleon's French army
The Germans felt an urgent sense of national subjugation.
Humboldt, the Prussian Minister of Education at that time, advocated
Revitalize German culture by founding the University of Berlin
Make the University of Berlin the mother of modern universities
But in the 19th century Europe was at the peak of the Industrial Revolution
Talents and technologies in science and engineering lead social change
So there was a debate in Germany at that time:
When natural sciences are so strong, what is the significance of the existence of liberal arts?
At that time, a school of thought emerged to defend the literary group
Called "neo-Kantianism"
One of the philosophers, Rickert, said
The rational group pursues the unchanging laws of nature
So it is a science
But the writing team is not unscientific
Literary group is actually a kind of cultural science
What is discussed is the value of culture
Because in the past feudal period
The source of value in Western society is God and the King
Until after the French Revolution and the Industrial Revolution
Europeans no longer regard God as the absolute source of value
But after the collapse of faith
What new values ​​should be used to fill the vacancy after God disappears?
has become an important issue in Western society
Liberal arts are responsible for creating value
Guide the direction of cultural development
Only in this way can people know what they are pursuing in life.
This is the meaning of the existence of liberal arts
The emergence of humanities and social sciences in Europe and America in the 20th century
In fact, it is based on the ideas of the Neo-Kantian school
So we think that liberal arts came first, and then came the theory that liberal arts are useless.
In fact, just the opposite
It was in the 19th century that the debate about the futility of liberal arts first arose.
Later, a group of philosophers appeared and proved that liberal arts must be included in universities
If a society does not take the initiative to ask itself what values ​​it is pursuing,
It means that this society may have been kidnapped by some existing values ​​without knowing it.
People take it all for granted
The contribution of the writing group is to challenge these taken-for-granted assumptions.
So in college
Very useful regardless of literary or organizational structure
The management team leads technological progress and makes life more convenient
But you use technology products
Isn’t it also used for listening to music and watching dramas?
People in the entertainment industry, film and television industry are also from the literary group
For example, Lin Huaimin studied art and creative arts.
Nolan studied English literature
If there is no writing group
You don't have "Oppenheimer" or "Full Start" to watch now.
???
Or people who graduate from science and engineering majors earn a lot of money
You can travel and enjoy everywhere
But tourism, history, culture, and museums are also the work of the literary group
TSMC CoWoS advanced packaging factory opens in Chiayi
It is expected to build two
The result was during geological drilling operations
It is suspected that Jomon pottery sherds and pottery rings were excavated.
It also made netizens angry
The direct call was a counterattack from the writing group.
Next, the author will diagnose
The current crisis of universities not being able to recruit liberal arts students
first
In fact, the shortage of university admissions cannot be said to be a crisis for literary groups.
It’s a matter of supply and demand structure
Japan and Taiwan are in very similar situations
They all experienced the Kwangju University and the declining birth rate at the same time.
Taiwan experienced a series of educational reforms in the 1990s
One of the demands is that Guangzhou University
Hope to increase university admission rate and reduce student pressure
Since 1996
More and more colleges and universities
The trend of “school-based” private schools has begun to emerge
Coupled with the impact of declining birthrate
Taiwan since 2011
The number of college freshmen continues to decline
The demographic structure can no longer support the continued survival of so many universities.
The market is already saturated
This leads to a result
Many tertiary institutions are no longer dedicated solely to research
Instead, focus on self-marketing
Do public relations to attract more people to study
Start designing various departments that sound gimmicky
Sell ​​yourself as a good job after graduation to attract students
There are even schools that require professors to recruit people to study.
In order to survive, the school
Now we require professors to actively recruit students
Each professor has to recruit 5 students into the school
Otherwise
You may face deductions from your performance appraisal.
There is even no year-end bonus
The logic of universities from education and research
Transformed into the logic of marketing and business operations
In order to fill the enrollment gap, schools
Use various tricks
For example, setting up on-the-job special classes for adults to learn
Or engage in international cooperation to attract international students to study
These are all aimed at grabbing student resources to maintain the number of students.
to attract students
Universities are increasingly willing to sell themselves as vocational training centers
This allows companies to outsource the responsibility of talent cultivation to universities
Society has gradually equated universities with vocational training institutes
It is under this trend
The literature group may not be favored because of the low starting salary upon graduation.
Leading to a more serious enrollment crisis
So how to solve this problem?
The author puts forward several ideas
First, universities can cooperate with high schools
Let high school students know early what the university literary group is doing
Because our culture does not encourage students to independently explore different subjects
Instead, students are encouraged to spend time studying and preparing for exams
Many high school students clearly don’t know what they are studying in this department.
But I was asked to say that I should first get admitted to a good university.
This causes many people to
Didn’t match the major that I really wanted to study
So universities can cooperate with high schools
Let high school students know earlier
What are the literature groups at the university studying?
The second way to deal with the enrollment gap in the literary group is to
Miyamoto Musashi's Nito-ryu doctrine
Miyamoto Musashi was a Japanese swordsman from the Edo period
His most famous swordsmanship is the two-sword style
That is, holding both long and short knives at the same time allows you to be more flexible in combat situations.
Because you don’t know the enemy you’re facing
Will it be close or far?
Therefore, Miyamoto Musashi said: "It is a fallacy to rely on long swords in close combat."
Likewise, today’s world is changing so fast
Cross-field talents who have two knives at the same time are needed
That is to say, the knowledge of liberal arts and science can be combined
to create higher value
For example, many software companies will encounter issues with intellectual property rights.
So students majoring in information science
If you go to minor in law courses again
can highlight its unique value
Also like the philosophy department
If you only major
It may be difficult to find a job after graduation
But if you take philosophy as a minor
Learn to think critically
Combined with a major in science, engineering, medicine, law, and business
It will be a very beneficial "two-sword style"
For example, TSMC has also been looking for political science talents in recent years.
To be able to deal with the chip war between the United States and China
Job hunting social network recently released
TSMC Business Intelligence Analyst Job Vacancies
Requesting political and economic background on U.S.-China-Taiwan relations
4 years of experience in data analysis and market research
And a doctor in political and international relations who can keep up with the political and economic dynamics of the United States and China should offer an olive branch.
One week after the vacancies were opened, 146 people applied
So the problem is not that the writing group is useless
It depends on whether you can use it
Do you know how to maximize the effectiveness of the knowledge of the writing group?
And whether universities can connect literature courses with contemporary issues
Like Brown University, an Ivy League school in the United States
There is a special tradition
It's called "open curriculum system"
There will be no mandatory compulsory courses
Instead, students design their own class schedules
As long as students complete at least one concentration program before graduation
So students have a high degree of freedom
To comprehensively study the knowledge of literary group and management group
There are also international Christian universities in Japan
Pursuing the philosophy of liberal arts education
The vertical division of academic departments and disciplines has been abolished
Students are free to combine their major courses
Will not be restricted by the literary organization group
If universities in Taiwan can introduce this kind of "two-edged swordsmanship"
It is necessary to significantly reduce the required credits for majors
Give students more freedom to choose their own courses
But even though many students in the university are free to choose courses
We still have to face today’s declining birth rate
The problem of fewer students
The author's suggestion is
Society should change its concept of who should go to college
most of us think
College is the buffer period between graduating from high school and going out into society.
Many people go to college
Or treat the university as a vocational training center
Otherwise, you are escaping from reality
Delay time to enter society
Not because they really want to go to university to learn more
I went to college hoping to have more time to explore myself.
Or hope to find a good job after graduation
Thus
College has become like a shelter for lost sheep who graduated from high school.
the author thinks
we should change our minds
Don’t think of college as a buffer period between “high school” and “going out into society”
Instead, use the university as a place of learning that all ages can return to.
For example, after working in the workplace for many years
Many people will find that they have shortcomings
At this time, returning to school to study liberal arts is not just to find a job.
But I hope to enrich myself
Like many public figures, after working for many years
Will go back to school to study liberal arts
Or middle-aged and elderly people who no longer have to worry about money
You can also go back to university
Learn what you really love
If it is possible to diversify the age of admission
It can solve the enrollment problem of low birthrate
Because even though there are fewer 18-year-old fresh graduates every year
However, the number of new students aged 30 to 60 can increase significantly.
Thus
The university becomes a meeting point
Recruiting high school graduates
Adults with rich career experience
There are also experienced old people
These three groups of people interact and learn together
Can provide universities with new creativity
The author even thinks
If this concept is popularized
In the new era, everyone can go to college more than once in their life
When I first went to college
When you get a major, your first knife
After many years of social work experience,
Go back and learn the second knife
Better able to cope with today’s rapidly changing society
Today's video
We introduced the historical origins of the theory of the futility of liberal arts
In fact, the literary group once had more say in history
In the Middle Ages, Literary Group and Literary Group were even the same category
These are all things that free people need to learn.
The liberal arts differentiated themselves in the 19th century
In fact, it is in response to the challenge of the group’s futility theory.
Recognize that the work of the writing team is to create value
guide cultural development
In today's world of declining birthrates and crisis in literary groups,
We can use dualism to create cross-field talents
Diversify the age of admission
Universities are no longer just vocational training centers for high school graduates
Today’s era of information explosion in the 21st century
A bit like when printing first appeared in Europe in the 16th century
A large amount of new knowledge is published through printing
At that time, intellectuals did not distinguish between liberal arts and science.
For example, Copernicus originally studied theology
Also served as a priest
Later, he went on a study tour to study medicine.
Finally, learn astronomy by yourself
Or Erasmus and Galileo were both majoring in arts and sciences
It is this kind of eclecticism
Allowed European intellectuals at that time to reach the peak of creativity
Renaissance
Today's 21st century society
In fact, it is similar to the information explosion in the 16th century.
No matter how prevalent the theory of useless writing is,
Everyone can study liberal arts and science at the same time
to enhance one's own value
Grasp the dividends of this era
One day
May bring a second Renaissance to human civilization