Hello everyone
I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today's video
Let's talk about a relatively light topic.
Why is the TV series "New Three Kingdoms" so abstract?
If you see in the comments section
"Deafening oneself"
Nonsensical phrases like "Keep playing the music and keep dancing"
So this is a meme that netizens are using to refer to the game "New Three Kingdoms".
This TV series was filmed in 2010.
More than a decade later, it actually erupted
Enduring vitality
It is indeed a very interesting phenomenon.
More than ten years ago
The Chinese film and television industry has seen a surge
翻拍四大名著的浪潮
As a result, none of these remakes succeeded.
Achieve the goal of surpassing the CCTV version
The new versions of "Dream of the Red Chamber" and "Journey to the West"
The novel *Water Margin* has almost completely disappeared.
However, "New Three Kingdoms" has maintained its popularity.
And continuously providing netizens
Provides a variety of abstract language and fun
This is of course inseparable from the two people on Bilibili.
A talented blogger's re-creation
They discovered from this drama
Entertainment and comedic effect
Created a new Three Kingdoms universe
And it sparked a wave of ridicule
A carnival themed around rants and complaints
It can be said
The new Three Kingdoms survived on its own.
Many bloggers in the film and television commentary section
And what's amazing is...
Even though this drama has already been
So many bloggers are criticizing it frame by frame.
People can still get from it
Constantly uncovering new fun
The abstraction of "New Three Kingdoms"
Firstly, it comes from its kind
The shoddy workmanship and absurdity are justified
The show contains numerous logically broken chains.
For example, Zhuge Liang's troop deployments often contradicted himself.
Incoherent
For example, Cao Cao's "defeated troops will surely win"
The military strategy seems very illogical.
at the same time
The show is filled with a lot of nonsensical lines.
For example, "Say my name"
"You'll be startled"
"Fork it out"
There was also "a pair of smiling tigers"
The inexplicable idiom "two-headed black shark"
The screenwriter also seamlessly inserted...
Numerous time-travel elements and illogical plot points
For example, Cao Cao at the end of the Eastern Han Dynasty would recite...
A famous quote from the 19th-century German poet Heinrich Heine
During Zhang Fei's three visits to Zhuge Liang's thatched cottage,
Zhuge Liang's thatched cottage was burned down.
Liu Bei, however, refused to allow anyone to put out the fire, etc.
Faced with such
A poorly made TV series riddled with flaws
The general consensus is
It uses cheap Machiavellianism and office politics
It undermines the faith and sublimity in the original novel "Romance of the Three Kingdoms".
In today's video
We won't just play with memes.
Instead, I want to talk to you about my thoughts on this.
Deconstruction and perspectives on that period of history
That
It's been a long time since I've worked on "History and Society".
This is the video series.
I will put today's video in this list.
If you have any requests to contact me
Topics for discussion and consultation
You can contact me via email to make an appointment.
first
We say that the reason why "New Three Kingdoms" is so popular today is...
The internet provides a constant stream of entertainment.
Becoming a treasure trove of abstract memes
The most fundamental reason is
It brutally and thoroughly deconstructed
The original Romance of the Three Kingdoms and the subconscious of the masses
The lofty classical Chinese values ​​in
In the narrative logic of "New Three Kingdoms"
Almost all factions were shrouded in [something].
Under the shadow of Machiavellianism and power struggles
first
We need to understand a problem
What are the differences between the original novel and the CCTV version of "Romance of the Three Kingdoms"?
What kind of moral universe has been constructed?
The Romance of the Three Kingdoms undoubtedly focuses on Liu Bei's camp as the main storyline.
However, the author's method of elevating Liu Bei's group
It's not simply about giving them protagonist halo.
Or let them win every battle.
Instead, it endowed them with a kind of
Absolute moral universality
It has a moral appeal to all people.
If we force an analogy with Kant's moral philosophy
That is a real
Why is the moral law worthy of people's respect?
Because it has everything
The universality and necessity of rational beings
In other words
This principle applies not only to you
It must also apply to everyone.
In the universe of Romance of the Three Kingdoms
Liu Bei's benevolence, Guan Yu's righteousness, and Zhuge Liang's loyalty
This is the kind of categorical imperative.
This core spirit is not only
The cohesion within the Shu Han Group
It is the highest law of the entire Three Kingdoms universe.
To demonstrate the universality of this moral law, the author...
A classic scene with rich metaphorical meaning was arranged.
Zhuge Liang only said
A few profound principles of loyalty and righteousness
Let Wang Lang die of shame.
This is not history.
And it doesn't make sense either.
The reason the author included this plot point
It is to highlight
Even villains like Wang Lang
Subconsciously also subject to
The set of moral truths represented by Liu Bei's group
Zhuge Liang's words are like
A giant moral mirror
This directly triggered Wang Lang's inner thoughts
Irreconcilable moral collapse
If Wang Lang is a pure
Machiavellians
I completely disagree with this truth
He could simply laugh it off.
He died of shame and indignation.
This precisely proves the Shu Han regime's...
Values ​​are something even enemies cannot deny.
And the truth that inspires awe in the depths of one's soul
This is also a common writing technique.
In a story
Who does the author admire most?
This will elevate whose values.
For the natural laws of this universe
You disobey him
Even if you are the winner on the physical level
But you will be utterly destroyed mentally.
However, in "New Three Kingdoms"
All of this has been completely deconstructed.
Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei appear to be brothers.
In reality, I'm not familiar with it.
Liu Bei's hypocrisy and feigned benevolence were laid bare.
His tears and expression were more like
It is a form of workplace PUA (Pick-Up Artist) tactics.
Although Guan Yu in the original work was also arrogant
But it can make people feel
A distinctive personal charm
But in the new Three Kingdoms
Guan Yu's arrogance was magnified into
A morbid narcissism and arrogance
He almost never looks people in the eye.
He despises others all the time.
You can't see his feelings for himself.
Show basic respect to those around you.
It gives people a feeling of being unable to communicate.
Zhang Fei was portrayed in "New Three Kingdoms" as...
One who only knows how to yell
A mindless idiot who is obsessed with killing
As for Zhuge Liang in this team
He was like a punching bag.
The two were subjected to closure from beginning to end.
The exclusion and Liu Bei's secret vigilance
This led to an absurd experience.
That is in the CCTV version of "Romance of the Three Kingdoms"
The deaths of Guan Yu and Zhang Fei were a matter that made
Many viewers were saddened by the plot
However, "New Three Kingdoms" successfully healed the audience's sadness.
When everyone saw that these two people were dead
They applauded and cheered.
The new Three Kingdoms claims to restore historical truth.
However, when it includes all the characters
It was reduced to naked deceit and treachery.
It thus completely deconstructed the original work.
The sense of tragedy and aesthetic experience it contains
The reason why viewers are criticizing this show
To a large extent, it is also because of the subconscious
They still agree with the principles established by "Romance of the Three Kingdoms".
That set of value coordinates regarding loyalty and the people
In comparison
The actors in the CCTV version of Romance of the Three Kingdoms are indeed
He brought that spirit of loyalty and righteousness to life.
Their charismatic performances
To a large extent, it represents these historical figures
This also shielded the dark side of the novel.
They perfectly fit China
The human yearning for heroes
The audience is also based on the original work
This spirit and the critique of the new Three Kingdoms
However
If we really look back at the history of the Three Kingdoms
You might discover a very ironic truth.
That is the image of Liu Bei's group.
It was originally due to various political and
Reality needs to be forcibly painted out
Despite being poorly made
The illogical "New Three Kingdoms"
Using vulgar Machiavellian tactics to please the audience
But it exists in many places
By sheer accident, this layer of historical filter was torn away.
On the contrary, it is closer to history.
For example, in the CCTV version and the original novel "Romance of the Three Kingdoms"
Guan Yu was portrayed as gentle and refined.
Although carrying arrogance
But overall, he is a person with personal charisma.
A commander that inspires people to follow
In the new Three Kingdoms, Guan Yu is extremely arrogant.
Lacking communication and empathy skills
This is certainly not the real Guan Yu from history.
但可能比原著要更加接近
The Romance of the Three Kingdoms attributes Guan Yu's defeat to
For the surrender and betrayal of Mi Fang and others
But in fact
When Sun Quan arrived in Jiangling
Almost all the officials in Jingzhou
He immediately expressed his willingness to pledge allegiance to Sun Quan.
Surrendered without any psychological burden
The Records of the Three Kingdoms' evaluation of Guan Yu is:
"Treat soldiers well but be arrogant towards scholar-officials"
In other words, Guan Yu is more...
Treat soldiers at the grassroots level with kindness and compassion
But he was arrogant towards the gentry and officials.
However
We have reason to doubt
Even this evaluation is somewhat embellished.
Because when Guan Yu's army
Hearing that there was an attack behind
They scattered and fled without any fighting.
Completely lacking fighting spirit
In the end, Guan Yu only had about ten men left to follow him.
It's clear that this practice of treating soldiers well is also problematic.
A high-pressure arrogance
A leader who lacks basic respect
When facing a crisis
What will inevitably result is collective betrayal.
The new Three Kingdoms portrays Guan Yu as extremely arrogant.
Instead, it inadvertently revealed Guan Yu's fatal flaw.
For example, Zhang Fei
The original novel and the CCTV version can be said to have greatly embellished Zhang Fei's image.
He was portrayed as someone who was rough around the edges but meticulous at heart.
They hate evil and have compassion and goodwill towards ordinary people.
fierce general
His sadistic tendencies were greatly downplayed.
This led viewers to see Zhang Fei whipping his subordinates.
The scene where he is killed by his subordinates is sad.
I think this is because Zhang Fei missed Guan Yu too much.
Want to avenge Guan Yu
That led to the loss of emotional control
But in real history
Zhang Fei's character was extremely wicked.
The Records of the Three Kingdoms describes him as "tyrannical and ungrateful."
There is no evidence to suggest that he did so because of [the need to] [do something].
Guan Yu only put pressure on his subordinates to seek revenge.
In fact
He simply has sadistic tendencies.
He habitually beat his subordinates until their skin was torn and bleeding.
And after hitting someone
And also these resentful
The person who suffered greatly stayed by his side as his personal bodyguard
Even Liu Bei repeatedly warned him
But he continued to do things his own way.
In the Romance of the Three Kingdoms
Liu Bei's group was transformed into
A moral benchmark for a benevolent and righteous army
Its core members must not have
A fundamental moral stain
If the portrayal is accurate, then Zhang Fei viewed his soldiers as worthless.
Random abuse
Then the hypocrisy of Liu Bei's group will be completely exposed.
And on this point
The adaptation of "New Three Kingdoms" produced a peculiar effect.
The new Three Kingdoms completely removed
That filter of a cute, rough guy
Zhang Fei was portrayed as a violent, bloodthirsty idiot.
This is certainly a kind of deconstruction and dimensional reduction of the original characters.
Although Zhang Fei in real history was hot-tempered
But he's clearly not an idiot.
However
In the current internet context
This adaptation unexpectedly prompted us
Standing at a point closer to modern human rights
Examining this event from a conceptual perspective
When the audience saw Zhang Fei being attacked by Fan Jiang
When Zhang Da's two lieutenants assassinated
No one will feel regret that a villain betrayed a hero.
No one will empathize with Liu Bei and
Brotherhood between Zhang Fei
on the contrary
The audience instantly empathized with the two lieutenants.
And immediately I thought of those irritable people in real life.
An incompetent leader who enjoys workplace bullying
It made the audience realize
If someone really traveled back to the Three Kingdoms period
He is unlikely to become Liu Bei's sworn brother.
And more likely to become that
Subordinates who were mistreated by Zhang Fei for no reason
Under this modern perspective
The assassinations by the two lieutenants were no longer considered a despicable betrayal.
Rather, it is the vulnerable who are driven to the brink of despair.
Later, a just resistance against the rulers
As for Liu Bei
The new Three Kingdoms portrayed him as a hypocritical and ruthless character.
Full of benevolence and morality
In reality, it was all a scheme by the underworld boss.
And historically, Liu Bei was indeed
He was also a master of Machiavellian tactics.
Unlike the original work, it's not always
Possessing a moral advantage
The Book of Wu records Guan Yu and
Lu Su's negotiations on the Jingzhou issue
Lu Su sternly rebuked Liu Bei for his insatiable greed.
treachery
Guan Yu was rendered speechless.
Guan Yu's arrogance
They did not refute these accusations at all.
It's clear that even they themselves felt they were in the wrong.
After Liu Bei seized Yizhou through Machiavellian and deceptive means...
He also promised and allowed his soldiers to plunder extensively.
The portrayal of Liu Bei as hypocritical and deceitful in the new Three Kingdoms
Instead, it gets closer to that
The survival logic of warlords: the strong preying on the weak
In that era
What the feudal lords were really competing on was who had the most shamelessness.
Who can be more thorough and ruthless?
Extracting benefits from the people and exploiting wealth
So-called brilliant strategies and great talents
In the real game of power
It's often a competition of who can do it better.
Breach of contract without any moral bottom line
Who can be more ruthless towards the lower class?
The common people are treated as mere commodities.
The narrative system and moral concepts of "Romance of the Three Kingdoms"
Actually, it is based on some
On top of propositions that cannot withstand scrutiny
Why did Shu Han have the Mandate of Heaven?
It is undoubtedly correct.
Why insist on clinging to a corrupt Han Dynasty?
Are they inherently morally superior?
Because this set of "respect for Liu" values ​​and
It wasn't decided by people from the Three Kingdoms period themselves.
But in the later period of Chinese history
Especially after the rise of Neo-Confucianism in the Song and Ming dynasties
In order to consolidate their power
Demanding blind loyalty from subjects and forcing them to do so
The imprint of thought
It is a means of political propaganda.
They need the public to believe them.
Even if the emperor is incompetent
Dynasties decay
You must also do your utmost.
Die and then it's over
For example, we can see Guan Yu in
Gradually deified in Chinese history
It is inextricably linked to the promotion of imperial power.
For the first time, Guan Yu was given
He entered the temple as a guardian deity of the temple.
This refers to Emperor Yang Guang of the Sui Dynasty, who was known for his tyrannical rule, excessive taxes, and extravagant lifestyle.
Emperor Huizong of Song, Zhao Ji, was incompetent and foolish.
Guan Yu was given a title four times.
Emperor Shenzong of Ming, Zhu Yijun, indulged in sensual pleasures.
This led to widespread famine in the Ming Dynasty.
In order to quell the public's resentment
Guan Yu was posthumously honored as the Great Emperor of Heaven.
By the Qing Dynasty
Banning performances of Guan Yu plays to maintain Guan Yu's divine status
Emperor Yongzheng was known for his oppressive rule.
Ultimately, it was this title bestowed upon Guan Yu that reached its pinnacle.
Helpless amidst internal and external troubles
Emperor Guangxu of the Qing Dynasty, who was on the verge of collapse
These emperors who fanatically packaged Guan Yu
Either a tyrant
Either he was a tyrant
Either the last ruler of a country on the verge of collapse
When a ruler lacks political identity
When public discontent is boiling
What he fears most is public discontent.
Tyrants and incompetent rulers were extremely
A psychotropic drug is needed.
They singled out Guan Yu.
He was infinitely magnified in his loyalty and righteousness.
It made it a kind of mental shackle on its subjects.
And cleverly used his friendship
Loyalty is equivalent to loyalty to the Lord.
Speaking of which
We seem to have completely deciphered that period of history.
This constitutes a dark forest of despair.
So
In that dark era
Is there even a trace of belonging to
Where is the glimmer of humanitarianism?
I think so
But this faint light did not appear in those...
The heroes who are elevated to godhood in novels
On the contrary, this is often seen in clowns and villains.
In the next video, we'll continue exploring this topic.
That's all for today's video.
If you have any questions
You have questions and would like to discuss them with me.
Just contact me via email.
For example, you want to discuss a certain article with me.
A certain quote, a certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
Or you would like to discuss your...
Life experiences, confusion, and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions regarding payment and communication methods
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you are unable to pay or become a member
Please also contact me
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will put this video in
The list includes "History and Society"
I also recommend everyone to check out my videos.
Other videos in this list
Thank you for watching.
goodbye!