(Advertisement) If Inveda is AI's gold mining, then this industry is AI's gold mining furnace That's right, this is the main character we are going to introduce today, cloud computing In the past decade, cloud computing can be said to be one of the most successful industries in the field of global technology As a digital infrastructure for all companies in the Internet age The cloud computing industry not only requires huge, but also maintains a high growth rate for a long time This also created the most powerful technology giants in the current market AWS's Amazon, Azure's Microsoft and Google's Google This kind of three-party structure has lasted for nearly ten years However, as the AI era approaches All this may be going to change completely And this change has just been revealed recently And once it happens, it is likely to completely reset the structure of the entire technology industry 所以啊,美投军今天就琢磨着第一时间跟咱各位看官分享一些我的发现如果你也偏爱投资科技股或者持有这几家云巨头公司那么本期视频你一定得看到最后 What is cloud computing? Simply put, it is to store data and data resources on the Internet. Companies and individuals no longer use the local fund but use the Internet to get these resources. Compared to traditional local computing, cloud computing is like renting a supercomputer. You can use it as you like and save money. In the past ten years, the cloud business has been a major trend in the entire industry. According to statistics, the global cloud computing market in 2017 is only $50 billion. By 2024, it has reached $33 billion, and the annual growth is 31%. This also created a super-unique beast like Amazon, Microsoft and Google. This volume, this speed, says it is the most successful technology industry in the past ten years. I think it's not a big deal. But with the arrival of the AI era, the logic of the investment of the entire industry of cloud computing is likely to change. We all know that the development of AI model requires a lot of chip computing, which is what Inveda does. Who is going to integrate and hand over this computing? In fact, it's the cloud computing company. OpenAI will not go to Inveda to buy chips by itself, because the data center of Dazhen is a big factory that is hard to imagine. So they have to use cloud service providers to use the algorithm to train models, and then they can promote their models to the market and let others use them. In the foreseeable future, almost all AI business models will not be able to get away with the participation of cloud computing. But some of you may not necessarily understand this sentence. Let's take a few examples. For example, if OpenAI training large models continue to stack, then a large number of cloud computing services are needed. For example, if you use the problem of removing GPT, the process of its reasoning also needs to be achieved by cloud service providers. In the future, if AI applications are widely used, not only does each AI application need to use cloud computing, but also C-end users must use AI to use cloud computing. Even if AI's edge computing era comes, and the local computing volume increases, these increased local computing also requires more cloud computing to integrate. So if you believe that AI is destined to erupt, then cloud computing is one of the most certain investment opportunities. From the scale data of the cloud computing industry, we can also see that since the last three years of the Chess GPT fire, the cloud computing industry has started a new speed growth. In 2025, the expected income scale will reach 4.1 billion US dollars, which is 24% increase. Three leading companies, Amazon's AWS, Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud, will increase faster, which is 27% overall. Don't think that the 20% increase is not as good as the previous ten years This is because of the natural results of the scale effect It is already hard to achieve accelerated growth in such a large amount of cases But as investors, we analyze the growth of the industry The most important thing is not to look at its income After all, income is a post-election index It has already reflected the reality What we should look at is the investment of the enterprise This is the front-end index As the most experienced internal experts in the enterprise management field, if they dare to smash money, it often means that the future of the industry will have a greater potential for growth. The following picture is the front line of the investment of several cloud computing giants. As the saying goes, although Meta is not a cloud computing giant, it also builds its own data center and provides computing power for its own open source AI model. In fact, the logic is the same. You can see that all these technology giants are growing rapidly in investment. This means that there is still room for growth and release in the future of the industry. So we say that in the AI era, the cloud computing company will be a very certain and unprecedented field. This is definitely a very rare opportunity on the current US-based AI track. And for the cloud computing itself, the trend of companies going up in the past ten years is still there, and now it has added AI's new dynamic. The investment value of cloud computing companies has obviously been raised by another dimension. [Music] Speaking of which, I might have to say that the cloud computing industry is not a new thing. Just a few giants, who is different? If I don't remember, I'll just find the most powerful one. This is not a problem with such an investment. But recently, the industry has had some structural changes. I'm afraid it will completely subvert the entire industry's investment logic. Why do you say that? Here, I'll show you a few pictures first. This picture is the share of the global cloud computing market. The biggest is the three we mentioned above. Amazon's AWS, Microsoft's Azure and Google Cloud. They each account for 30%, 21% and 12% of the market share. This pattern has been a bit fluctuating in the past ten years, but there has been little change. The pattern of the top three groups is very stable. This picture shows the income and income growth of these three companies. Don't be afraid of the data, it's actually very good. Let's look at the second line of income growth. The growth of AWS, the leading industry, has maintained about 18% in the last two years, and is very stable. The future is likely to remain the same. The increase in the second edge is more than 35% And it is still accelerating 39% in the last quarter And it can still maintain this high increase in the future The third Google Cloud is small in volume, but the increase is not slow It can also reach 30% The future is basically this level Finally, let's take a look at the situation of these three companies that have not completed their orders. If the income is an increase that has been achieved, then the unfulfilled order is their future growth potential. You can see that the increase in the AWS is slowing down. Although the recovery in the last two seasons is the same as the increase of 25%, the return ratio has only increased by 60 billion dollars, which is at the same historical low point. 老二Edger則表現最為亮眼24年之後觸底反彈同比增長了37%環比大漲了530億美元遠超所有同行老三谷歌員的表現也不錯目前增速37%創下了三年來的最高水平 Overall, all these data, let's first leave the differences between each of them. We can clearly see that the entire industry has accelerated after 24 years. This is also in line with the industry trend we have analyzed above. But I think the more important thing is that, as you may have noticed, these three dragon heads are making some subtle changes. Today's focus is to find out the reason behind this change. From this, we can find the real opportunity to find the future of the cloud computing industry, the new investment logic and the hidden behind it. To find out the deep reason behind the change in the industry, the best way is to compare these technology giants horizontally. Since there are too few data leaked by Google Cloud, let's compare AWS and Azure first, and then compare with Google. From the previous data sets, we can clearly see that AWS is a bit more expensive, but it's slowly increasing. And Azure is not only stronger in speed, but also surpasses AWS in terms of increase. This is not a technical problem, but the two companies have a substantial development. So why is this happening? The most direct reason is the production capacity. In the past two years, the explosion of AI has actually hit all the cloud computing companies Because the growth of computing needs is too fast And it's not easy for the new data center to expand computing power So all the time these cloud service providers can't meet such a big market demand This one is facing the problem of productivity However, Microsoft is the first and most aggressive in this field of business in the data center. This can be seen from the capital expenditure of this technology. Microsoft has started to increase its capital spending in the first two or three years. This is the fastest movement in all technology. And in the following years, its increase is also the largest in all technology. This gives Microsoft the advantage of being able to release. Microsoft itself will not disclose the status of its GPU computing power release, but we can see some of the Because buying only GPU does not mean that these GPU computing power can be used, but once you really start using it, the cost of saving will be reduced from the financial side. The following picture is a summary of the performance of Microsoft's saving. You can see that in the last two seasons, the company's saving cost has increased dramatically. This may mean that the company has released a lot of computing capacity recently. Maybe this explains why the company's performance has increased in the last two seasons. And the reverse AWS, its rhythm is much slower Not only slow at the beginning, but even the recent算力投入 has dropped From the following image, it can be seen that the company's latest investment has slowed down to only $1.6 billion And you know that unlike Microsoft's main public address, Amazon and e-commerce have to take care of it There may be a lot of infrastructure that needs to be invested in e-commerce in the 16 billion The real investment in the data center may not be as high as this number We will talk about this later But at least we can see now The production capacity of Amazon is obviously more serious At the stage of the collective neck of production capacity Who can release more production capacity first Who is more likely to bring better growth And Microsoft is obviously ahead Since the production capacity is a problem, does it mean that in the future, when everyone has solved the production capacity, the three-party power grid can be returned? No, the production capacity is only a short-term limit, and a long-term change will always affect the industry's grid. And if we want to understand this, we have to go deeper. The following picture is a comparison between Microsoft's core Azure business and Amazon's AWS overall business. Microsoft Azure is divided into core Azure and AI Azure. The reason why we use core Azure and AWS as a whole is because their business nature is basically the same. They are mainly for providing traditional public cloud services. As for the details, we will talk about it later. Let's look at the data first. You can see that if you only look at traditional cloud services, in fact, AWS and Azure are the same curve. Not only the trend, but also the increase in speed. And don't forget that AWS itself has a larger number of technologies, so from the data, if this trend has to be maintained, AWS's leading position is actually difficult to be shaken. And from the definition, it is also like that. According to my research, AWS has a great advantage in the traditional cloud computing field. The advantage of Azure is mainly the connection between Microsoft and big companies, and the advantage of AWS is that it is really easy to use. It has the most professional and comprehensive cloud compatible infrastructure. I think it's obvious that the more you have, the more you have. Like every company, it's AWS's cloud service that they use. My technical team generally says that AWS is not a better use than Azure. I am not a technical person, but if you know the technology, please leave your feedback in the comments section. So if you only look at traditional cloud services, AWS's leading advantage is still very obvious. This is why the three-group gap in the past ten years has been so stable. But as you progress, you will find that the speed of the increase in traditional cloud services has started to slow down. Now, although the industry is still growing, it has already gone through the most shaky stage of growth. And at this time, a change of a century has appeared. What is it? AI. At the beginning of the video, we analyzed that AI is a comprehensive incentive for the human computing industry, and the root of this is the application of the language model. And on the language model, the back of Microsoft is the famous OpenAI. Microsoft's cooperation with OpenAI will last until 2030. In this process, OpenAI model training cannot be separated from Azure, others also need to use Azure's algorithm to use OpenAI. And the most critical thing is that Microsoft Azure has the exclusive API rights of OpenAI. What does it mean? That is to say, if the enterprise wants to call the GPT model on Yun service, it can only be used on Azure. This means that Azure has formed an entry monopoly in the AI application level. So that Microsoft can use this unique API usage right Will want to use OpenAI technology Business customers are firmly locked in their own ecosystem These customers will not only use AI models Will also buy other cloud services from Azure at the same time This creates a powerful flying wheel effect The bigger the open air, the bigger the Azure customer group On the contrary, the higher the open air entry space Then the position of Microsoft's cloud market is more solid And on the other hand, AWS also has a big model behind them, called AnsorPic. AnsorPic's Cloud model is considered to be the third largest model in the market, only in the third generation of ChessBT and Gemini. But it is more professional and mainly in the programming field. And because of the lack of overall user capacity, the number of potential users will be much smaller. And most importantly, the cooperation between AWS and Anthropic is not exclusive. Cloud has both an API interface on AWS and Google Cloud. Even in the programming field, AWS is also facing the risk of being separated. It can't play any absolute role for users. From the data, the latest quarter of 2025 has reached $4 billion, and it has maintained a 100% increase in speed. More importantly, we also saw the external effect that AI brought to Azure Cloud this quarter. We just showed you a comparison picture of the core Azure and AWS. At that time, I deliberately removed the latest quarter of the data, and the situation would be completely different. As you can see, the recent quarter of core Azure cloud has also been affected by rapid growth. The management said that this is because of the growth brought by the SAP user Shangyun. You should know that SAP customers are all large-scale companies like Quchao. These companies have always had their own local data centers. And this time Shangyun chose Azure. A big reason is also related to Azure's AI service. On the other hand, AWS has not revealed the size of AI revenue, but it is expected that it will not exceed 5%. This can be seen from the income comparison between AnswerPick and OpenAI. AnswerPick's second quarter income this year is less than 100 billion US dollars, which is a huge difference from OpenAI's annual annual 120 billion US dollars. In addition, the computing power used by AnswerPick is not only dependent on AWS, but also Google's share of it. So at this stage, AWS is still a business model based on traditional cloud computing. So you see, the difference between Azure and AWS in the difference in revenue increase in computing On the surface, it seems to be because of the limitation of productivity The actual cause is the difference in the ability of OpenAI and Anthropic, two AI model companies VRA relies on the cooperation of OpenAI On the one hand, it has gained a lot of revenue from OpenAI On the other hand, it also relies on OpenAI to tie more corporate users Let them have to choose Azure and continue to spend money It can be seen that the improvement that AI brings to Azure is comprehensive Although AWS also cooperates with Anthropic, the scale is far less than OpenAI, and the cooperation is not exclusive. So AWS not only needs to share with Google Cloud in terms of revenue and traffic, but also has no absolute confidence in its customers. So naturally, it can't eat so much AI power. This may be why AWS is not active enough in capital investment, because it has not seen enough certain AI needs yet. So in the AI era, who has the strongest AI model, who has the core power of cloud computing growth, and Microsoft is the leading one. Since we are talking about the importance of the big model, we must not go around the Google of Gemini. The ability of Google Gemini has improved rapidly in the past two years. In many areas, it can be compared with ChaiGBT. If our business logic is established, is Google Cloud also worth looking forward to? Because the center of the company is still on its search and advertising, the data leaked on Google Cloud is far less than the two companies above, so we can only analyze from a certain angle. From the structure of the client, Google Cloud mainly has three main users. The first type is a super large client like Apple, The second type is a large client in the traditional industry, such as Vodafone, the United States Professional Basketball League, MLB, etc. And the third type is the most important, they are a new AI enterprise. According to Google's own disclosure, nearly 90% of the AI independent companies and more than 60% of the AI startup companies that receive investment are Google's customers. And this includes Anthropic and Perplexity AI. Why is Google able to attract AI startup companies? The logic here is completely different from Microsoft. Microsoft is like Cao Cao, leading the emperor of OpenAI Google is more like Liu Bei He relies on soft power to lead the way Because Google has long set up a chip algorithm designed for AI Also set up a open source platform like TensorFlow When the large-scale model has not yet erupted Google is already the leader of the AI family So now there are many AI startup companies Have been in the Google ecosystem for many years Naturally, there is more trust in Google We know that the AI application companies in the current market are not yet successful, so it cannot really meet the needs of the algorithm. But you know that the future must belong to the AI application layer company, so this power may become a cavalry to charge into the market and subvert the existing cloud algorithm. But that doesn't mean Google is not worth paying attention to now. In fact, Google has made a lot of progress on the cloud, and has seen a lot of changes. For example, in May this year, Google has reached a cooperation agreement with OpenAI. OpenAI used to use Azure to provide computing power alone, and now it is starting to use Google Cloud computing power. At the end of September, Google Cloud signed a $10 billion deal with Meta for six years. Meta used to rely on AWS and Azure, and now they have transferred some core computing power to Google Cloud for the first time. There is an interesting phenomenon here, I don't know if you have noticed. OpenAI chooses to cooperate with Google Cloud, which is a bit suspicious. From the perspective of OpenAI, it would rather choose to cooperate with Google with direct competition,也不和毫无利益冲突的AWS合作 Does this mean that AWS is really not good at AI cloud service? I don't know what you think Overall, I think that Google Cloud is the most powerful, although it is not very high-tech Because it not only has the bar of Gemini, which is not a bad GPT, but also has the best ecosystem of AI applications However, from a realistic perspective, this potential has not yet reached the moment of real transformation into performance Investors still need to wait patiently The development of the cloud computing industry is not difficult to discover. The trend of traditional corporate cloud has passed the most shaky stage of growth. If there is no AI that is born out of nowhere, this industry may gradually move towards maturity, losing the stubbornness brought by high growth. The arrival of AI has completely changed the logic of the entire industry's investment. AI has completely changed the logic of the entire industry's investment. 在我看来,AI时代所带来的云计算需求是比互联网时代要更高更持久的需求而这种需求并不像AI应用那样净花水月它是现在就能实际翻译成业绩的一种需求不管是现阶段大模型的发展还是未来AI应用的爆发亦或是最终边缘AI的兴起,云计算都扮演着不可或缺的角色因此它也是我认为现今美股市场上极为罕见的极为罕见的兼具确定性和增长的AI投资机会 But at the same time, AI has also completely broken the previous industry pattern. At this stage, the key to determining the growth of the cloud computing industry is not just technology and scale, but the large-scale model that all companies rely on. The large model not only can bring huge computing needs to cloud computing, but also can be used as a leverage to drive the growth and longevity of cloud service providers. So it has become the main winner of the left and right cash and computing pattern Now, OpenAI is behind Microsoft, Gimini is behind Google, and AWS is a loose answer pick The positions and guidelines of each are clear The best of the three giants is obviously Microsoft. It was based on the most powerful large model of the present, ChaiGBT, and the exclusive contract ended in 2030. In this process, Microsoft's growth is guaranteed to be stronger. And the company's first effort was to solve the bottleneck of productivity and begin to change its bar. In my opinion, if Microsoft keeps this trend, it is likely that it will happen within a year if Azure surpasses AWS and becomes the boss of the industry. But as an investor, you have to know that Microsoft has always been a half-dead tiger It's different from other companies that have a little advantage in promoting their stocks Microsoft is often deliberately hiding its own style After this financial wave, Microsoft's management has specifically emphasized that such growth has nothing to do with AI But we just analyzed that this is definitely not the truth But why should Microsoft say that? This has something to do with the history of the company In 2000, Microsoft experienced a long-standing search for the stock market, which was only recovered after 10 years. Since then, Microsoft has learned to be good, actively reducing its profits, to avoid being exposed. I have made a video about this before, so I won't talk much here. And now it is the same. If Microsoft promotes the A, it is inevitable that it will be monitored again. After all, the exclusive API agreement with OPA is really a risk of monopoly. On the other hand, this kind of style is the best opportunity for investors. Because those companies that are overpowered by management layers, Microsoft's style is easy to make their stocks go down. This also brings us long-term investors better security. And the other two companies have their own problems. AWS is too late to arrange on AI, and it is not sure. Now it is still facing the problem of power loss. If the power is improved in the second half of the year, then the performance may be released. But the problem of AI layout cannot be solved, and long-term investment value is always a worry. And Google has a problem with the unidentified center of the management layer. Now the focus of the management layer is on Gemini. This should be done, after all, the problem of Gemini has been solved. Other problems, whether it's search or Google Cloud, are all solved. But Gemini needs a long time to really counter Google Cloud. The growth of cloud computing is not just as simple as technology, and it needs a lot of operation. And Google's resources are not here. So Google's investment logic is on Gemini, not on Google Cloud. In addition, the company's real potential has not yet arrived, and we don't know when it will arrive. This brings us more difficulty in investing. So if I were to choose, I would still choose Microsoft to run the board. Finally, we must be clear that AI changes cloud computing not only for the industry, but also for the overall risk of the industry. Just because the current stage of the large model is the most critical competitor On the contrary, it also shows that the pattern of the industry relies too much on the large model The reason why the previous three-group top-level pattern is stable It's because every company's success depends on its own technical characteristics and scale effects But now the competitiveness is dependent on the outside The risks of each company have also increased Now, it is openair leading, but who will be the final leader in the future? No one knows, even these cloud rich merchants themselves do not know This risk is something that all of us investors must bear Well, here, the cloud computing industry is over with you About the three major cloud computing giants mentioned in this video I have made a special video to analyze in detail before Their business is not just as simple as cloud computing If we really want to invest, we can't just look at cloud computing It is also necessary to know the full and deep understanding of the company I have listed the video to the video link below You can take it yourself If you want to see more deep analysis of each share Welcome to my METAL PRO In METO PRO, I will do a comprehensive basic analysis of each share and track down changes in the basic side in real time. In addition, I will also share the share opportunities regularly, share the macro report and daily news summary every month. For new investors, we also provide a systematic investment teaching. In addition to watching the content, you can also share investment profits and investment opportunities with the above 1000 members. Thank you for watching, and welcome to METO PRO, new users to use for free the first seven days. 如果你喜欢美投君的视频别忘了点赞关注和转发哦谢谢大家