Do you find your work meaningful?
Many people are unable to derive a sense of accomplishment or meaning from their work.
This phenomenon has become so severe that some scholars have specifically referred to it as "bullshit work."
But strangely
There are clearly many urgent problems in society that need to be addressed.
Inequality, climate crisis, low birth rate, labor shortage, populism, and tax avoidance by the wealthy
Why are most people in society not encouraged to handle these important issues in their jobs?
Instead, they're doing some utterly worthless work!
Today's video will introduce the book "Ambition".
We're about to analyze
Why do so many talented people end up doing jobs that offer no social contribution?
How to get rid of this damn job?
Unleash your talent and influence
Do something that truly contributes to society.
The author of this book is also the author of the bestseller "Compassion" that we introduced before.
His books have sold two million copies worldwide.
In this episode, we'll talk about...
How do you determine if your work is meaningful?
How should we rediscover our moral aspirations?
Let our work allow us to realize our ideals
It also makes a positive contribution to the world.
Is your work meaningful?
The author categorizes all work into four types based on two criteria.
They are whether one has ideals and whether one has ambitions.
The first type of job is one where one has neither ambition nor ideals.
For example, many jobs are so meaningful that even the employees themselves don't know what the purpose of their work is.
In other words, what anthropologist David Graeber calls bullshit work.
We previously reviewed an episode about a ridiculous job.
To learn more, please watch this video.
You need to know if the job you're doing is a piece of junk.
You can think about it.
If all the employees in the company go on strike and refuse to work...
Can society function normally?
Besides this damn job
Some jobs make money by hurting others.
Like an accountant who helps the rich evade taxes
Salespeople promoting pyramid schemes
There are also jobs in various gambling and tobacco industries.
Even if these jobs disappear
The world will not get worse.
It might get better.
A 2020 study even found
There is a certain negative correlation between salary and morality.
The higher the salary of a job, the more unethical and negatively viewed by society it tends to be.
Industries such as finance, gaming, and tobacco
The more useful a job is to society
The less reward you receive
It's as if capitalism rewards immoral behavior.
Punishing those who contribute to society
There is another type of person who doesn't even have a regular job.
Get rich through real estate and stock speculation
More and more people today yearn for this kind of life.
Achieve financial freedom by creating passive income
This way I can travel and enjoy nature every day without having to work.
This was also categorized by the author as belonging to the area of ​​having neither ambition nor ideals.
Because you seem to have freedom
But it also means
You will become a person who makes no contribution to society.
However, the author believes that the value of work should be based on "how much it contributes to society".
The second type of job
They lack ideals, but possess a strong ambition.
Many people set their ambitions on getting rich.
I'd rather do some jobs that don't offer any real ideals.
According to statistics
45% of Harvard graduates go on to work in finance or consulting.
Companies like McKinsey and Boston Consulting Group
This allows them to earn high salaries.
But from a social perspective
It is actually a huge waste of talent.
Economist Benjamin Lockwood used quantitative models to estimate
If we look at it from the perspective of "how much value is produced for society"
Whenever a young person decides to become a commercial banker
Society lost $100,000
Because this talented person could have done something that would have made a greater contribution to society.
Make the world a better place
But in order to earn a high salary
He wasted his talent.
The opportunity cost lost in this process is actually a loss for society as a whole.
This leads to a phenomenon
Many young consultants believe they have no value in the world.
This breaks a common misconception.
Everyone thought capitalism was very efficient.
However, modern capitalism has become inefficient.
Because it misallocates human resources
Let the smartest people in society
Do a bunch of things that contribute nothing to society
For example, Facebook hires graduates from Ivy League universities to design its software.
How can we get more people to click on their ads?
Addicted to their products
This allows businesses to earn more profits.
But the consequences were...
Many young people are addicted to electronic devices and suffer from mental illnesses.
If these Ivy League students
Use their intelligence to address the major problems facing the world today.
The quality of life for all of humanity has probably improved several times over long ago.
Then there's the third type of job.
He has ideals, but lacks ambition.
This is most common among Generation Z youth.
They often have great ideals
But in practice, they lack foresight.
Like young people fighting the climate crisis
Choosing not to fly
In order to counter capitalism and patriarchy
Choosing not to have children
To combat animal cruelty in the food processing industry
Choose not to eat meat
These actions all have good intentions.
But in reality, they retreat from reality.
Life becomes about defining yourself through "what I don't do".
Instead of what should be done
Many young people are influenced by awakening culture
Their formative years coincided with the start of public discussion.
Climate crisis, racial discrimination, gender inequality
Therefore, young people all have high ideals.
But it lacked the ambition to put it into practice.
It's just self-indulgence online.
Engaging in online debates with people who hold differing opinions
Therefore, the author said
Awakening alone is not enough.
We must also take action.
That is, to have moral ambition
This is the fourth type of work advocated by the author.
It can put ideals into practice
It also has moral ambition
Major advances in human history
It's all because someone did this kind of work.
For example
The abolition of slavery
It actually originated from Thomas Clarkson, a Cambridge University graduate.
He participated in the essay competition at Cambridge University at that time.
The question is: Is it permissible to force someone into slavery?
Clarkson originally knew nothing about slavery.
But driven by his ambition to become famous
He began to study slavery
turn out
Slavery was originally rife with injustice.
His paper ultimately won first place.
After winning the award
A thought flashed through his mind.
If the slavery I've written about is so terrible
And it is still being promulgated
Shouldn't someone do something about it?
Shouldn't this system be abolished?
Clarkson then got up and started to move.
I discovered an abolitionist website in London.
This made him feel very confident.
Discovering that I am not alone
He dedicated the next 61 years of his life to the abolitionist movement.
Petitioning and seeking support everywhere
Became the most important abolitionist of the time
This is what it means to have moral ideals
And possessing practical ambitions.
We can call this moral ambition.
Or moral aspirations
You might think
I have no moral ambitions.
I just want to be an ordinary person.
But often
If a thought flashes through your mind
They felt, "This is terrible; shouldn't someone do something about it?"
The most suitable person to take action at this time
It's actually you.
You don't have to wait for someone else to do it.
Because you are the one with moral aspirations.
Upon hearing the words "to realize one's moral aspirations"
Many people's first reaction might be
That's too ideal!
I'm not a saint.
This is the first myth the author wants to dispel.
Many people believe that one must have certain personality traits
Only those who can change society
However, research has found the opposite.
When the Nazis invaded the Netherlands in 1940
Most Dutch people know
The Nazis' sending of Jews to concentration camps was extremely cruel.
But most people believed that resistance was futile.
Why not just go with the flow?
It's not that they don't care about or are indifferent to justice.
Instead, he felt that he couldn't do anything to change this.
What most people can do
It means helping to hide Jews in your home.
But at the time, this would have been considered a very selfish act.
Because this would put the neighbors in danger as well.
Nazi police might come to your neighborhood to cause trouble.
But in the end, a few people still stepped forward.
Psychologists Oliner and his wife wanted to study the psychology of these few "rebels".
They interviewed 400 people who had helped Jews during World War II.
Trying to find their common ground
It was initially speculated that these people might all have an "altruistic personality."
However, the study found that...
These people are nothing special.
This led them to a conclusion.
Most people actually overestimate the threshold for action.
We all thought it required a lot of courage.
A person who is very willing to help others
Only then will they stand up against injustice.
Actually, it's not necessary at all.
The point is not what kind of personality traits you have.
It's not about whether you want to become that kind of person.
Everyone has the potential to change the world.
Not because you are a great philanthropist
So you did a lot of good deeds
It's because you've done a lot of good deeds.
Only then can one become an ideal virtuous person.
Further research by psychologists revealed
To motivate people to take action
There is a key element
Someone has to make the request first.
Most people don't actually cross the threshold of action on their own.
Most will likely adopt a wait-and-see attitude.
We need to get people willing to stand up.
Someone must make the request first.
If the first person stands up
People will follow one after another.
Harvard scholar Cass Sunstein called this the "contagion theory".
Moral ambition is contagious.
When you spread a new way of seeing the world
Infected people will be more willing to get up and take action.
For example, when discussing the American Civil Rights Movement
Everyone will think of Martin Luther King Jr.
But he wasn't actually the first to stand up.
The truly pivotal uprising took place in 1955.
Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat to a white person on the bus.
Violation of racial segregation regulations
Arrested by police
This incident sparked a bus boycott movement.
Blooming everywhere in Montgomery
Martin Luther King Jr. was only 26 years old at the time when he was infected.
He even said after the incident
"If anyone had asked me to lead this movement a year ago, I would have run a mile to get away from it." - Martin Luther King Jr.
However, someone had already made a request at that time.
You won't feel awkward.
On the contrary, people will feel that they are keeping up with the new trend of the times.
Therefore, the anthropologist Mead said
"Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world; indeed, it's the only thing that ever has." - Margaret Mead
The next question is...
How do we find the first group of people willing to lead the way?
The author's suggestion is...
He founded a cult
If you want to achieve certain ideals
One should not be afraid of being seen as a heretic.
The voices of progress in human history
They were initially regarded as heretics and evil sects.
For example, the abolitionist movement in Britain
It was actually initiated by the Quakers.
They numbered only 60,000 in the entire UK at the time.
Less than 1% of the population
However, the Quakers advocated equality.
Refuse to bow and scrape to the king and nobles
Instead, they advocate for a more egalitarian handshake and greeting.
This tradition later spread to the general public.
This is the origin of the handshake.
It also advocates gender equality.
Quaker women can serve as pastors and missionaries.
This was considered heresy in 17th-century Europe.
How can women be treated as equals to men?
Let's take another modern example.
During the height of the American Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s
In 1965, American lawyer Ralph Nader published a book called "No Speed ​​Is Safe".
It exposed the safety concerns many people had about cars at the time.
The accusation was leveled against General Motors, then a major American industrial giant.
General Motors even sent people to follow him.
wiretapping his phone
The matter later went to the U.S. Senate hearing.
President Johnson signed the traffic safety bill
Only then was it mandated that cars must have seat belts.
It is estimated that this bill saved at least 3.5 million lives.
He gave a speech at Harvard Law School in 1968.
Tell the students in the audience
You will all waste your lives after graduation.
Because your work involves working in various law firms
Helping large corporate clients exploit legal loopholes
Help them legally avoid taxes
He told the students
But you have a choice.
You can choose to serve the people instead of the business.
Two thousand years ago, in ancient Athens, Greece...
A very interesting concept has been developed: public citizen.
That is, people get up in the morning and go to work around the city.
In order to improve the city-state, as a full-time citizen.
He recruited seven law students at the time.
Organized into the Nader Raid Team
These legal professionals began publishing various legal reports.
This exposed the air pollution, water pollution, and food processing problems in the United States at that time.
Their team's book sold 500,000 copies in the United States.
They then use the royalties they earn to fund more research.
To become a virtuous cycle business model
Later, one-third of the graduates from Harvard Law School applied to Nader's company.
They all felt they finally had the opportunity to do something that could contribute to society.
There's no need to waste your talents fighting lawsuits for unscrupulous corporations.
Doing things that harm ordinary people
Many new bills in the United States
Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act
It's all thanks to the Nader Raiders
According to historians' estimates
At least 25 bills were enacted under their influence.
In 1971, The New York Times published 141 articles about the Nader Raiders.
They are regarded as heroes by many ordinary Americans.
Nader later even ran for US president four times.
This is achieved by creating one's own cult.
Successful cases of realizing moral ambitions
Now the author will criticize many of today's awakened cultural and social justice warriors.
These people all have a problem.
They held lofty moral ideals
I often feel that I am on the politically correct side.
So it's okay even if you lose.
As long as we uphold moral principles, that's fine.
This is what the author calls the noble loser.
These people only seek to stand on the right side of history.
Rather than actually making history
The result is that society today is filled with a lot of progressives.
But society is stagnating.
After the 2008 financial crisis
The number of protest movements has tripled.
However, the gap between the rich and poor in capitalism is widening.
The "Black Lives Matter" movement erupted in the United States in 2020.
15 million Americans took to the streets
However, it did not actually lead to any legislation.
In comparison
People who truly drive social progress
They all have one characteristic
We must win.
To regard victory as one's moral responsibility
For example, in order to win the American Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s
They will use different strategies to gain support.
Rosa Parks originally belonged to a radical Black women's group
However, after the incident broke out
In order to win the support of white people
She deliberately acted less radical.
To cultivate a mature and stable image to gain more support from white people
This allowed them to successfully extend the boycott for 381 days.
The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that racial segregation on public buses is unconstitutional.
Let the civil rights movement achieve final victory
But many progressives today don't care about victory.
Only care about their own sense of moral superiority
The author points out
To realize moral aspirations
We should avoid several types of hallucinations
The first is the illusion of an awakened culture.
Many young people believe they are participating in an awakening culture.
They occupied the moral high ground.
But in fact
Many people are just shouting slogans online.
No actual action was taken.
The most frequently criticized thing is
Many environmentalists criticize pollution
But he himself often travels by plane to attend international conferences.
Many awakened young people feel that they are on the side of justice.
But the point is not whether you are righteous or moral.
The key is that your justice must prevail.
The second type of illusion is the illusion of good intentions.
Many people believe that they should contribute their efforts to society.
Just do charity work.
They regularly donate money to charities and NGOs.
I feel that this is how I've done my part.
I believe I am a kind person
But if you look at the financial statements of many NGOs
You'll find that a lot of money might be spent on administrative expenses.
Or it could be that the organization is using the guise of charity to enrich itself.
So even though society is filled with so much charity...
But haven't you noticed that societal problems still exist?
The third type of illusion is the illusion of correct reasons.
Many people believe that promoting social progress
There must be a valid reason.
But in fact
Clever activists sometimes deliberately use the wrong reasons and methods.
To persuade people outside the stratosphere
Resonate with people
Psychologists call this strategy moral reframing.
For example, Thomas Clarkson, who promoted the abolitionist movement.
After studying the mortality rate on slave trade ships...
It doesn't just focus on the death of enslaved people.
Instead, it points out that the mortality rate among white sailors, a fact that even white people would care about, was as high as 20%.
This attracted the attention of British politicians at the time.
This led many white people to stand up against the slave trade.
This moral reconstruction shifts the focus to white people.
It seems immoral.
Because the focus should be on Black people.
But it allowed the abolitionist movement to gain more support from white people.
Another reason given for supporting the slave trade at the time was...
Black people are inherently a different race.
Lacking rationality, it needs a master to guide it.
At that time, there was a Black writer named Olaudah Equiano
He published a book recounting his story of being kidnapped and sold into slavery.
Because he himself had been a slave
Later regained his freedom
Therefore, it can be described from the perspective of the parties involved.
In his book, he deliberately uses narrative methods that would also move the British.
For example, he would say
I'm so shocked!
The British didn't treat each other like commodities to be sold.
I am amazed by the wisdom displayed by white society.
He first praised the white people.
They say they have higher moral standards
Let white people satisfy their vanity
This makes them feel morally responsible.
The slave trade must be opposed.
Only then can one demonstrate that they are a moral person.
But interestingly
Later, some historians discovered
Equiano's book may be fictional.
He may not have been born in Africa.
Born in the United States
He just made up a fake story.
To support the abolitionist movement
But the key point is
This fake story
But it created true history.
Because he won the support of the masses.
Abolition of slavery
This is the key to moral aspirationism.
The key is to win.
This certainly doesn't mean we should resort to any means to win.
Rather, it means that sometimes in order to achieve great things
We must consider more effective methods.
The fourth type of illusion is
Illusion of pure sex
Many progressives pursue purity.
It seems that progressives cannot have disagreements.
But in fact
Successful sports throughout history
Disagreements will occur.
Willing to tolerate infighting
For example, the women's movement in Britain
The goal from the beginning was to attract as many people as possible to join.
Without distinguishing class differences
In 1917
First, secure voting rights for women over 30 years old with property.
Once you take the first step, things will be much easier.
Because there is a precedent.
So ten years later
Working-class women also won the right to vote.
But today's progressives
The intertwining of identities is often debated.
This prevented the formation of an alliance.
The so-called interweaving refers to
Each person is a tapestry woven from various identities.
There are gender, race, class, and sexual orientation.
These different combinations can lead to different forms of discrimination and oppression.
For example, one group of people would say
If the feminist movement supports transgender people
That's not true feminism.
You don't consider transgender women to be women, right?
I don't think so.
What's it to you? Why is it your business?
Because it affects women legally and in our lives.
It absolutely will have an impact.
This doesn't affect anyone.
Of course it does.
The Western left has been paralyzed by this infighting within the internet.
They accused each other of not being progressive enough or not being left-leaning enough.
The result is
They excluded many of their original allies.
This is the price of pursuing purity.
Here's another example of pure hallucination.
Many leftists often harbor skepticism towards technology.
Because technology patents are usually held by capitalists.
Therefore, the left wing that pursues technology
They are usually criticized for not being progressive enough.
However, the author believes
Sometimes technology can also spark a moral revolution.
For example, the progress of gender equality in the 19th century
In fact, many of these achievements are due to technological innovation.
During the Industrial Revolution, many industries began to be mechanized.
However, there is one thing that has never been mechanized.
It's just washing dishes.
American inventor Josephine Cochrane thought
Why are housewives so busy washing dishes?
Why aren't there automatic dishwashers?
But at the time, no male engineers would think about this problem.
Because they don't need to wash dishes at home.
So by 1886
Cochrane obtained a patent for inventing the dishwasher.
This invention liberated many American housewives
In 1900
The average American housewife spends 58 hours on housework.
By 1975
The average time has dropped to 18 hours.
It was thanks to Cochrane's invention of the dishwasher
British feminist Helen Lewis even said
Whenever someone asks me who my feminist hero is
I can't help but answer "dishwasher".
We generally believe that human morality has been constantly improving.
People nowadays would think
In the past, the slave trade and the burning of witches were considered immoral and unacceptable.
Many people would think
This means we have reached the most civilized stage of development.
But could we now consider this normal?
Would they also be considered barbaric and immoral by people from the future?
The question is...
We don't have a time machine to see the moral values ​​of people in the future.
How do we know if what we're doing is immoral?
After all, we need to know first what constitutes immoral behavior.
Only then can we put our moral aspirations into practice.
The author raises six warning signs that we can refer to.
First, if something is morally problematic...
There must have been objections long ago; it's not like people are only objecting now.
For example, the abolitionist movement did not wait until the 18th century.
People suddenly had a change of heart and realized that slavery was immoral.
In fact, there have been voices against slavery for hundreds of years.
These voices have simply been marginalized.
Demanding that one be treated as a moral high ground by a demon of social justice
The second warning sign is
People often resort to tradition to justify wrongdoing.
It's like saying, "It's always been this way."
That's just how human society is.
For example, proponents of slavery in the 18th century often said...
Slavery has existed since ancient Greece.
If it were abolished, the entire national economy would collapse.
This is similar to how people today debate alternatives to capitalism.
Many people would say
For the past few centuries, capitalism has relied on the pursuit of economic growth.
That's how we achieved today's prosperity.
If we don't continue to focus on economic development, society will collapse.
In philosophy, this is called the fallacy of appealing to tradition.
Because human history has always been evolving.
Just because something was considered good in the past doesn't mean it will always be good in the future.
If everything is justified by the principle of "since ancient times"...
Human society will not advance further at all.
Like when the American women's movement promoted gender equality in the 1960s
At the time, patriarchal figures could not imagine women entering the workplace.
In response,
But since ancient times, women have always stayed at home taking care of children and doing housework.
Actually, looking at it from another perspective
The so-called since ancient times
Many of these are simply backward traditions that humanity once had.
It is not necessary to continue maintaining it.
It is precisely through changing traditions that society can progress.
The third warning sign is
When we deliberately remain ignorant of certain things
Perhaps it's because we know deep down that this is immoral.
So I deliberately avoid knowing more.
For example, many fast fashion products
They are all exploited through layers of the industrial chain.
Consumers may know a little bit about it.
But they deliberately avoid delving deeper or learning more.
Because when you know more
This can cause one to waver in whether their behavior is moral.
Or we know that Taiwan has affordable health insurance.
Many people may know that this is built on the blood and sweat of medical staff.
However, society deliberately avoids discussing it.
Because people already know enough.
If we continue to know more
People will start to question
Is cheap health insurance unethical?
Should the fees be increased?
Here comes the fourth moral warning.
If something is immoral
Usually after someone points it out
This can easily provoke an angry public reaction.
For example, Mary Wollstonecraft, a pioneer of the British feminist movement.
He published "A Vindication of the Rights of Women" in 1792.
This article immediately drew criticism from angry patriarchal figure Thomas Taylor.
He wrote an article called "In Defense of Beasts"
He criticized
If opening up to women grants them the same equal rights as men...
Does that mean dogs and cats will have equal rights in the future?
We now know this is a classic landslide fallacy.
If a large number of people were to become so angry as to attack a certain progressive value...
It's very likely because it hit a certain pain point.
This points out the existence of immoral things in society.
The fifth moral warning is
An immoral act can be very difficult to explain to a child.
Because children have not yet undergone socialization
It's easy to see through the hypocrisy of the adults.
For example, when the United States still had a system of racial segregation.
White children cannot play with Black children overnight.
Back then, white kids would ask their parents...
Why can't he stay in our house?
The parents didn't know how to explain.
You have to find all sorts of reasons to say
Oh, there's nowhere for him to sleep at home.
White children would ask in return
But my bed is definitely big!
This left the parents speechless.
The final sixth warning
We can imagine
What is it from the perspective of people from the future?
It might seem barbaric
Just like how we view slavery 200 years ago.
They also felt that the people at that time were very barbaric.
100 years from now
How will our descendants view today's society?
If we look back at the evolution of morality over the past half-century
We will find
Progress often happens in one thing.
It means the expansion of the moral sphere.
People initially believed that rights should be extended to all male citizens.
Then the feminist movement emerged
Extending rights to women
Then came child welfare and LGBT liberation.
Expand rights and interests further
By the end of the 20th century
Another animal liberation movement emerged.
More and more scientific empirical studies have found
Even small shrimp in the animal kingdom have the ability to feel pain.
Therefore, the author believes
Animal liberation may very well be the next wave of moral revolution.
Because of the animal liberation movement
You will then see many of the moral warning signs we mentioned earlier.
Historically, many people have opposed the exploitation of animals.
From Pythagoras of ancient Greece
Leonardo da Vinci during the Renaissance
Again
Many consumers do not go further to understand the origin of meat products.
This is a form of deliberate ignorance.
You may have heard that industrial farms are cruel.
But most people won't go any further to find out what happened.
And whenever animal rights activists come out to call for vegetarianism...
They are often attacked for saying
Don't assume that being vegetarian makes you morally superior.
Another point is that adults and children have different moral views towards animals.
Children often think that eating animals is cruel.
A study found
Four out of five children believe that beef and pork should not be eaten.
The adults seemed to be intentionally keeping the child from knowing.
The meat they eat is from the same animal as Peppa Pig in the cartoon.
Because if the child finds out...
This might lead to doubts about adults' moral values.
Therefore, the above six warning signs
It is what the author provided to us.
Methods for assessing whether something will be considered immoral by future generations
We can use these standards to evaluate
How to promote social progress
In this episode, we introduced moral aspirations.
We now think it's barbaric for people 200 years ago to support slavery and patriarchy.
When our descendants look back on this era 100 years from now...
You might think it's unbelievable that people 100 years ago allowed such extreme inequality between the rich and poor.
They actually allow capitalism to endlessly develop and destroy the Earth's environment.
That's just too barbaric.
From the perspective of people in the future
We may all be a bunch of immoral barbarians.
To change this situation
What we may need is a moral revolution.
Too many bullshit jobs have been created in the world today.
It wastes the talents and abilities of most people.
When we abandon these jobs that waste our talents
Turn to moral aspirationalism
We can then contribute our own efforts to society.
Want to showcase your ideals and ambitions in a refreshing way?
This Vitality Maca contains a sufficient amount of 5000 mg of maca and arginine.
It can help regulate bodily functions and enhance endurance.
There are also recommendations from professional physicians and scientific evidence-based research.
Patents awarded in Germany, Japan, and Taiwan
Whether you want to improve your stamina or are someone who easily runs out of energy
You can try this Vitality Maca.
I've been taking Dayan's Vitality Maca for a while now.
Personally, I feel quite energetic.
It's not easy for the power to go out in the afternoon ⚡️
And I originally thought these kinds of things would have a weird smell (??)
But it has a glucose-like sweetness.
There's also an indescribable flavor of traditional Chinese medicine.
I think it's not bad to eat.
This can be based on personal preference.
It can be eaten directly or soaked in water.
Vitality and Spirit Maca
A must-have helper for office workers and fitness athletes
Enter the exclusive discount code "SuperY" now.
New members will receive an immediate discount of 500 yuan.
For more product information, please see the information bar below.