Hello everyone, I am Anthony
Welcome to my channel
Today I want to talk to you about
A common mistake many people make when making decisions
It's statistical thinking
A few days ago, a netizen
Shared your observations and thoughts with me
He found that his peers
There is a general convergence
and self-avoidance tendencies
Just based on the characteristics of the object
Make decisions based on objective data
But lack of analysis and understanding of their own reasons
For example
See if a certain profession is currently the most popular or has the highest income
Just choose this major
For example, artificial intelligence and finance
When choosing a love partner
We also make decisions based on the most mainstream data.
For example, a boy's parents told him
The girl you like
It's too different from your family background.
Based on past cases
This combination is unlikely to be happy.
So you should choose one we think
A girl who is well matched with her
Similarly, according to some data
Too big of an age difference
The probability of happiness will also be lower
So you should find one
Those whose age difference is within 3 years, etc.
For example
The parties feel
One must follow some so-called general trend
Or it can be said that it is a trend, a bonus of the times, etc.
For example, housing prices, stock market or a new industry, etc.
Little or no consideration is given to one's own subjective
Emotions, interests, cognition, etc.
We can combine the above situations
Statistical Thinking
This can be said
It is a universal way of thinking
But it is more common in Chinese society.
Therefore, we will often mention this concept in the future
Then this video
Let's have a preliminary discussion
If you are interested in today's video
or
Do you have any topic you want to discuss with me?
You can contact my email to make an appointment
So let's get back to our topic today.
We say
Typical statistical thinking
Can be abstracted as
Make decisions through regression analysis and optimization models
That is, by adjusting the values ​​of each variable
Make it as close to the ideal "optimal solution" as possible
This increases the probability of successful results
Take our marriage as an example.
In China
Many parents draw on their own life experiences
and observation of samples around us
Summarized a set of rules about marital happiness
And use this to guide and intervene in children's mate selection
Function of marital happiness
Can be summarized as a weighted combination of multiple variables
These variables include age differences, family background differences,
Education gap, household registration gap, whether to buy a house,
Whether they are in the system, whether their parents have pensions, etc.
Each variable
and the ultimate stability of marriage
There is some correlation
And each variable has clear constraints
For example, the smaller the age gap,
The more similar the family background and the closer the region, the better
Because the statistical law shows that
In real life
These variables cannot reach their ideal values.
Individuals can only try to adjust these variables
Make it as close as possible
Of course, in reality
Few people use such a rigid model to make decisions.
But the problem is not the level of accuracy
This way of thinking is problematic.
The problem here
It's not just because we can't be perfect.
If only because the ideal is too perfect
Impossible to do
Then the solution to the problem is to settle for the next best thing
Just choose the best solution within your capabilities.
However, the key to the problem is
In fact, there is no universal
Perfect standards and optimal solutions
because
The subjective meaning that each person assigns to an indicator
Can be the exact opposite
The subjective meaning given to objective indicators is itself
Often more important than objective indicators
Although statistical laws reveal a certain level of truth
But this truth is true for individuals
Often external
We say that we need to analyze two people.
Can you build an intimate and mature relationship?
Those internal standards
for example
The degree of compatibility between the personalities and personality structures of both parties
Often more realistic than external indicators
Or
Even if we compare some external indicators
We must first examine and consider from an internal perspective.
This means
There is no such thing as objective data that is independent of subjective spirit.
For example
A person thinks the higher the partner's income, the better
He may
Seen as the key to a successful marriage
Another person may feel
Family warmth and intimacy
More important than material conditions
He may place more emphasis on the emotional quality of his partner
and spiritual support
Both
Seemingly facing the same external standard of income
But the value orientation behind it is completely different
The significance they attach to this objective standard
There is a world of difference
The result of marriage
There are also huge differences
We say that positivism and natural science
It needs to be built on a series of observable
Above the operational standards
However, when it comes to human spiritual phenomena
Continue this line of thought
It often leads to a superficial
Many people
Always look at human nature from the perspective of natural science
That is, the separation of subjective and objective thinking.
In positivism
Objective laws do not depend on the subjective experience of the observer
Independent existence
It can be verified by experiments
However, in terms of human psychological reality
The objective standard itself
There is no inherent meaning
It is through each person's inner experience, emotional needs
and value assignment
This subjective meaning
A phenomenon more important than so-called objective criteria
It's actually very common
for example
Social support theory tells us
Good social support
It is a valuable psychological resource
When individuals are in trouble and under pressure
He will feel isolated and helpless
Then I was engulfed by anxiety and fear
Social support
It can make individuals have more energy
To escape the crisis
Social support
Can be divided into
There are two types of social support: actual social support and perceived social support
Practical social support
Refers to the actual support an individual receives
For example, help from friends or family members
Such as monetary assistance, practical care,
Help solve practical problems, etc.
These supports
It is a specific, quantifiable, and visible behavior.
Understanding social support
refers to
Individuals’ subjective experience and perception of support
This is obviously not easy to be counted and quantified.
However, researchers found
Understanding social support
Stronger impact on mental health
That is to say
How individuals perceive
The care and support from the outside world
Often more than how much support they actually get
More important
Even if a person does not receive direct help
But if he feels that he is cared for and valued
Then his mental state is often more positive.
More resilient
And if he thinks
I don’t get support and understanding from others
Even if you actually get some help
He may also feel isolated and helpless.
for example
A child encounters a difficulty
His parents helped him solve this problem.
For example, providing resources or making decisions on his behalf
Another child
With the encouragement and support of parents
Solve it yourself
As a result, the first child
Although more practical social support
But he still felt powerless and insecure.
The second child
I feel that I am always in an emotional state.
Accepted and supported
Maybe his parents
Unable to provide him with much practical support
But his sense of control and self-efficacy will be better
This can explain
Why do some children
I have received so much help and support from my parents.
But their self-confidence and psychological resilience are relatively poor.
Some people would guess
Is it because the conditions are too favorable?
They won't work hard?
The answer is of course not
Actually
Most of the support these children receive is external.
For the spiritual support that really matters
They happen to be quite needy and poor.
Therefore, we say
The so-called objectivity presented by many external indicators
Often removes the deeper meaning that individuals give to a story
and emotional resonance
These external data
Just cold numbers and standards
The truth behind it varies from person to person.
For example
The same is true for choosing a school or a career
One person's income is lower than another person's income
But his work
It is a choice made after thorough exploration.
So his job is easier for him
Bring more satisfaction and value
This means
His work status is sustainable and developmental
The other person has a higher income
However, he was unexamined
I chose this job blindly.
Or maybe it's driven by some kind of survival pressure.
He often felt disgusted and miserable.
I only continue to do this job out of fear.
His state is unsustainable.
Statistical thinking doesn’t focus on what’s underneath the numbers
The unique intrinsic meaning given by the individual
Even think that these factors are not scientific enough
The depth and uniqueness of individual experience
Considered as a factor that needs to be eliminated
turn out
Statistical thinking
Only focus on the most external standards
and quantifiable indicators
For example, you may often use your mobile phone
Brush to such articles or short videos
for example
Top 200 Chinese University Graduates with Average Monthly Salaries in 2024
These articles
Usually in the title
Will add some eye-catching content
For example, a certain university ranked among the top 4 this year.
A certain university failed to make the top 10, etc.
This article usually lists several items
For example, the types of colleges
Is it a polytechnic or comprehensive university?
For example, whether it is a 985 university, etc.
Tsinghua University ranks first
The average monthly salary for the class of 2023 is 13,000 yuan
Henan University of Science and Technology ranked 200th.
Monthly salary is 4,700 yuan
There are also many lists that count high-paying majors.
For example, this list
Listed the undergraduate graduates six months after graduation
Top 10 majors by monthly salary
Most of them are computer-related majors
It should be noted that
Are the above data accurate and rigorous enough?
Not important
Here we are first concerned with such a question
These are the statistics
What message does it convey to readers?
Or
When a person reads this data
What on earth is he reading?
When we read the text
We actually
Also accepting
How texts construct our self-perception
Assuming you are a graduate
See the monthly salary ranking of universities
You might come and have a look
Where does your university rank in this list?
and your income
Is it lower than the average of your university?
If below average
You may feel inferior
I feel like I'm lagging behind my peers.
Since these data
It seems so direct and certain
This inferiority complex will become more unquestionable
Then you might think of
Above oneself
There are many college graduates with better grades
Have higher income
I am just one of millions of people
A trivial sample
Then you feel even smaller.
If you were still a high school student
When you see this data
You will feel that your choices are more limited
That is at all costs
Get into a higher ranked school
Or higher-income professions
besides
There is no other meaning or choice
People who are stuck in statistical thinking often emphasize
These gaps are the naked reality.
It is an objective law
However
This rule
It is just a way of interpreting reality.
You might say
Some professions do have higher average incomes
Isn't this obvious?
However, the important question is
How do these averages relate to you?
We assume
A profession or industry
The occupational performance of all individuals is normally distributed
Most individuals' abilities, achievements and performance
All are concentrated within one standard deviation around the mean
A few individuals will be far away from the mean
The tails at both ends
These outliers that deviate from the mean
Often lies outside the mean plus or minus three standard deviations
The probability of these data is extremely low
Maybe very prominent
Maybe a big failure
They are certainly not statistically likely
However, if you can clearly realize
Your real interests
You can take the road less traveled.
try
Make yourself an outlier from the average
These are two completely different strategies.
The strategy adopted by many people is
I want to join a group with a higher average
Strive to become
Most of this group
Just keep up the pace.
In this case
So
I just need to consider and compare external indicators
For example, the average income of each group is higher
I don't need to think about what I like and what suits me
Another strategy
Consider more
How to maximize your potential
Discover your own uniqueness
Then
Then find your own market segment and group
Obviously the first strategy
More likely to lead to individual convergence and repetitiveness
The second strategy
will tend to encourage you to be the outlier
That is, a more unique irregular existence
The first strategy seems rational.
but
It is based on an unverified assumption.
That is
I assume that I am a person without any inclination or potential.
No special features
Ordinary people like blank slates
Only such people
No internal factors need to be considered.
But do such people really exist?
This assumption of ordinary people is actually not natural.
It is largely self-fulfilling
Self-actualized
That is to say
If you don't dig into yourself, be aware of yourself
Then your life
It will indeed appear to have no particularity or uniqueness.
And if you start digging into yourself
Learn to embrace your emotions
Then you will surely find
The part that cannot be restored to data
Although our channel often says
Many people lack reflection
Living a monotonous life
However
When we try to understand a person's inner world
Understand his life history and emotional experience
After understanding a certain depth
We will all be able to discover
The unruly side of human beings
at first
You might use some external tags
Take control of yourself
For example, I am a post-80s
I am a college graduate
There are 500,000 people like me in this city.
However
When I delve into the details and logic of my life history
This is what anthropology calls thick description.
I will find
My many emotional experiences
It cannot be easily categorized and counted.
It is also impossible to quantify, predict and restore.
These emotions are related to the individual's growth trajectory,
The key moments in life are closely related
When you start reflecting on these emotions
You will gradually discover
Your own intrinsic motivations differ from others
You will find
Behind these emotions
What is hidden is between you and others,
The deep connection you have with yourself
It is these unique emotional experiences
Who you are today
Let's discuss this topic later.
That's it for today's video
Finally, let me say
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact my email directly
for example
You want to discuss an article or a paragraph with me
A video, a social phenomenon
Or your diary
Please send me the relevant text in advance.
I will read it before the formal communication
or
You want to discuss your life experience with me
Confusion and emotion
All are possible
If you are concerned about privacy, security
Any questions about payment and communication methods
Please also tell me in time
If you are unable to pay or join the membership
Please contact me too
I will provide other ways
Please refer to this picture for details
I will post this video
Put it in the list of "Psychology and Education"
Also recommend to everyone
Check out my other videos in this list
Thank you for watching
goodbye!