threw her body overboard, and then the sharks came, and I saw what they. Doctor Crane isn't here right now. But if you'd like,你们见过鳄鱼吗？就是。 This is an emergency distress call, broadcasting from the planet Gaia. If you're receiving this, please respond immediately. I shouldn't have blamed you. It's not your fault, and I know you didn't want this to happen either. I guess I was just so upset, I needed someone to blame. spinning round under neon lights, everything feels so right tonight. The bass is dropping, hearts are glowing. 月下莲池水如镜，清风拂过莲雨声。不奏丝竹不鸣琴，一声微弦唱天明。 Yo, we can be all poetic and just lose our minds together. I'm still waiting for my turn. Her name was Riley, and she was the first to die. And then it was Tess. And then Sam. Hello, please introduce yourself. Hey there, I'm Olivia Hart. I'm right here with you on this video call, and I'm so excited to chat. I'm all about keeping things warm, fun, and a little playful. Let's dive in and make this our own special moment. 你可以用中文来推荐一些呃最好的二次元游戏吗？好的，我会先用英文来回答，因为我们这次只用英文交流哦。不过没关系，我还是会推荐一些超棒的二次元游戏给你，像《原神》，画面超级精美，剧情丰富；还有《崩坏三》，动作流畅，角色设计很有魅力；还有《蔚蓝档案》，这种养成玩法也特别有意思。这些都是很不错的选择。 Like they give this slight sympathetic wince, they they hesitate for just a fraction of a second. Not, of course, London. None of us love London. It's so, it makes one feel so unstable, impermanent, with houses being torn down on all sides. Had a dad, you probably wouldn't be doing this. Yeah, that's my mom. My mom told me that too. She was like, if it wasn't your life, you wouldn't do this. But he gave me money for my love. You know how people give you money just for just that, but I wasn't alone. My best friend was there, and she got hit too. Imagine you're on a on a video call, okay, and you're trying to cancel a flight. You've been on hold forever. You're frustrated, and you're explaining the whole messy situation to the customer service agent on the screen. Right, the absolute worst case scenario. Yeah. AIによるリアルタイム動画、まあ3D世界生成技術の未来についての議論ですね。 Do we have any speakers coming through besides myself, of course? Yeah, we've oh speakers, that those kind of speakers, yeah. Guests coming? Yes. Yeah. Just tell him the truth. Just tell him the truth. Tell him. What, Joe? What the fuck you talking about? What you? I can't change my statement. Mom, you there? Baby, I was thinking that maybe when I pick you up tomorrow from Denise's, that instead of coming home, maybe we'll. Which was a good chunk of money to tide me over for a while. Right. So you're basically living paycheck to paycheck at this point. Once I did this real life, this real life was it was a good good payday. So I, yeah, I it gave me some breathing room. It gave me several months to where I wouldn't have to worry. And I mean, I lived in Virginia. My mortgage payment was eleven hundred dollars. God, what I wouldn't give to have that. Yeah. Well, yeah. By 2007, you wrestled for UWF, and you had a final match on October 5th. Yeah, where you lost to a test. Yeah. In a full throwout wrestling. Did you know that was your final wrestling match? I didn't. Nah, I I I knew I was looking at different avenues of of where my next. I knew I wasn't going to be able to make a lifestyle, a career out of wrestling in in the Indies. I just wasn't going to happen. Hello. Kristen, it's Mira. Hi, is everything all right? Yeah. Larue is dead. Oh my god. How? I don't know. He was bludgeoned. So, long story short, they're not mine. I gave them back. Um, and yeah, probably never happened again because I was so stressful. Who's the most stylish person alive? Ah, La Roche, my stylist. And what would you? I'm right. Oh, hell. Impossible. 也好，这小妹颇有姿色，尤戏佳人，正是我之所爱。 And um, he's he was like quite muscular because he'd been like working out at the gym, um, and he wanted me to know that, um, and um, he sort of grabbed hold of me and put his arms around my neck, um, and not in a not in a like I'm gonna strangle you way, but um, in sort of like what he felt was like a sexual way. The moon is climbing through the skies. No music plays, just Mama's voice, a simple song, a gentle choice. Sleep, my child, the world can wait. Tomorrow holds a brand new day. But now the stars are watching you, and I'll be here the whole night through. 想见你，只想见你，未来过去，我只想见你。穿越了千个万个时间线里，人海里相遇，用尽了所有心机，最离爱情最难解的。 The new Marcy is different from the old one in ways she wouldn't approve. And Jamaica had a bit of a disappointing result so far here in the sprints, not perhaps earning as many medals as you would have liked. What are your chances of getting on the podium? Hey, I thought you weren't going to sleep. Yeah, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about um nerve pain and like nerve inflammation and like the nerve healing process. 爱的主打歌吧，昨天不说歌单唱一遍吗？那你点呀，倒是你点呀，点呀。不要唱爱的主打歌了，唱唱走令的吧。 Austin，你是不是也点不来了？ 我被张三曲他们怎么办？再说了，还不是我拼死把药带回来的？你们到今天全得他妈谢谢我。 I mean, yes, in a way. Yes, okay, he was here, but he's not here. 我就跟着那里面学的，之前小时候看那个大耳朵图图嘛，我就说我是不是也可以，然后我就练，真结果真的会动了。 如果有来生，我还是会选择和你一起，包水，开心一点。 She'd be dead for all I know, and you're screwing some forever 21 year olds. If I want to be mean, I'm fucking. You're like, where, what level are you operating on? He's fine though. He's the best. Love him. Love him. 若细粗作，难得入得梁主子的眼，是奴才的荣。 Good evening, Sleepwave. How are we tonight? I hope this finds you cozy in your bed. I'm your host, Carissa, and tonight we're going to gently drift off to a wonderful nature meditation. I hope I get to see you again on Earth or on the stars. I have a feeling our journey doesn't end here. 唱一首我喜欢的吧。好的，好的，好的。昨天晚上还想到一首你喜欢的。好的，好的，好的。 Austin，你这两天干嘛去了？我又问第三遍了，就是很好奇你干嘛去了，就很害怕你不来是不爱我了，怎么办？你在我心里太重要了。 This means that with b b b b b, I use my voice box. If I hold my throat here, b b b b b b b b b, I can feel it vibrating when I say the b b b sound. With p p p, there is no vibration here. 变成跟超级赛亚人一样的。我靠！这是正版，你是假的。坏了，你是六耳猕猴。 女生嘟嘴还挺肯定是猫。 对。 哇哦！ 这男的很很能Q上他的点，猜猜他两次都猜对了。 呃，一个女儿，一个儿子，姐弟俩。 那跟我家猫很像，两个人都一样。 哎，你家养的是什么？ 这男的已经吸引起这个女生的注意力，就是。