(歌曲) 愛如無法無瑟 情同觀世意離難而無難 寂寞好天長愛如無法無瑟 情同觀世意 (歌曲) In the middle of the year, someone went out to get things. I said that eight people came to take the post. Do they know he has cancer? Know Know he has cancer, right? He is in the guidance center. The guidance center is here. The guidance center of Wu Jingzhong is here. Yes He is not responsible for the accident. He is illegal. Now you can say it yourself. Chinese medicine is the biggest in the country. It is not advertised in the United Nations. Now it is being used in China. Many patients are suffering from this medicine. One child is suffering from a mental disorder. He is on the second floor. He is from our county. Like he is eating that Eat and eat and drink Eat and dry The medicine he took was very bad The medicine he took was very bad If he doesn't stop, he will say this He died again How did they know you had AIDS? The police asked me about the situation. They took out the medical records. They said it was the disease. The doctors and nurses all ran away.一说是这个病他们那个医生护士全部都吓跑了 I was lying there for 30 or 40 hours, no one was there to help me. No one was there to help me. The nurse came down and ran away. I didn't see anyone. Then our current patients came. When the patients came, I heard that the situation was very bad. I was angry and I smashed his things. How did you get to this hospital? I had no choice but to ask the director of the city council and the county governor to take care of us. The money was all over the place, so I turned it over. Do you all have this book? Yes, each of us has a letter. Where is the person? When did you move in? March 3rd Yes yes yes You are the only one who is at home this spring Yes It's hard Yes, it's hard Don't cry Don't cry [Coughing] The We went to a village, more than 3,000 people's village, more than 500 people a day to sell shoes More than 800 people found out that they had cancer and 500 people did not check It's really serious Is it powerful? I'm going to. I'll be back at five o'clock Let's go I don't know how many people died, no one knows, it's always a history why? People died in the 80s, even if they didn't know about the AIDS, they didn't know sell shoes right? People died in the 90s, I met AIDS in 1996, I didn't know yet 给你说这个书写的干咱们比卖钱的还多现在的话只是不公开而已不公开是什么意思呢因为这个书写问题与党管有贼人啊为什么这么说呢他制止卖钱 我会一会儿给你个材料不是喝难 而是穿脖性的这个问题 第二个问题就是说现在在算船上不能实事求是而且我们要说人家是稀度传播的人家是票场满印传播的我不否认是警察播,我也不否认稀度传播但是最大多数是稀传播另一方面这个样的话弄得病人受歧视因为他到底有问题吗所以他不敢公开审讯 要是考所,有三分之二不敢公開成分要是狠說,五分之四都不敢公開成分高老師,您的時間都放在這些上面了買貨退休了以後不是沒事兒嗎印書寫書,編書 I have printed this small thing 1.2 million to the underground, to the countryside, to the windmill in the town you are free to send, right? free, I am all free to send you see, today's delivery is definitely free I am all free to send why? you ask why there is no money to buy here another one is a dime, you can't keep one dime right? all the words are put here You see, you are not lazy at all today. If you had come five years ago, he would have caught you and told you not to eat tonight. He would have eaten you. If you were to take away Gao Yanlin, Professor of the University of Fudan University, you would only be given 50 yuan. If you took away my 500 yuan, everyone would know that my family is higher than them and I failed. Why did he take you away? He took me away. He wanted to drive me away. I was in the village. He saw me in the car and he was in a bad mood. He didn't want me to be there. I was in the village. After he was done, I went back. I didn't go to the village. I went to the village. I walked seven villages that day. I met more than 100 patients. 你說每一個水塔下面都是一個對對對都是一個高發圈都是一個高發圈鄉下這這麼多粉地 This is Huoyang Village. Some people are living here. There are over 600 people living in this village. Over 300 people have died in recent years. We were originally in the religious area. There was a history of starvation in the religious area. In the past, we were the rich. In 1975, the Songhua chain was flooded. It flooded us and flooded thousands of people. Many houses were destroyed. 然后在75年的时候你想75年到八几年短短的几年时间那么改革开放改革开放对农民是一种诱惑那么我们才考虑到就说我没房子住了土地刚分开仅仅过了一段好日子就没几年但是紧接着来的是什么呢 改革开放以后就说农民的科学杂碎各项的费收提高了那么正好学疆经济产生就是说有人去卖学卖学的话就带了我们大家都去买学但是后来到了80年代末的时候90年代初的时候几乎全民皆兵了河南当时是400多个学单 Thank you for watching. How many people are at home? There are six people at home And you're still in the woods Two old people in the car How much patients do you want? Three patients The house is about to collapse The place where I live is about to be gone The old people said they would sell the money when they came to the village I went to the village to sell the money I went to sell the money I have to pay the interest if I want to sell the money I would buy some and send him back He would buy some, I would buy some I would never sell my land to him I would buy some if he was still alive I would give him a check, and he would give me a check if he was still alive I was working and didn't think I was healthy. I was so scared when I found out that my child was sick. Now we have 40 people in our village. Now we have 30 people. Two people from three villages. Now we have 9 people. The village is not big. There must be no one from three villages. No one from three villages came. Now there is a valley. There must be no people. One day, one person died of a cold. Now the country is 40 yuan a month. 40 yuan a month. I'm afraid that it's not good for me! I'm afraid that I can't do things right! I'm afraid that I can't be with you! I'm afraid that I can't be with you! I don't know if I can be with you. I don't know if I can be with you! I don't know if I can be with you. I'm afraid of losing you! I'm afraid of losing you! I don't know if I can be with you! I don't know if I can be with you! The police came to call. What did they say? They said there was someone there. An officer was there. The officer knew about us? Yes. He didn't allow us to go to his house? Yes. The government has been saying that there is a virus, but we are still under the protection of the government, and we are now in the middle of the lockdown. The government is also not allowed to visit the people who have died because of the coronavirus. Now the government is now in the news of the seal. You said you can't go to see him tonight   We have sand and fire trucks here. We have sand and fire trucks here. We have a lot of people with this disease. We have a lot of people in this village. There must be a lot of people in the city. How did your father die? He was killed by a bird At home? Yes, in my hometown DongWu DongWu and I were killed by a bird After I got the disease My father was born with a suicide He was ill and couldn't see He couldn't do anything I have no hope in the future. I don't want to live. I was so self-conscious last year. Can you help me to finish this place? Three years. Finish this place.  small people in that place to sell shoes, dad is all shoes from the store room to put a red red red shoes 159 159 is the 158th military district of the Jinnan District to open this to open this to open this to open this to open this to open this to open this to open this to open this to open this to have a bad one he gave you a big sum of money I didn't know anything about that In 2001, he found out about the disease He told me he was diagnosed with cancer My buddy didn't believe it He thought how could he have been diagnosed with it This patient is very despised in our place I was very proud and bought two bottles of rice noodles at home. He said he didn't want to live here. I said, if you don't live, what will you do? If you don't live, what will you do? I said, if you die, what will you do? At that time, we just had one person die in our village. One died in Ayubing. Look at his I heard that the blood of the patient was very terrible. How much blood did you get at that time? The first time I was bleeding, I was in a 3-dollar health care center. the other ones are for you, and the ones for you are for me they are all for you 45 yuan 45 yuan they are all for you 800 cc blood 45 yuan 800 c c on the neck on the clothes we couldn't even get down on time many people were mixed up many people were mixed up during the process of blood transfusion many people were mixed up they were like "we need to get you some water" "we need to get you some water" "we need to get you some water" I can't stand it anymore Have you ever been in that situation I have to I have to use you for this I'm not alone I'm not a bad person Because I have a road I have a road and a car would you give up if you don't want to? no way we have to do something about it you can't afford to buy some things I have to marry a wife. If the government knows about this, they will take revenge on us. The government will arrest us. It's dangerous. Sometimes we have to stop. I'm also doing it now. I'm also participating in the sale of shoes. I'm not doing it At that time, you think about it, there are two students, two children, all of them are in school, one of them just said that you are this one of us four Pretend to be six meters 一年再缴15点买15点买这个买钱买脚上你又不能收完到这个钱另外这个钱不收啊又不够而且还得往里贴着钱这个想想看卖你不去买这个鞋还在工人消化上用你说这个钱咋收当时在这边的大人小孩来都知道这个这个93年这个不平衡 I sell shoes to increase my weight To increase my weight I don't know if I can wear shoes like this You can't do it like this I don't know if I can wear shoes like this I sell shoes in this square it is the 50th day of the war it is the daily business it was the blood station's campaign the maintenance department The election was a big election, not just an election, but a big election If it wasn't for the country, who would have been able to get the children to vote? Duan Junji cried on the phone, he really cried He was there, he was at home I asked him what was going on, I asked him if he had a friend at home I asked him what was going on 除了現在政府派人20小時監控我一直這些自由權都沒有你要說你政府你有一些上司關數你不能進去作為一個公民都有自由權你不能給每一個人你也有自由權都沒有那你還是啥子中國公民呢真的準備去兩會先先反映情況去啊對是去北京還是去北京啊去北京打算反映些什麼情況呢 We have no evidence to prove that. We want to find another way to prove it. Now, we have only 4 cents a day. Nothing has happened. [SOM DE BATIDAS] [SOM DE SOM DE BATIDAS] You were not well before, right? I was ill for several years I was ill for 30 years My mother was very worried She was very worried She went to the religious places Shanghai, Zhengzhou, and Danchun She ran to the hospital I don't know how much she suffered She was very sick She was taken to the hospital I ran away from home. My father ran away. He was taken to the hospital. He was waiting for the money to be borrowed. He was waiting for the money to be borrowed. Your daughter was sick and spent a lot of money, right? Yes. How much did she spend? About 110,000 yuan. All of them were paid by themselves? Yes, some of them were from relatives and friends. You never told your parents? No. Why? Now, the situation is very bad. When they know, they all feel the pressure. It's hard for parents to be a person His aunt and uncle were in the south The day his aunt went to the south, the local people sent her They sent her to the country to make a good food They all know that if you make a good food, you will get a good disease  I'm going to see my life I'm going to see my life. I don't have any money. I'm going to ask for money I'm begging you, please help me. I'm begging you, please help me. I'm begging you, please help me. What was the situation before she died? What was the situation before? In fact, the situation was that the body was thin It was not good The mouth was full of white stuff It was not edible People were starving Now, how can we live a day with four cents a day? Do you think it's difficult for the family? He was not here in 1998 Until now I have two children The family is still not here. The wife divorced her husband. She couldn't think straight last year. She didn't have a choice. She decided to commit suicide. Now, because of the epidemic, many wives have left their homes. Now we have many relatives who left because of this disease. Some of them were divorced, some were not. He was a nobody for five years, and he didn't come back as a child. After he died last year, he was sent to the waterfront to paint. Gu Weihe came back and left the house. Who did the funeral for him? The funeral was done by his brothers. They paid him. They paid him. Gu Weihe was sent to the house after the funeral.  [speaking in foreign language] 這些醫生為了自己的金錢利益國家的文件一個年發從88年發到93年的7月20號還有95年3月9號一個年都發的文件禁止亂輸入彩血疆這些醫生就是說 I should give you books and shoes, I should eat and buy in the middle. So many women are crazy about the food today. You are not qualified to give food to many children. I'm afraid my daughter will get sick. They have to close the door. The door is gone. They can't go to the hospital. They are just trying to get the benefits of the country. I will tell you The health center is here You are here You are here to defend How do you defend You are defending the country You As a public health doctor in the country You are in charge 5. Shackle, bribe, bribe, use financial aid to manipulate other people's money or use money to rob the money 6. Disturbing the order of the Ministry of Finance, obstructing the national security and the security of the Ministry of Finance 277 (Country officials are required to perform their duties under the rule of law) (3 years of imprisonment, detention, and punishment) (2. 278. To take legal action against the law) (3 years of imprisonment, detention, and punishment) "Consumption of sexual violence in the capital is a very serious consequence" "A big pack of clothes is being thrown away" The moon is full of light The moon is full of darkness My lord, I'm here to kiss you I'm here to tell you that I'm here to prove you wrong I didn't inform you that I was not playing before. No, he didn't tell me that he was not playing. I went to him and he was gone. I was lucky to be able to drag it for a day. I just dragged it for a day. I just said that the next time I would also be a person. I just gave him a box of porridge for half a year. It cost me 200 yuan. I went to find him. She also told me that she can't cure her illness. She can only cure her illness. Where do you work? I work in a nursing hospital. I can't work. I went to the neighborhood. I didn 't get the call. You didn't get the call? No. I didn't get the call. I didn't get the call. You have to go to the news and see what people are doing What do we do next? I can't wait to see if I see anyone I don't see anyone to talk about What can I do? I'm just a beauty now It was supposed to be on the 26th, but today is Tuesday, and we have to go to the meeting. We didn't see anyone when we arrived at the government office, so we were all out. We were very disappointed in this negotiation. I feel that I may continue to visit the room. I may continue to walk on the way to the room. I am a good-looking woman, a good-looking woman. I have a beautiful face. I am a beautiful woman, a beautiful woman. I am a woman. This is me. This is me, too This is me, mom and dad Originally to celebrate the Third Father's Day of the Three Fathers we made a red pot outside I didn't eat anything The government officials came to see me They asked me what I was going to do I just celebrated But I didn't do anything They just let you stay in this room Yes, I stay here every day I send messages on the computer every day when you call me So every day what happens How do these women call me I sent what Xiao Long said Look, 38 women in Henan Province are in hospital Medical school, infected with AIDS, helping children, child labor [ 20 women in Ningling County were infected with the virus. These women not only infected themselves, but also infected their children and husbands. These women went to Ningling County and said that they had a oral document last year. Because of the virus, they were not allowed to leave. This is what Ningling County People's Court serves the people. I have been holding this bowl of women for a long time. The woman is powerful. Let's take a break and get ready. Don't tell her anything else. In the world, there is only mother's embrace The mother's child is like a treasure Stuck in the mother's arms Happiness is like a treasure I can't. The doctor told us that he didn't understand any of the words. He said he didn't understand them. He called me to his office and said, "Your father is a child. He is sick." I was completely out of my mind, I said, "How could we possibly get sick like this?" Then he said, "You lost to Xueling, we lost, we lost in Beijing, we lost in the best hospital in Beijing." This matter indeed involves the use of blood to clean up the city. We also think that the evidence is sufficient. I didn't expect that the secretary would be in such a risk. After this incident, I knew that I would not lose. When was that? August 2002. Why did you go to the judicial process? Because we believe there is no judicial process. I also want to review the Beijing school system. This is not a small problem. I have checked with his father, he is fine. He is so young, he can't be poisoned. This is impossible. We only count the time when he was poisoned. And before the operation, we have checked his HIV. Was it negative? Then his father said yes. Do you have any evidence? Yes. Yes, we have the evidence. It is not adopted at all. I remember clearly, she still has the bill for the social security report. I remember clearly, I said to the patient, "Is this for making money? Why are you a child?" In the end, it is the most powerful evidence for us, because we did not have it before. The media did not report in 2003, but in 2004, the media reported. (I'm not sure if I'm crying or crying) Anyway, now I'm a mother-in-law. I'm a mother-in-law. How long have you been playing baseball? From December 2003 to December 2005. Are you going to continue to fight or give up? I think the country is very innocent It is possible that you have made some mistakes in management and technical failure If you judge like this, I think it cannot be explained to the public You have introduced the judicial injustice Since we have come this far, we may continue to demand a lawsuit Go to the procuratorate to sue 这样有可能这件事有可能就会把立法机关跟监督机关又扯进来那如果就是说我认为如果我们的国家我们的政府我们的司法体系对于整个社会最基本的老百姓的这种维权他都采取这样一种怎么说呢这样一种 If we are not honest, we should be deceived and treated as members of society. I think this is against our country's We are actually suffering for society. If he is not with me, he may be someone else to rely on. Today is you, tomorrow is me, tomorrow is you, and the day after tomorrow may be him. In fact, this person is mature, is a national disaster. I lost in 2002, Beijing, and the best hospital in the country. If we can't be safe, who can guarantee our country's safety? Some kids feel like they can only go out and get angry. But I actually did prepare for it. I didn't think that I would prepare for it. What did you prepare? I said that if the child really can't do it, I would write it on the child and put it on myself. So you can't do this What can I do? She's been in the hospital for a month now, maybe less than a thousand dollars It was not free for more than ten years at that time, even the purchase of medicine was not enough We haven't had a single doctor for 3 years SunYiA has never worn a uniform Never had a single doctor for 4 seasons And this matter Whether it's the hospital or the school, it's all one-to-six-two-five If they are not responsible for this matter What will other people's children do? What will other people who do surgery do? We have already lost. Will there be more things to come? Who can guarantee? So we must continue this thing. We want them to admit this lesson. Admit this mistake. I don't want to infect others, I can infect myself If I have those viruses on me, I will think my son is still alive The sky and the sea are both sad The moon is about to fall Mom and dad have discussed Baby, I want you [Music] I heard that your father passed away. You have been packing books these days. I only had three days of treatment. I couldn't continue for those days. I was afraid that I would suddenly feel a heartache. I had a heart attack and I was bleeding. Yeah. This is the situation Anyway, the world is not too long Give me a copy of the book Ok? On May 9, I participated in the women's conference I went to the book store and did the people's conference There are four other women I want to get the 10,000-message letter from the prison To the bottom I'll give it to the woman who gave it to me. You can't hold it. I can't. I'll give it to Huya. You can give it to Huya. I'll give it to Huya. What? I'll give it to Huya. It's a piece of paper. It's fine. When my mother was being surrounded by the police, I went through that scene on the street. I remembered one thing. I walked from the hospital to the street. I kept walking forward and surrounded by the police. I described that my mother was surrounded by people. She was in the middle of the street. Everyone surrounded her, just her. She vomited blood that day. She vomited blood that day at noon. She was like... She was like over 1 o'clock. 文革为什么批斗您呢?我有三个问题一个问题是我出身不好阶级问题第二个问题那个时候我是做第一马交医的福山科的大夫 抓住我的問題的就是說我一天都掛一百多資工實際上是政府叫我掛的我有那個本事敢掛那麼多人過流產嗎對不對所以我有個罪名殺人不見血的盔子手 I had three hats. One was a local 當時我不想活,我有三次自殺。你不問這段歷史,這是第一個人問這段歷史。你不問這段歷史,你不知道我現在有勇氣來反抗。特別是我復讀以後,兩天以後清醒了,那不是整一個閨女要去幼兒園。 他们三个人在我床边喊妈从那以后我不死了我总有一天把你贪官污吏的事情给你剪一剪我觉得我要死了以后我更想不出来我听说您跟吴仪副总理谈了四个小时没有 两个半两个半小时 您都跟她谈什么了两个问题 一个问题是艾滋病造成了孤儿可怜将来会影响社会动荡第二个问题是加油加油啊这老百姓看不起病他对这个问题特别干嘛 He kept asking me, he said he couldn't find out what happened I said he wanted me to keep asking me, he said he couldn't get it right I said I couldn't answer you very well, I couldn't find out that you were not innocent I told him to go and see He said that we have no time What else did you say? What else did you say? It's these two questions. I didn't say Henan revenge. Why do I have to say revenge Now I'm too low You just said your son was sentenced to three years How old was he when he was 14 He's in jail. You went to see him. Oh, don't listen to me 没法庭所以我同情路也是从这开始的要防罪的话我点头头干了这十年了已经十年过了 I still have to understand a lot of people This is a little bit better for you because you have a woman and a cheongsam Teacher Gao, you even gave me a snake I'm not saying that I don't want to give it to you. I'll buy it in the future. I don't have the ability to go to the market. I have to buy it and let the old man go to the market. I came out in the morning. The market is full. Look at what we did today. It's all over, right? After the market is full, we come back to wash. After washing, I put this bag on the floor. Now it's all stuck. What do you think I wrote? When I was in pain, I cried in my heart and cried to my mother They often said, "Is this your biological mother?" Every time I said it, I cried and cried and cried and cried and cried and cried I love you, but my children always tell me not to think about it. As a mother, you can't do this. As an ordinary person, you should change your perspective. Don't be sad about it. You should tell your leader that you shouldn't have done this. Like I said yesterday, he is very close to the farmers. I don't know why he is so close. When I cook, he will bring the farmers here. They are having dinner here today. He is always like this. I don't know why he is like this. Thank you for watching. I don't know, the second half is almost finished You don't know how good the businessmen are at telling lies It's mainly that, not that he's lying It's that Song Xuan Tao, the owner of the Zhu Ba store, telling lies He said he was lying, I started to say He said that each person sends 8,000 to 10,000 a day I told him to send 10 yuan a person, one person has 120 yuan a year I told him to call me, we both called You came and called the American gentleman You always say something funny After I die, no one can get rid of the smell I'll come back and tell you my plan Okay, let's come back and talk to you I'm not much older than him If I want to die, these things are thrown here Can't find the weak stomach I sent them all to the library in the suburbs Yesterday, a body was packed with 15 bags  六大各家花离海边谁说你懂天青天亮门大闸包边团 One, Two, Three and Four This is the last time We are going to have dinner Five minutes of cooking To clean up the mess the sheep and the sheep still have an open mind! I'm not going to tell you! You'll see, they've all been caught by the king of the county, and they all have a good sense of order, and they've all been caught by the king of the county, all have their own rules. <i>The first day</i> <i>A hundred heroes are here</i> <i>The red and white flag</i> <i>The red and white flag</i> <i>The women are all here</i> <i>The red and white flag</i> This is a large one. This is a big one. This is a big one. I've been playing the guitar for ten years. I remember the mood of the previous day. It was different. It was a very good time. This is my initiative. 这一次记书的话,我是怕我辞掉以后这些书没地方归路书呢存了以后,它没能穿着看你想开始就得问我,我刚打开的时候,它背着一本书能看来 (singing in Chinese) (singing) I'm sorry. You're so cute! You're so cute! Let's go home and ask Can can can Clean up To my When I was in the second grade, it was the most difficult year in our family. My mother was sick, and my father came back to cure my mother. Almost all the money in the family was spent. When my teacher teaches me for my tuition fee every day, I always tell him that my family is really poor. When my mother passed away, I was ten years old. My father went back to work and I learned to cook at home. When dad came home from work, he saw that I had finished cooking. I was very happy. He said, "Hualing, although you didn't do very well, but dad knows you are very sensible. You want to help dad do something." I have improved since I cooked. I think I can cook for my father in the future. I am so happy.是我在意 Because of the Do you know who buried here? My sister She died at the age of nine and a half How old are you? Four years old Put it here Give him a head Ok? It's ok, you can kneel down One head Mom, don't cry Mom, I'm sorry. Mom, I'm sorry. I'm sorry Don't cry mom don't cry brother mom wrong You are my good daughter I am too busy I have many children who are infected with this disease I have many children and women who are infected with this disease I ran to Beijing every day I have been fighting this lawsuit for a day Can you hear me, my child? You're so obedient You're not sick anymore How nice it is There are many children Eight children have been infected with this disease They are still not cured Think about it I'm looking for a lot of places to find medicine for children Your children are being punished How dare your children get these uneducated doctors Many children can't find medicine I've been running around all this time I'm leaving. I'll be in Beijing in a few days. I'll take care of this. I'll come back to see you. I'll come back to see you. Be good. Be good over there. I'll give you a lot of money. Buy whatever you want. You can eat snacks. I like to wear new clothes You bought it and finished it Mom is doing it for you Listen to me What are you doing? Mom is crying Mom, you are really not a child Mom, you are really not a child  My grandma had been living here for over 60 years. She was a gardener. She was a farmer. Her farm was destroyed. The law was changed. The law was changed. All of them are not real. I'm going to buy the real one myself His mother didn't learn it either Mom, you're going to do it yourself I had a fever. My mom went to the hospital to get a shot. My mom went to Qiyang City. It was winter. My mom went to Qiyang City to look for her dad. She didn't come back. My mom took the shot and gave me a shot. This is a heart operation. This child is two and a halftime. What about the kid today? The kid today is 13 years old. This year, the one who came over. Okay. What day is it? It's a heart attack. This child is two and a half years old. What about the child today? Today's child is already thirteen. The one who came today. I didn't buy shoes before, I just bought shoes from my husband in 1995 I never bought shoes before, I just bought shoes when I was a kid When I went to the police station, the police officers caught me and they took me away. I was afraid I would be beaten up. I was beaten up and I was tied up in the back of a car. I can't take it out now I can't take it out now I was afraid of the long and thick shoes It's so long and so wide Two bags This pillow is so big It's as long as a little piece of wood Let you move this shoe out The bag was very long and heavy. The bag was made of 800 cc, and the price of the bag was very high. The bag was very heavy. I heard that she was a bloodthirsty woman, so I brought her blood. I said I didn't want her. I said I didn't want her. Her mother-in-law, her two sons, two daughters-in-law, and two daughters-in-law were all infected. The old lady was also infected, but she didn't say anything. She was a widow. She had four daughters, three daughters, and two daughters. She didn't dare to say anything. You don't tell him what to do. Both adults and children are the same. The old girl is the same as the old man. What should I do? I can't leave my wife. I can't leave my wife.   They were afraid that the epidemic would spread too much They didn't dare to live in our village The office they established in our village is almost as far as Yihua Lake It's more than 25 feet It costs more than 40,000 yuan In the future, they will be able to live in this house How does he work? Does he have to enter the village? He didn't enter the village How does he investigate and work? 那自治中 自治中洋式 自治中姓式他们 我们全都没人了他们全都没有他们在这 在我们这个现在盖的这个公寓里面 他不该再住一个月不来一次来来一次就是盖了两三年又走了又会生了省里的干部他一个月不能在这住三年 好 开车 I'm going to drink some rice wine Thank you, dad. What's your name? Wang Wenlin. Do you remember what he said to you? No. Do you remember what he looked like? No. He doesn't remember. How old are you when he died? It's waterless Do you remember which room dad lived in this room? He lived in that room. Which room? This one. I'll go with you. Tell me where it is. This is where your dad lives well Your mother also lives here Where do you live I don't know You live here, too I'm not going to put it on oh I don't know I'm talking about clothes You let him sleep at night I'm going to put it on I'm not going to put it on How many people have died in this family? Four people and a girl Six people Five people in the last four just one small face The boss is also dead My wife is sick, I don't know what to do I was scared and I was scared I was scared and I was scared The family is gone Your children are gone How many pills do you take every time Take one, take half a day Take half a day, take half a day, take two times a day How many pills do you take every time This is the one. Where did you get this? I bought this. It's not free? I bought it. How much is it? 530 yuan. How can you buy medicine for free? I bought it for 15 yuan. I bought it for 2 yuan. I bought it for 1 yuan. Two times. Two times. Two times. How long does it take to buy this bottle of medicine? Two months. The government has treated me well. They came to the county. They came to the county. They came to the county. They came to see me. If it wasn't for the government, I wouldn't have been able to do this. It's obvious that I don't have enough material for medicine. I don't have enough material to make money. I don 't spend much money. I don't have enough money to buy food. I only rely on the government to do so. The road to I forgot I can't use it, I'm not using it The county government has nothing to do with our two cancer patients I want to have one, one, one, one. I won't have it, either The problem is the number one *they are all relatives I have been fighting with a soldier for seven or ten days, but he is not satisfied. The original volunteer was... He was a volunteer for the family, not for the army. He was not a volunteer for the army, but for the health service. they are all here for the money they are not here for the money it was here how many people are here every day? hundreds of people people from both sides are here This house is pretty big It's the bloodstain that we opened in our county. It's the one that we opened in our county The head is still the dean in our county It's him who moved here to pick up the shoes here We don't check any disease or infection. We only pay 5 yuan for the bill. Then we can collect the bill. How many beds are there? There are more than 40 beds. How many beds are there in a small house? There are 3 or 4 beds per bed. The family of the dead is everywhere, from south to north. Some are dead, some are alive. Almost every family on the road is dead. Let me see me Our village is a rural area. How many villages are there? There are more than 3,000 villages in total. More than 200 people have died. Now there are nearly 400 people infected. From which year to which year? From 2000 to now, more than 200 people have died. Many people are not suffering from the disease of self-indulgence. They have no money to buy medicine. In this case, they can't stand it anymore. They have to take medicine. They take medicine for the old disease. Taking medicine is very... very fast. After a few days, we lost our parents. Sometimes, they were in the middle of the night, and they couldn't find their family. They had doubts about it. We have 36 children, and I can't really explain why. I bought a house for my daughter. It is a single year. My mother-in-law is a doctor. I have two sons who are in school now. They need money. I have to pay my tuition. They are still in the business. I am a teacher. I don't know. I am a teacher. How old were you when you went out to work? 13 years old How did you get out when you were so young Because my mom was in a serious condition at that time I didn't want to go to work either. When I left, my mom wasn't home. She went to the hospital. What was the situation after you left? Because at that time, I didn't know anything there. I was still learning. At first, they didn't pay me. I worked for two months They said that the salary will be paid at the end of the year So that's it Your mother said you hurt your hand How did you hurt your hand? I couldn't hold on to it I fell asleep when I was working What was the situation at that time? I was too tired to work. I didn't know how to work. I was too tired to work How did you come back? My father told me that I didn't go to school. He asked me to come back You worked for a year. How much did you earn? They gave me 600 yuan when I came back. It's a heavy punishment. Because it's a five-on-one process. There is a way to the natural water. How old were you when you went out to work? 13 years old. How did you run when you were so young Well, because my mom was in a serious situation at that time I didn't want to go to work either. When I left, my mom wasn't home. She went to the hospital. What was the situation after you left? Because at that time, I didn't know anything there. I was still learning. At first, they didn't pay me. I've been working here for two months. I haven't even had a shop in the past. I've been visiting the shops. My husband went to visit the shops in Shanghai. He paid me 100 yuan for the shop. My husband sold it for 100 yuan. I'm going to eat a hot dog. That's why you said you wanted to come here at the end of the year I don't know what's going on You're in the government's office You see This old man wants to come here for a long time, but some dare not come. I contacted them to find some places to go to the police station. We were secretly brought to the police station by the police. We were secretly taken to several places and interviewed. I secretly sent them in. That's how it was. If the government knew, "When are you going to come to your house to record?" If you come to the city, they would come to me to talk. This is still the case of the past two years? Yes, it's the same thing. It's still the same thing. Our government keeps talking to me. Zhang Guofu went to Beijing to get a checkup. Zhang Ke was there to get some patients. When he went to Beijing, he was very upset because the checkup didn't allow him to stay in the hospital. He said he would stay here and bring the children home no matter how much money I spent. He took a picture there. He died not long after taking the picture. I once had a chance to meet with a medical company in Zhilin, and I saw the 300-hoc Glands-Weikang carbon-fiber products produced by the IHV patients. We were surprised to see that they were selling them at a price that should not have been sold. 不应该买为什么不应该买因为这个都是穿球迹引的钱买的因为中国食品有品兼免贵的管理局还没有受全中国各大主要公司生产在中国展类也还没有放牌这是进口药对 非卖品在中国拉米福定是比较咸的2005年嘛 我就从中华人民共和国卫生部集公司市场好样 I asked them why they didn't send us reports to the health department. We also have the It's free. So someone is selling this medicine here? Yes. They can't find it in the market. They sell it in the market. They sell it in the market. How much does it cost? 1200 RMB. How much does it cost to sell it to the outside world The retail price is 1350. The reporter came to interview us, but we didn't know anything about the situation inside The warehouse is out of control. You know, you have to go to your circle, you don't know, he doesn't come, he doesn't wait You came and you broke it, you came and you broke it, you came and you broke it, you came and you broke it, you came and went We have been in the city since my mother left us. There are over 800,000 people in our village, which is not small. You should be careful. Don't be afraid of the security. I have been to many families. We have some leaders and cadres who want to help us with the case They can help the patients They can help us understand the situation But we have to be careful Especially in our home We won't let you move We won't let you come in We won't let you sit at home We won't let you talk We won't let you close the door They all lost their lives, they couldn't find anything to eat They were all so skinny They were all so skinny A 13-year-old boy helped me to work in the field. During the harvest, he drove a farm tricycle to help me. He didn't let his dad use the tricycle. He called me and said he was looking for me at home. He said his father was not working. How old were you when you died? I was over 30 years old when I died. He was in bed at midnight. His husband was thirsty and couldn't stand it. He was lying in bed. He took a rope to the side of the room. He fell asleep. His family couldn't find him. Tianming's family couldn't find him on the bed. He was killed in the yard In 2002, a line of trees was sold on our land It costed more than 2000 yuan It was not treated for a month I couldn't eat for days He kept on persuading me to eat I don't have a family like yours. If you were alive, I would have been able to see you. My only wish is to see you for the first year. If you weren't here, I would have been able to see you. He often says that. I want to encourage him to keep living. I want to encourage him to keep living. I want to encourage him to keep living. He's always running. All the things are now in my heart It's okay now I handle all the household affairs. Other villages are also affected. They need to do their jobs. I have to call them and ask them to come over. Some people come to call them and ask them to come over. They often run. For the patients? For the patients. They are all affected by the virus. They run. The children are very sick. There is no one to take care of them. There is no one to take care of the children. The children are very ill. I took care of them and took care of them. I stayed there for a day It was around 10 o'clock I went back to the village I didn't understand what it meant I just didn 't know where the village was I didn't know he went to Beijing I didn't know that he went to Beijing He went to Beijing this time He didn't know what happened I left him behind How did they know he was left behind? I have a notice from the head of the village I have a detention certificate Send the detention certificate to my home I just said that there is a lot of people on the street The police said it was not safe He stopped me and I stood at the door He was waiting for me, he came back and came to eat There was a nurse outside and a nurse came in He said I was waiting for him to arrive He said that everything was healthy He said that I would come back and see him later I have seen my life, you see, I am alive The police caught him and I was caught I went to the police station to ask the police officer The police officer's secretary is a foreign official I asked him who was the one who did the job Who is the one who took the job? He said he was 49 years old He came out and he called Tian Miao Tian Miao Tian, your hometown, Xinglajiao You said you helped the police to get the job The police have already been appointed Is it legal for me to go to Beijing? I violated the rules of the government If the law is not in place, we will not go to the room I went to the Weishengmou It's been more than ten years Ten years I went to the gate of the Weishengmou I just stood there Weishengmou came out again He made a decision Can you go He said he would go and talk to him The county leaders and the local officials including the police, the trade union, the county committee and the villagers all went to the village to get 50-60 households He said, you have to pay 10,000 yuan per kilo and you have to pay 10.000 yuan per kilo and I will give you some evidence He said you have a video tape, I have a video tape, you can show me That's five He said, let's go home and make a face He said he wouldn't come tomorrow The people are afraid that the people will be afraid of the people Why don't you let the people go? I will come back He took me to the police I was called Tian Miao by the police. They asked me who was in charge. I said it was the government. They said I was not allowed to go to Beijing. I said I was not allowed to go. They asked me how many times I had been to the county government. I asked him how many times he came to the press. He said he had never been to the city or the town. I said, "I'm going to Beijing. You can go to Beijing. If you don't go, you'll get into trouble." I said, "You're going to get me into trouble." "What trouble? I'm far away." He said, "Don't say that. He's the leader. I'm not asking you. Don't send me a note. I'll come back in May or February." Why didn't you sign the document? You don't need to tell me. I can only tell you. He is a registered patient. How much is your hospital's registration fee? How much is your hospital's registration fee? Of course, when I went to the city hall, I went to the city hall to see the doctor. And when I was filming, I drove my car to the city hall. I took him to the Central Hospital. I hung up on him. I hung up on him. I hung up on him. I asked him to give me some money I said, "You have money? You can read it for me I said, "What? I have money I don't recognize those words He said, "I'll read it for you" He said, "You're talking nonsense, right?" He said, "Don't talk nonsense" That's all he said He said, "He's warning you Don't go to the room again" I said that the hospital can't be in the room anymore He said, "You can go ahead, go ahead" He said, "I want to go ahead, too" "Go ahead, you can't wait for me to go to the room" In the hospital, 70 or 80 people are all vaccinated After the infection, you can't take a few The hospital, the hospital can't take a few The hospital can't take a few people You can't take the real criminal You can't take the real criminal, the small criminal If I don't count the money, people will be dead We will go back to the city to borrow money And my son will be beaten up I will be in the city for 18 months Now we have 64 adults Four of them are dead 60 of them are in the city 10 children 20 are dead I asked him to raise sheep every day, and he said he was worried He said, "You just raise sheep, and you can only carry 13 people in the county This is 60 or 70 dogs, and we only have 13 people What can I get him money for? The people who don't have skin I said I wouldn't carry him He said he carried Henan, Henan didn't carry him Why did he do it? That's what he did  But the medical problem is related to medical care. If the children are not treated in a single unit, I have a special treatment that is better than them. Now they can have it. But the treatment costs are very high. I'm not sure. This question should be the answer. For example... When did you get married? October. October? How did you two meet? We met online. I'm going to the hospital. Did you tell your parents? I told them. Did they say anything? They agreed. Will they come? My dad will come. Your dad will come here? Yes. It's okay. Then you call him a worker. How can you call him? I'm done with work. I'll come over and find it. Find a temporary job. Find a temporary job. I still have to do business. You are really capable. What capable Can you get used to it? Can you get used to it? Nothing I'm angry Look at Duanjun I haven't seen him for a day Look at Duanjun He's pretty good His temper is a bit too hot His temper is not good Duanjun, look at Li I think it's good for people. It's gentle. The garlic... The garlic is the best. Because there is no garlic, only a knife. The machine has a machine. The machine has a machine. It can make garlic.  You are not afraid of the disease? No need to be afraid. Because the AIDS virus does not spread through life. It spreads through those three patterns. Your hand is directly affected by these conditions, you are not afraid? I am not afraid. I often have skin clots with patients. You are not afraid of infection? No, I have no wounds on my body, and I won't be infected if I have no wounds on my body. Thank you for watching! There are partners Your wife seems to be right that is that Pan Pan Lidong I don't know. After eating, sometimes I feel sick. Is it fake medicine? Yes. What did you find out? Find out When they made it from the inside, they said you can't find it. That medicine has a powder in it. There's powder when you take it out. I still have it now. How did he go? At that time, they were close to three yuan a day. We sold 16 yuan. You said you went to the National Pharmaceutical Bureau to report. Report. Any results? I went to Beijing the day before yesterday. Their results are that they haven't made it yet. I have too few medicines. He wants to do it one by one. But I put it in. I will accept it Is your car coming back? Yes Is it slow? I'm sorry It's not slow I said, "I don't want to come. You can see that he is here. He has a bad temper. I don't want to come." I said, "I have been here for a year. I don't want to come." My mom called me and said that my dad was sick and couldn't move. She wanted to go home. She didn't want us to get married. Then I didn't sleep with Duan Jun and cried all night At first my dad didn't know I was sick I just didn't want him to worry Then he was particularly different Because I came here He said it was too far It's poor here and there's no money And Duan Jun didn't even have a place to live And then later I said I had no choice, so I told my dad the truth. But I didn't tell him that the army was there. He asked me, "If the army is there, I won't dislike you." I said, "It's okay." I said, "We're fine." I knew it from the first day that Brother Xi came out Because his neighbor called me I called Sun Yiran Asked Sun Yiran to inquire This is a meeting If I don't let Brother Xi out before the meeting They will have a game with him The anti-government organization is ready to give a big meeting What's wrong with him? Yes Yes Oh, you don't let him see his short hair This is a big one. Look at you. Look at you. You know what? He's on his face That face is also the face of China is not a big thing to wear all shoes small white less small white less not wear shoes small white Pull the belly You said you started in 2001 How many bags are counted in 2001 Counting twice It seems to count four bags Do y ou know how much you count once Two small bags Two bags How long does it take to pick up If it will be picked up later It's been a long time It's beginning It's starting to get better Small [Thank you] How big is the biggest bed? The biggest, these two are all in the same room How big? They can prove the size of the bed Oh, the bed The government now can buy shoes and stock them Yes, stock shoes Now they are all in the corner Stock shoes are not called shoes How many have you collected now? More than 30 I'm going to collect 100 100 is easy to find I don't want to count Counting 100 is easy to find The problem is that Li Xi Ge is here I'll send you 10 to 8 days later I'll give you my phone number We have it too You have a lot of books There is a children's running station Yes Running station, public park We have it all We have everything And food Food We have everything We have evidence Some people have evidence We have evidence People have evidence Mainly people's photos I told my brother Li Xi I said you took your photos I took it He took a lot of materials But I have to go. I have to go to the temple. You go back and help.  If it wasn't for this heart, it would have been a heart attack or a heart attack or a heart attack Anyway, in the plan, he said you have three years of life, you can only live three years, but in three years, you're still in the scene, you're still in the game You can change your salary every night. You can tell them. Or you can tell them to wait at home. I want to be a nurse. You want to be a nurse? You can go to school. When you grow up, you can be a doctor. I don't want to go to the hospital. I can't help it. I used to cry a lot. I have no one to give me a help. You have to go to the hospital. I don't want to go to the hospital. I didn't give him any treatment. I don't have any. I don't want to see him suffer. I don't have a mother. I am very sorry. I am also very tired. I have been working for five years. I have been running all day and I have not been able to solve it. There are also some good people in the world. He helped us I can't pay rent I can work outside I can cook I want to live without a child I can't I can't let my family be a meal I can't have a child Only this woman I can't I want to Why did you grow up? Why Don't help others. Don't treat others. Don't ask for money. Don't ask for money? Is it because we have spent all the money? (groaning) Sometimes the child said, "Mom, I don't know what you did, you can teach me to treat this disease." I said, "I didn't do anything." I always get hurt by my wife. I'm tied up. I didn't do anything wrong. I don't know if he has such a disease. I've never had a shot since I was a child I don't know if he has this disease It's okay. He finally told me Mom, I don't blame you for my illness I'm the one who's holding your hand I can't find you in there It's really hard to find you in here You should go back to the camp He is now in the heart of the White House. There is no problem in the heart, he is in the heart. This is not good, you can't be good. It's time to go. Don't be sad, let's go. The police are investigating the incident. The police are not checking the situation. They are not checking the situation. The family in our village is in trouble. How can they do that? They are waiting for death. They are waiting for death. You saw the scene. You didn't film it. You saw the scene. [The End] Your face is like a mud, Full of smell and wind. Are your mother a thief? Your eyes are like a thorn. I never thought of the news of the car. I just forgot about a city. Are you a thief? 聽我切磚像一年的雪碑還不能把它吹個流星就像在一幅曼谷的棕你是不是有懂我的母親最喜歡兒女等見的鮮花當下一天的桃樓享受一個短暫的溫馨然而現在那顆 大宗永远卖不出群羊柔弱的生命怎能抗得过宝马的铁群你比他日无助比他卖地生早前一样的眼笑蕴散 This is the house tower Later, the Civil Affairs Bureau built this house, right? I don't have any money to prepare now If my child is a victim, I will never get it from the hospital I can't say that now that the people are in the air I will not let go of the body I will kill myself What was that? I shouldn't have seen you I'm afraid it's the result You know what? I don't want this result You don't see him You can see him See you in the morning How many people in our village are sick with this disease How many people are sick with this disease It's also a house. It's also a house. It's also a house. It's also a house I just sold it out. That's the last time I sold it. I don't know when it was It's been more than 20 years When did aunt come back Yesterday Dad! Go go go go Go go go (The I was in the same room with him. You were in the same room on the 7th? Yes. You were in the same room? Yes. In the same room? Yes. You three were sleeping together? Yes. How many times did they ask you? I asked him once in the afternoon On the 19th? Yes, once I asked him if he had eaten anything I didn't ask him at that time The next day He kicked me out of the house He did it once? Yes I was born on the 27th. I signed up on the 27th. I was born on the day. I see a few call his name. He just said a few words. I went to Hainan to call me out. He said. He didn't say why he was a criminal. No. I have a lot of evidence in the hospital. There is evidence. There is evidence. - You have a blood test? - Yes. I have one. Did you ask for a divorce? He didn't ask for a divorce. He said it was a home visit, not a divorce. He said he didn't know. I'll go. Don't go.   The What did he say? He said, "Don't do this." He said, "The class is a little bit low." He said, "We don't go home in this world. We don't go home in our home town." Where do you go home? He said, "Now it's the time to go to the police and the leadership to study." He said that this is not the skin of the person who gave you this This is not the thing we gather to fight the family What kind of boss? He doesn't know The god of god He didn't say He now belongs to a part of the family Let him meet No Let him send the grapes What's the matter I don't want to go The baby is out Only seven left The baby will die in the prison Do you know? Only three little ducks and one big duck Big duck is to feed mom or dad? To feed mom I heard Feng Ying say that the police told her He said, "I gave you 10,000 yuan and you didn't go to the Internet" What did the wife say? What did the wife say? She said, "Don't talk about money with me now" The wife said this and Feng Ying came out and said this to me What do you think? I think you mean a few lives It's not like you can solve the problem with 10,000 or 20,000 You write on you also have a law also through this law correct you change change to give to who change to give you again So when you get the government, you have to get it You can write it, but you can't say it. You can write it according to the legal system of the civil and civil society You don't say you're the government You're not the government now. He doesn't want to solve the problem. He's afraid you're online. He's this problem I was in the police station yesterday, and a man took a question. The upper body was a bodyguard, and it was handed over to the police station in Ningling. Beijing's police station is not on the Internet, and there are about 30 people who are available. Beijing's upper body was provided to the police station in Ningling. They said this night that they were going to fight the (singing) He can tell you, he's here now Ok, come back later, welcome I'll come back later I'm in a hurry, I think you have to come back before 12 It's impossible not to come back before 12 Take our... Take our... I know I am a registered resident of the hospital, I also go to the hospital Until the first year of June, June 2003, the first time the judgement came down, I won I won the vote and I took it back myself The judgement is not my year, how much I spent, how much the hospital spent, it's a year My husband said, "You die, you really die, I have nothing to show you." I haven't eaten or drank for three days. From 2005 to now, I am not allowed to play. My husband has always known that I am not allowed to play the game. A bunch of things moved my heart. My heart moved to the sound. I can still hear the sound of my heart when the New Year comes. I don't want to see it. They don 't allow me to be a judge. They are all old people. I am dead. I can't live on. I have no ability to see. I have no right to see. Remember to call me. What should I do with a case like mine? What should I have done myself? The Ministry of Health knew about the high number of blood sugar and liver cancer products in the mid-90s. And the high number of blood sugar and liver cancer products in the post-doctoral period. So, regarding the problem of blood sugar, until today, the Ministry of Health has not issued a notice to the people of the country saying that in the coming years, if there is any blood sugar or blood cancer product,  "What did you do with the money you have?" I think what he said is right. As a victim of a school-based infection, when Li Qige was talking at the door of the Ministry of Health, he was facing a criminal of the country. We have this letter, this material, and some other materials. We call for the release of these women, these women who are detained, who are in the form of detention. If you agree, we suggest that you can write to the Minister of Health every day. (music) They have a letter for everyone here, right? If you are willing to sign, just leave it. If you don't sign, you can sign.  年容子弟大雪入枝青成熟來自全會的衣裝寫生不知悲與喜或遮蓋高貴的人依然笑揚 The two of them are two. Each of them suddenly went out My heart My heart My heart My heart I'm tired of my mother and my father You're all gone one by one I'm tired of my mother I'm tired of my family [Sobbing]  (歌詞) 安多佛路邊路著地 著路邊一帶離 摩訶佛地撒脫撒脫撒脫 摩奈摩奈摩佩摩佩離脫離 現在我再帶大家把今天一起這樣的一個佛園 回向給進虛風遍法界的眾生 回向給本地土地龍神 還有個人的父母 司長 冤親債主歷代陣亡將士無忌孤魂迴向給世界和平國泰民安風調雨順刀兵不起願所有的人民平安   (音樂) 半時點到半個來半個夜生活  (音樂)