The entire petrodollar system is supposedly once 
again under threat now that Iran floated asking  
tankers passing through the Strait of Hormuz 
to pay in Chinese yuan rather than in dollars.  
There's just one tiny problem, though. If you 
just look at the numbers, the entire idea of  
the petro dollar system quickly reveals itself as 
the biggest myth in geopolitics. That being said,  
as with any good myth, there are, of course, some 
elements of truth to it. For example, it is true  
that in the summer of 1974, the US under Nixon 
and Saudi Arabia under King Faisal, signed one  
of the most economically and geopolitically 
relevant agreements of the 20th century,  
which saw the establishment of a so-called 
US-Saudi joint commission on economic cooperation.  
However, for a long time, the details of that 
agreement were a secret, which is probably how  
we ended up with the myth of the establishment of 
the petrodollar system in the first place. And it  
roughly goes like this: In 1971, Nixon abandoned 
the gold standard, creating significant US dollar  
volatility and inflation in the United States. 
Then in 1973, the US was hit by a big oil crisis,  
which was caused primarily by Saudi Arabia and on 
other Arab nations that cut supply in general and  
embargoed oil to any nation who supported Israel 
in their war against Syria and Egypt. And as you  
can see here, that caused a massive spike in 
oil prices, fuel shortages in the US, and it  
significantly raised inflation. Then we get to our 
famous agreement. In 1974, the US and Saudi Arabia  
signed it, which stated that from the Saudi side, 
they would only sell in US dollars. Number one.  
And then point number two, they would invest those 
dollars into the United States itself, and this  
would be called recycling petro dollars ,and these 
were then recycled into US banks and treasuries.  
But of course, this would not be for free. On the 
other hand, the US would defend Saudi Arabia and  
help them to get started economically. 1974 was 
the start of the petrodollar system. The US dollar  
was now backed by oil and this cemented the US 
dollar's status as the unquestioned global reserve  
currency. The importance of the petrodollar could 
then also explain that every time a nation like  
Iran or Iraq or Venezuela announced that they 
would start selling oil in another currency,  
the US would put a stop to this because of course 
this undermined the fundamental power of the US  
dollar. Very convincing sounding story. And while 
the story about the founding of the petrodollar  
system is at least a little bit closer to the 
truth than the modern-day petrodollar story,  
the fundamentals underlying it are still a big fat 
myth. And how do we know? Well, luckily for us,  
Bloomberg News requested the release of the 
exact details of the US-Saudi 1974 deal in  
2016 under the US Freedom of Information Law. So, 
what does it say? Well, here are the previously  
confidential documents detailing how the Nixon 
administration believed that this deal would  
work and why it would help America. It says "the 
commission was established on the heels of the  
Arab oil embargo and price increases. The embargo 
emphasized that closer US Arab ties were needed.  
The oil price increases gave Saudi Arabia 
a substantial amount of petrodollars which  
could be used for development purposes." So, two 
things stand out to me. Focus on price increases,  
and then number two, we already have a mention 
of petrodollars here. So, petrodollars themselves  
are not a myth. Continuing the commission was 
perceived as an important mechanism for number  
one, fostering closer political ties between 
the two countries through economic cooperation,  
assisting Saudi industrialization and 
development, while there we have it,  
recycling petrodollars. So recycling petrodollars 
is absolutely in there. And then number three,  
facilitating the flow to Saudi Arabia of American 
goods, services, and technology. And then finally,  
it says, "In helping the Saudis to find a way to 
invest their large and growing financial reserves,  
we will give them added incentives to continue 
to produce oil in the quantity needed to meet  
world demand. And this is crucial: "at a 
stable and hopefully lower price levels." So,  
takeaway number one, what really stood out 
to me, no mention at all whatsoever in these  
documents of the Saudis committing to pricing oil 
in US dollars or the US finding this important.  
It was not important. And this is actually backed 
up by other evidence presented by the Yaw Asamoah  
Substack which found that the Saudis actually kept 
accepting British pounds for oil for quite a while  
after the 1974 agreement, which we now have seen 
is not surprising given that it was not part of  
that agreement. So in summary, what is myth and 
what is reality when it comes to the establishment  
of the petrodollar system? Well, first, let's 
look at what the US gives according to the myth:  
economic development and security. And according 
to reality, yeah, that's also the case. But then  
here are the major differences Saudi gives. Well, 
recycling petrodollars and reducing borrowing  
costs potentially for the US. Yeah, that was 
definitely in there. But what was absolutely  
not in there is US dollar transaction exclusivity 
not the case. The thing that was in there clearly  
a couple of times was oil price stability. And 
this is crucial because it changes the story about  
the US motivation for this agreement completely. 
The myth is: it was about supporting the dominance  
of the dollar. Not true at all. What matters is 
oil price stability. And this will honestly make  
a lot of sense once we start looking at the other 
supporting data. The US did not need to make some  
fancy deal for people to price their oil exports 
exclusively in US dollars. The South American  
copper men were already invoicing their exports in 
dollars. The European industrialists, the Japanese  
industrialists, all of them invoiced their 
exports in dollars mostly already. And everyone  
did it because by 1974, the dollar was already the 
undisputed global reserve currency. It's actually  
more likely that this dominance had been cemented 
by something called eurodollars rather than by  
petrodollars. But if you want to learn more about 
that, I have to refer you to potentially the best  
economics course that I've ever taken. And that 
is now available via our advertising sponsor,  
Coursera. That's right. My favorite course 
available via Coursera Plus is one I've completed  
myself many years ago, The Economics of Money 
and Banking by Columbia professor Perry Mehrling.  
And for people who watched my channel for a long 
time, well, they know I think that the only way to  
really understand money is through balance sheets. 
And well, this Coursera course is all about that  
and really helped me out understand that as well. 
But honestly, there's much more here. My other  
top two recommendations are courses by one of my 
favorite behavioral economists, and his name is  
Professor Robbert Shiller from Yale. These courses 
are financial markets and narrative economics. And  
honestly, that's just the beginning. Coursera 
has well over 10,000 courses from world-class  
university professors. And on top of that, if you 
want to learn genuinely useful skills for work,  
they have state-of-the-art courses by very 
prestigious partners like Google, IBM, Microsoft,  
and Meta. So, if you want to truly dive into the 
real reason that the dollar is so dominant and how  
it works, go subscribe to Coursera Plus and sign 
up for my recommended courses in the top comment  
below or in the description of this video. But 
for now, for this video about why the petrodollar  
system is the biggest myth in geopolitics, it's 
enough to know that the establishment of the  
Eurodollar market had helped create the following 
situation around the time of the petrodollar deal.  
Around 1976, we can see that the US as part of 
official central bank reserves, the US dollar  
was absolutely dominating all other currencies, 
including the British pound. So the US dollar was  
already very much the dominant reserve currency. 
And the second part of the puzzle is that if we  
look at the main reserve asset, US treasuries 
in the 1980s when it was actually at its peak,  
the Saudis had been buying a lot of them and also 
the other Gulf countries. If we then look at US  
dollar treasuries, we can see that the Saudis and 
other Gulf countries really only held a very very  
very very small part of treasuries. So they were 
actually not that important holders of US debt.  
So crucially, the US dollar did not need the oil 
exporters. It was actually the other way around.  
The oil exporters needed the US dollar because US 
financial markets were the only financial markets  
in the world that were easily able to absorb the 
billions and billions that the Gulf countries  
were earning from oil. In other words, having 
only this tiny tiny fraction of US treasuries,  
that is great news if you are a Saudi central 
banker or treasurer because it means that if you  
get into trouble and you need to sell all of these 
dollars to wage a war or something like that,  
then you can just sell it all and the price of 
the asset will not drop at all. On the other hand,  
had you invested in British government debt, you 
may have caused a massive British government debt  
crisis if there was a crisis in the Gulf and you 
had to sell all of it. So yes, the 1974 US-Saudi  
agreement changed the world of geopolitics by 
making the US the protector of the Gulf States and  
the 1974 agreement also changed the global economy 
because it led to lower and more stable oil prices  
than would otherwise have been the case. So, 
talking about oil-producing countries accepting  
other currencies than the dollar being a threat 
to the reserve currency status of the US dollar,  
that actually from the beginning on was always 
simply wrong. But today it's even more ridiculous  
than ever for two big reasons. Reason number 
one, oil is actually far less important in our  
economies today than it was in the 1970s. For 
example, at the height of the 1979 oil crisis,  
oil transactions accounted for about 13 
to 15% of the American economy. But today,  
that's only about 5 to 7% of US GDP. The reasons 
are simply that our economies got way more  
efficient about using oil. For example, cars today 
use roughly half the amount of petrol per mile or  
kilometer as they did in 1975. Also, if we look 
internationally, we can see that these bars here  
represent so-called current account surpluses 
or trade surpluses by major oil producers,  
earning them dollars. And they used to be very 
significant. Absolutely. But today we can see  
that these are just absolutely dwarfed by the 
East Asian manufacturing surpluses. These are  
far more important sources of dollar demand today. 
Next, reason number two, the petrodollar myth is  
even more ridiculous than ever today. Have a look 
at this incredibly important chart. And what you  
see here are, in the blue line, US energy imports 
and US energy exports in orange. And of course,  
there used to always be a massive, massive 
difference. The US was the biggest oil importer  
in the world. But since 2020, that situation has 
changed. The US is now a net oil exporter. So even  
if at some point it was nice for the US to have 
petrodollars be invested back into the US and then  
they could potentially then use them to continue 
importing all of that oil, that story today is  
absolutely no longer true. But okay, this oil 
deficit was still the case for decades. So maybe  
the US used petrodollar recycling to finance their 
imports for decades and now the oil-exporting Gulf  
countries own much more of US debt than they did 
in 1980. I thought this was fairly plausible. A  
lot can happen in 40 years, after all. And we 
know that the Gulf countries' wealth funds are  
absolutely massive. They have trillions in US 
debt and equities. That's absolutely true. And,  
for my video on the Gulf economies, for example, 
I calculated that they can survive a complete  
blockade for years because of how insanely 
rich they are, and that's truly unique across  
global economies. So, does the US depend on Gulf 
petrodollars that were invested between the 1980s  
to 2020? When it comes to treasuries, the answer 
is absolutely clearly: no. That's not the case.  
Saudi Arabia, the biggest oil exporter, is all the 
way down the list, behind so many economies that  
we barely talk about in geopolitics. Um, India, 
Taiwan, Ireland, Luxembourg, Belgium, the United  
Kingdom, and Japan, they all have far far higher 
holdings of US debt. But okay, quite famously,  
the Saudis have switched to equities. So, let's 
have a look at equities. The stock market as well.  
The Gulf countries are massive investors there, 
for sure. But US stock markets are worth $72  
trillion US dollars, and if we look at the wealth 
of all wealth funds and central banks in the Gulf,  
we get about $4 trillion combined. And not all 
of that has been invested in stocks. It's been  
estimated that they combined about 1% of the 
US stock market. So while petrodollar recycling  
still happens, it's real. The US clearly does not 
need petrodollars, the petro states simply have  
no better place to store their wealth than the 
gigantic US markets. And just as the final icing  
on the cake to disprove once and for oil that 
the petro dollar is still a thing. The blue bar  
over here is the size of the entire oil market in 
2025, which was about $3 trillion. That's a lot.  
Absolutely. It's a massive market. But if we look 
at foreign exchange markets, then we can see that  
their size traded per day was 9.6 trillion, and 
that is per day. Okay, that's per day. Oil markets  
in a year are smaller than foreign exchange 
markets in a day. So what happens if we look at  
a year for both of them? Well, given that foreign 
exchange markets are open for about 260 days,  
uh that means that their size is about $2,496 
trillion US versus $3 trillion on an annual basis  
for oil markets. It is barely visible in our graph 
as a percentage of foreign exchange markets. So in  
conclusion, the petrodollar story is the biggest 
myth in geopolitics. The US dollar status as the  
world reserve currency is not at all determined 
by oil producers invoicing in dollars. Yes,  
the 1974 deal was important, but it was about oil 
price stability, never about US dollar dominance.  
It was already dominant by the time. Sure, petro 
dollar recycling was mentioned in the agreement,  
but even in the 70s and 80s, petrodollars from 
the Gulf were only ever just a fraction of total  
US investments. And fast forward to today, we 
see that the petrodollar support for the US  
dollar argument is even more ridiculous than ever. 
Despite, of course, being still important, well,  
clearly very important, it's far less important 
for the global economy today than it was back  
then. That's reason number one why it's ever 
more ridiculous. And then second, the US is now  
a major oil exporter rather than importer, which 
can explain why the original petrodollar deal,  
after being renewed for years between Saudi 
Arabia and the US is no longer in place,  
actually. Um, and the Saudis have started 
hedging their geopolitical bets during the  
breaks and accepting other currencies while the 
dollar is still dominant. And while it could  
lose that dominance, there are a lot of countries 
around the world that are looking to displace the  
dollar. If this happens, it would have absolutely 
nothing to do with the petrodollar. But yeah,  
that's my take. What do you think? Let me know 
in the comments. And if you want to know the real  
details of how the global dollar system works, 
go sign up to the economics of money and banking  
via Coursera Plus in the link in the description 
or top comment below. And see you next episode.