You know the world is full of tears and laughter when the time comes when the time comes 幾世幾世傳 幾世幾世傳上 幾十幾根柑幾十幾根那松油來吧 傳來吧 June 13, 1987, the Yellow River was flooded by the Chinese. Both the Royal Yellow Boat Team and the Royal Yellow Boat Team were in Lajiaxia, and were on the boat to the disaster. The two warriors who had once sailed the Yangtze River, Lang Bao Luo and Lei Jian Sheng, were also swallowed by the Yellow River. There was a lot of controversy in China. According to reports, these youths are drifting away because they don't want the Americans to take the first ticket of the Chinese river. Ken Warren is very concerned about this. He said that if you Chinese go to the US to drift the Mississippi River, you will not be opposed. He said that if you Chinese go to the US to drift the Mississippi River, you will not be opposed. Of course, Mr. Mullen never managed to connect the current drift with the history of the guns of the Western Lies, which were in the river in China, 100 years ago. But the youth of China will never forget. When these drifters threw the Yellow River, Do we call them patriots or do we criticize their blind national feelings? No matter what, they just sit there, as the mother monks of our nation, sad and sad. They are all huge. It's not only about Jianghe. Look at these sports and sports companies. How passionate the Chinese are. When the Red Flag was raised, everyone was dancing and crying. If they lost, they would be scolded, beaten and in trouble. A nation that would never lose again. (The crowd chants "Long Live the Communist Party") The Chinese women's party is used to dancing. They are under heavy responsibility for their nation and history. If next time... They lost. Of course, there were many people who were not worried about these things. They left their country and went to see the world outside. Meanwhile, the people who were scattered outside, went back to their country to see the world. What do these two opposite sides of the same coin mean? Is it because of the history of the past hundred years that we have been suffering from this? Or is it because of the poverty that has been caused in the past decades? Perhaps it is, but not entirely. What is hidden behind these phenomena is the suffering of the people. All their suffering is because of the collapse of civilization. At the beginning of this century, a young man named Chen Tianhua中國青年 He was facing the death of his motherland in the dark, and was killed in Japan. How many Chinese people could understand him at that time? Today, we recall Chen Tianhua, and we can guess his deep despair, and maybe his weak sigh for the collapse of civilization. We can no longer avoid the old Chinese civilization's fate. In today's world... faced the challenges of the Western industrial civilization and the global cultural The older the tradition, the more dangerous the crisis. The more dangerous the crisis, the more passionate the root. Where is the root of Chinese people? Every Chinese with yellow skin knows a common sense. Chinese people are born and raised in the Yellow River. So how did this river create our national character? How did it historically define our civilization and destiny? I'm afraid not everyone has thought about this seriously. This is indeed a very special river in the world. It originated from the snowy mountains in the north of Mount Baikala. When it flowed eastward, it became a yellow mud river after passing a yellow plateau. This Yellow River is the birthplace of a yellow-colored nation. This nation called their ancestors "Emperors". And on this earth, there is a place for every five people. the descendants of the Emperor. Yellow water, yellow soil, yellow people. This is a mysterious natural connection. It seems to make people believe that the skin of this yellow human being is dyed by the Yellow River. Indeed, there is no other natural power in the world that has ever played an unparalleled role in the creation of Chinese civilization like the Yellow River. Regarding this, we do not need to do a thorough examination of the ancient theory. since he was the most common and respected idol in China. It is almost a symbol of our nation. But have you ever thought about why the Chinese people admire such a monster with a fierce image? Why do Chinese people worship such a scary monster? It is also a year of dragon. The study of dragon god worship is also very popular. This is undoubtedly a cultural expression. It is said that our ancestors, the great masters of the world, were all great masters of the world. They were all great masters of the world. In the rainbow, two giant snakes were seen swimming across the sky. Some say that the people saw the golden snake dancing in the wind from the lightning of the cloud layer. So they created the image of a dragon. This is a dream of a transformed He people. In the eyes of the original people, the dragon is a dream of the original people It is a very interesting combination What is the specific concept? Let's analyze The shape of the dragon is the horse's head, the deer's feet, the snake's body, the chicken's claws The snake's body reflects the concept of life For example, ancient people rarely saw dead snakes So they thought that when the snake was old, it would be young Chicken feet are also a symbol of life When the old lady goes to the market to pick chicken, she always looks at the chicken's 马的牙齿也是这样一般人说就是看看这个马有多少岁都是说几岁牙口鹿角呢就更不用说了鹿角呢每年都要掉一回然后再重新萌发出鹿茸来每多一年呢它就多长出一个叉的所以一般的猎人一看这个鹿有几个叉它就知道它有多少岁 Especially the deer's horns, they fall, which means death And the hair, which means life And rebirth In this way, the dragon is a symbol of life in the sense of culture The worship of the dragon god is to let people worship the non-human thing Which is the dragon 很奇怪的中國的統治者自命為是人世間最高貴的甚至於是整個大自然最高貴的一種存在物但是他們卻以真龍天子自命認為自己是龍的化身 在這個裏頭我們就找到了一個連接點也就是說龍這種自然界的惡勢力的象徵一種暴君 是吧跟皇帝這種社會世界的強弱者人間的暴君人間的橫暴者 是吧 Yes, a similar point Because the Emperor wants to dress himself up as a dragon That is to say, the Emperor wants to dress himself up as something that is not human In short, the reason why the dragon is so admired is because of the Yellow River. It is the respect for the Yellow River and its people. The Yellow River is undoubtedly the most violent and willful river in the world. A great river Some say that there is a certain kind of tolerance and evil power in Chinese culture. Some also say that there is a kind of This is not a coincidence. For a long-standing agricultural country, the life of agriculture lies in water. Water is dominated by the dragon king. So the people love and hate him, praise him and curse him. This is a complicated relationship, just like the image of a dragon. So the Chinese became more complicated. On the one hand, they wanted to make Long Wang Lao Zi a powerful man, and make him a powerful vassal. On the other hand, they were always playing with the old things while they were working on the drums. They would be so angry and panic every year. This is a wonderful Chinese wisdom and humor. Between the and the people have a subtle psychological balance. It is just like building a pyramid that the Egyptians have founded a country. The struggle between the Yellow River and China has also been put together. Our civilization started with the big fish. For thousands of years, the desire for water has become a vital part of Chinese culture. This mysterious fate is still in the dry North China. The story of Lao Jing village in Taihang Mountain deeply reveals the vitality and tragic fate of the Chinese people. Its meaning can almost symbolically cover the history of the entire nation. Therefore, it reaches a height of dialogue with the world. The story of Lao Jing village in Taihang Mountain The height of the painting. The author Zheng Yi, is the one who got this kind of inspiration from the Yellow River. Three years ago, I rode a bicycle from the border of Shanxi and Leimeng, all the way to Henan. That is to say, I ran through the entire Jin Shan valley.   The story I'm about to tell you is about the ancient capital of Yao Shunnv, and their birthplace. They had many activities here. And later on, the history of the Chinese people was shown here. This time, my understanding of literature has changed. I heard a story in a small village. A farmer in a village was born on the banks of the Yellow River. He was born on the banks of the Yellow River. Later, due to the collapse of the Yellow River, they lost their livelihood. There was not much land in this area, so the government moved them to a place with land. They were well-resettled. They were given land to build houses.但是過了幾年以後這些人 Many people went back to the Yellow River one by one. They found the rock cave and lived there. I couldn't understand what kind of spirit this was. After a long time of contemplation, I felt that it was a kind of connection between human and their land, a very deep connection between feelings and flesh. The more difficult the environment is, the more powerful the The talent of the predecessors was provoked by challenges. The civilisation of Yellow River is indeed a very well-known civilisation in history. The conflict between the harsh climate and the flood made the Chinese's water control, calculation and water management much more difficult than the Chinese's water supply. 土地測量以及農業耕作、飼養家畜、製陶冶煉等等技術比西方早成熟至少一千年但是在歷史演變、社會機制、政治組織等方面也因此而走了一條純粹東方式的道路 If someone tells you today that the long-standing autocracy of the Eastern society is actually related to water, you may find it strange. In fact, this is exactly what Marx and Engels proposed. They believe that the natural climate of the East makes large-scale artificial irrigation facilities the primary conditions for agriculture. Under the level of productivity at that time, a highly concentrated central authoritarian regime must be organized to organize thousands of people to complete. This is the view of the famous Asia-Syria production method. Unfortunately, Marx and Engels did not explain this issue thoroughly, and the descendants have been arguing. In fact, whether it is the Golden Tower of Egypt, the Great China and the Great Wall, or the Golden Tower of the Mayans in the southern American jungle, These ancient large-scale projects that have made modern people admire the official position, don't they all show a very similar Asian historical shadow? Aren't they all relics of ancient empire? Thousands of individuals, with a certain order, are all together, and are on the top of the highest peak. Isn't this unification of a society like a huge pyramid? Therefore, democracy, freedom, equality, are hard to become Asia. (The sound of the train) "Yaxia" is a ancient Chinese proverb, meaning "a place where the sun rises" In the mountains of the north, the snowy mountains of the snowy mountains, the rivers are the oldest civilization of mankind. and the oldest civilization of mankind. Whether it is the Yellow River, the Nile River, the Tigris River, the Euphrates River and the Indian River, these famous eastern rivers have become the cradle of human civilization. Therefore, Asia is a place of creation. The light of civilization rises from Asia, just like the sun rises from the east. However... After 5000 years, the sun has set in Asia. The ancient civilizations which had the first glistening light, have been darkened and faded away, one by one. The ancient civilizations which had the first glinting light, have been darkened and faded away, one by ones. 这是为什么呢 The Babylonian city, once located in the both rivers, is long gone. After the Sumerian civilization 8000 years ago, the Mesopotamian plains were still immersed in the endless conquest. Each of them became a land of the great empire. Many ancient peoples disappeared from the history. More than 300 years before the park, the land of Alishan has been returned to the strong palace of King Bos. The Golden Tower of the Niro River is like a dream that has been lost in history. It is always in a hazy state. The sad Sphinx is here, as if he doesn't want to explain anything. In the 30 kingdoms of ancient Egypt, and was as strong as the Golden Tower, unparalleled. But before the arrival of Alexander the Great, he was in the hands of the Bosnians. In the following thousands of years, his evil fortune was conquered until modern times.... In the more eastern and more rich India and the Henghe area, a completely isolated ancient civilization from the West, which has been going on for thousands of years before the arrival of the Yalishan Dynasty. Some people have said that the history of writing India has been written until 400 years ago, without mentioning a word "Hai". However, when the European pirates appeared in the Indian Ocean, this civilization was in a state of crisis. The civilization of the yellow species behind the Himalayas is extraordinary and extraordinary. It seems to be an exception. 为什么封建社会形态在中国长期延续这个问题已经争论了多少年人们提出种种解释总认为这是一个特殊现象其实真正特殊的并不是东方的古老现象而是欧洲出现了突变现象 Professor Zhang Guangzhi, a Chinese scholar at Harvard University, believes that the Sumerian civilization, which is two rivers, is a civilization that has been influenced by the economic, trade and technology. Later, the combination of ancient and modern civilization, which is the Mediterranean, has led to a breakthrough in the civilization. Finally, it has been influenced by modern Western industrial civilization. In the history of human civilization, it was not a regular historical corridor. In the process of human civilization from barbarism to civilization, the universal passage of the world is actually the Asian form of the East. Professor Zhang Guangzhi studied the similarities between Chinese and American Maya culture. He thought that they were the products of the same ancestors in different times and places. He thought that the ancient civilizations of Asia, Africa and America were all similar in common. Therefore, it is not a strange and special civilization. Its long journey is the final struggle of the ancient world. The challenges that Asia faced were the challenges of Europe to all mankind. to challenge the whole of mankind. The ancient culture has made the Chinese people's psychological burden heavier. When the Yellow River culture finally fell, like the one in India and Egypt, the Chinese people's hearts were very sad and painful.中华民族的心灵就特别悲凉和痛苦 A country once the great east of the great Macabre. A country that has been a great success of the European monarchs, a great nation of the great people. Napoleon also warned the West not to go to the capital city of Beijing. Why did we end up in the territory of the modern era? Why do we suddenly feel that we are very powerful after we have finally rid ourselves of the crisis of the destruction of the country? There is always a misunderstanding in our national sentiment. It seems that the humiliation of the past century is just a glorious fragment of history. Since 1840, there have always been people using the ancient glory and greatness to display the modern weakness and weakness. In the pain of the past century, it seems that there is always a way to heal the old and the old. Every time the archaeology finds the world, it seems to be able to get a comfort. However, civilization has fallen. 历史的富足文明的悠久毕竟都是昨天的故事我们的考古发现再丰富文物古迹再精美文明的源头再延伸难道不都意味着祖先对于后代的嘲笑吗难道不是让我们今天的遗憾傲悔和惭愧更沉重吗 (The The other 97 taels are imported. This reminds us of the time when Lin Ze Xu burned opium in the Hu Gate in 1840. It also reminds us of the time when the sun rose in the 1930s. However, history and reality are so unkind to us that they laugh at us. Our pride and our grief are always the same. His name is China There are a group of people in the ancient east They are all the descendants of the dragon Under the dragon's feet, I sing Every Chinese is not familiar with this song Can you hear a deep sigh from this song? What is the use of sighing? This quiet and scary idol has gathered all our past nightmares. Do we still need him to gather our grief and grief? The dragon's worship seems to be able to prove that the spirit of our nation is deeply attached to the ancient culture of the Yellow River. It has been left in the shadow of the history of our ancestors. This spirit is like living in a dream. Today is indeed the time to fully awaken it. The spirit of our nation is deeply attached to the ancient culture of the Yellow River. It's time to wake him up. We don't have to worry about the people who want to float our Yellow River. The river is just a sport. It's not a good way to play with people. One day, we can finally find the original meaning of the sport. We can go to the Mississippi River to float. It's a fun and fun experience. We don't have to lose a match to win the championship. The gold medal doesn't mean we're the former nation. Our dream of a thousand years of the empire was over when we were in the Great Kangxi Empire. Now, the most important thing is not to lie to yourself anymore. The civilization has fallen, we don't have to feel sad. The civilizations of the Great River, which existed in the world, have fallen without exception. British historian, Thomas Cain, calculated that there are 21 civilizations in human history, 14 of them have been extinct, 6 are still in decline. The first civilization is the Great River, Only ancient Greek civilization has transformed into industrial civilization, and has been the source of the world's development. We should be brave and honor history. History has proven countless times that the root cause of civilization's decline is not the external force's impact, but the internal mechanism's deterioration. Tang Yinbi said that the greatest effect of the enemy can only be achieved by a suicide that is not yet terminated. For thousands of years, the Yellow River civilization has been affected by the external impact of the government. But it has never fallen. We have always admired the power of civilization and fairy tales. But, even though the impact of the foreign invasion has no longer been accompanied by cannons and iron barrows, our ancient civilization has never been able to resist. It has fallen. It needs to be refilled with new cultural heritage. The successor of the wheel, the Yellow River has given us, and has already given our ancestors. The culture that our ancestors have created, the Yellow River cannot be re-created. We need to create a new civilization. It cannot flow out of the Yellow River. The old civilization's dust is like the mud and sand in the Yellow River. It is buried in the blood of our people. It needs a big storm. This big storm is coming. It is industrial civilization. It is calling us.  九十九十三年,九十九十三年九十九十年,九十九十三年   Do you know how many centuries have passed since the last time the world was destroyed? 幾時幾到晚上幾時幾只船幾時幾只船上 幾十幾根柑幾十幾根那少朋友來吧 傳來吧 On February 2, 1972, President Nixon held the hand of Chinese President Zhou Enlai at the capital airport. Since the birth of the new China, this is the first time China has held hands with the West. Seven years later, Deng Xiaoping visited the United States. This is also the first time China has really entered the West in more than 30 years. It's so difficult for China to take this step. Not to mention the Four-Headed Gang, which is in the Cultural Revolution, they also called for the "Buy ship, sell the country" idea. When we finally announce to the world that we are open to the outside world, and suddenly push the door of the country, we are so unfamiliar with this planet. Have you forgotten, in those high-end cars, we were attracted by them. We didn't have the habit of looking at the jeans, pants, and disc, but rather, at them. A country that has been closed for too long, a nation that has always considered itself a nation of the Central Great Nation, to let it open its doors to the world, it takes countless disasters and humiliation to realize it. This is a painful choice, but also a wise choice. This choice, in the end, is the destiny of history. We will find out when we look back at history. The fate that once ruled our ancestors forced us to make this choice. Humans worship the sun. Some say that the first gift the sun gives to the earth is the soil. Ten thousand years ago, when the ice on the earth melted, the blue wind lifted the yellow grave in the ice. It spread the surface of the earth in a wide range of ways. the surface of the earth. This vast land is the home of our Chinese people. Facing this vast and vast plateau, it is hard to imagine that the legend of the great emperor's family which was once so beautiful would actually take place on this vast land with all kinds of hills and plains. The scholars of ancient culture have said that the emperor's character is the character of the land. The emperor is the yellow land, which is the land of the Chinese people often talk about. It means the mother of the land. It seems that the emperor was the ancestor of the Chinese people. He was the incarnation of the emperor of the land. Yes, you see, the Chinese people on the highland, they were born and raised on the land. The ones who were buried were also from the land. They ate rice and soybeans, and lived in the cave under the mountain. They drank the water of the mud. In the ancient times, the emperor was called Huang Paohao. He lived in the yellow-green hall. After his death, everyone was given the royal power. Therefore, the respect for the land of other nations in the world is not as deep and grand as our ancestors. The Emperor and the ministers come here every year to celebrate the Qing Geng. The Emperor holds a golden dragon pear on his right hand, and on his left hand, under the support of two old men, he walks on the altar that symbolizes the land, even if he has completed the Qing Geng. So the five-storied lanterns are expected in the future. For thousands of years, Chinese people have been facing the world and living in the world. The earth is the root of life, the treasure of the family, and the meaning of life. The culture of the past thousands of years has been embedded in this land. It is very mysterious, as if it contains the soul of the Chinese. I have been traveling around the Yellow River for many years. It has all the secrets of the land that have been infiltrated into the land of Liang'an. In the spring of this year, I went to the Huanghe River to interview people. I walked to a village 20 kilometers from the Huanghe River. I was shocked when I met this man. There were two old men on the Yellow River. They were in the northeast when they were in their teens. They were very ill. They forgot where they grew up and what their names were. Their names changed. They didn't know how to remember their hometown when they were 18 or 19.  Half a month later, they returned home. Each of them carried a pack of soil from the ground. They didn't bring anything. The next day, they were carried away by a building. They were rolling on the concrete, crying all night. That's what the landlord told them. It was a very shocking experience. I still don't understand why they carried the soil. There is a divine soul in this mud. I have always been given mud. The philosophers seem to have a clearer understanding. Hegel once said that ordinary land, ordinary plains and rivers have people on the ground, and they are bound to the endless dependence. But the sea is over the limit of human thought and action. This activity that transcends land and sea limits is something that no other Asian nation has. Today's Chinese youth may blame our ancestors. Why are you so attached to the mainland, and can't cross the land's limits and go to the sea? This is the destiny of history. About 8000 years ago, the farming culture was born by the Yellow River. From hunting to settling on a land, the key step of civilization was said to have started from the hands of women who had been picking seeds. The first price to get rid of the wild people is to be stuck on the ground. Can our ancestors not choose this way? What is more impossible is that the Yellow River, the middle and lower reaches of the Yalan region, are located in a very unique geographical environment. in the land and the environment. If the historical culture of all ethnic groups is a tragic drama, then the geographical environment can be said to be the background and stage of the tragic drama. Then what kind of specific geographical environment does our Chinese culture develop on this stage? We can roughly explain through this map. The Chinese culture that was established in the Yellow River was divided from the outside world它的北方 它的北部是 蒙古戈比 曼曼戈比塔纳是很难预约的在蒙古戈比以北是西北利亚的浩瀚无际的西北利亚的原始森林也是很难以预约的所以北方是形成一种交通藏民 那麼在它的西北方西北方是萬里黃沙加上天山山脈 阿爾泰山山脈等等也形成一種自然障碧那麼在它的西南部那是世界上最為險峻高大的青藏高原 In the east, there is the vast Pacific Ocean. The Pacific Ocean is different from the inner sea, and it is hard to conquer. Therefore, Chinese people do not live like the Europeans in the Mediterranean, nor do they live like Americans in the two oceans. Destiny has arranged for Chinese people to have such a living space. For thousands of years, the Central Plains of the Fewo region has always faced the vast Mongolian Plateau in the north. This direct confrontation between the plains and the plateau does not exist in Europe. It has formed a strange historical relationship. This confrontation does not exist in Europe. It forms a strange historical relationship. The nomads of the highlands and the nomads of the highlands always used the plain, the river and the stream as their goal and often rushed down from the highlands like a flood. The whole of ancient China is almost a history of nomads and farmers fighting for their survival. Therefore, until the end of the feudal society, the thinker of the Ming and Qing dynasties, Wang Fuzhi, was proud of the Chinese agricultural civilization. His laughable laugh, his In the Central Plains, there are the city-dwellers, the westerners, the farmers, the rich, and the married. Before the industrial civilization appeared, who could deny the advancedness of the Chinese agricultural civilization? Of course, the Chinese must protect it from the influence of the nomadic culture. The best way to protect it is to pass through the city. The original village of the Lin Tong, Jiangzhai, in Shaanxi, may be the earliest to be destroyed by the city. All the doors are facing the central square. The village is only facing the east. This layout clearly shows the spirit of unity. When we look at Beijing, we will surprisingly discover a kind of 6,000-year-old uniformity. Later, the walls were built. During the time of the war, the walls were expanded to the border of the country. This is the Great Wall that Qin Shi Huang ordered Meng Tian to build. It is the Great Wall that Meng Jiang Nu cried and scolded in the legend. This is the largest project in human history. The whole idea of this project was invented by the leader of Jiangzhai tribe. With the city wall, it can withstand the attack of nomads. It can create a cohesion between the people and the people. and the people of the city were the core of power. Therefore, whoever built the Great Wall, it seems that he has the land, the rivers and the people within the Great Wall. The Great Wall has also become his home. However, at the coast of the Qing Dynasty, a Western country, the Alishan, had long led the army of the Maqidun, who were his enemies, away from their home country, and the ancient lands of Ouyafi. It seems that the Qin Emperor also started a large-scale war against the Xiong Nu. This ancient emperor never wandered around like Alexander. Instead, he followed the unique thinking and imagination of the Eastern Emperor, and built the ten thousand miles long city that Alexander never imagined. in the Ten Thousand Li Chang City. Qin Shi Huang's great imagination is still an unimaginable one. In the year 102, a Chinese general from Han Dynasty, Ban Chao, who was a slave-hunter to the Central Asian Empire, sent his deputy general, Gan Ying, Xidu Boswan, to the Roman Empire to see to the situation. However, the Ganyin was defeated by the waves. From the eastern part of the Alishan, to the western part of the Ban Chao, history has gone through nearly 400 years. Due to the high mountains and the high seas, the two civilizations represented by the two major empires in the east and west, are two degrees in the history. The direct confrontation and fusion of the strong flames that could be aroused by the conquest and re-conquest, the fairy tales and the re-fairy tales, finally did not flash on the big stage of history. For thousands of years, Chinese have been living on this land day after day. Therefore, they are particularly sensitive to the concept of time, and the season cycle of spring, summer and autumn. But the life of the past seems to be repeating itself. Because of the thousands of years of history as a benchmark for time, Chinese people are used to seeing the 100-year-old heart fall, only as a brief moment in the history of the Yangtze River. The interweaving of the century is like the spring coming in the winter. The social changes and the disasters in the world seem to be overshadowed. There is no nation in the world that has a deep sense of history like the Chinese. But at the same time, and not like the Chinese, who follow a unique philosophy of life. Changcheng packed the peaceful and well-informed Longgang civilization tightly. Soon he would no longer attack the Mongolian highlands like the Qin Emperor and Han Wu. However, the silent Mongolian highlands in the north would wake up all of a sudden. The highlands were sealed and difficult to reach. But he would easily send the forces and impulses that were gathering inside to the plains. The Yomu people were in a state of crisis when they met the drought. They all gathered to rush down the plateau. The agricultural civilization was in a state in crisis. When the strong cavalry of the Chengji-Sihan army came, even the Yellow River and the Yangtze River couldn 't resist the strong cavalry. The land of northern China is a land of many fields and fields, and there are many wars and wars in the north and south of the Great Wall. The king of Han has come to claim the throne. Many historical plays were performed under the great background of the Great Wall. If Qin Huang Han Wu built the Great Wall, and also expressed the spirit and power of Chinese civilization, then in the mid-15th century, the Ming Dynasty would completely become a failure and retreat. This 11,000-horse-drawn Ming Dynasty, is much more sturdier than the Qin and Han Dynasties. However, it also caused Ming Dynasty to be exhausted and hurt. When the female True Man rose from the black water of Mount Bai, and when the male Nuerhazhi was in the south, This long and long journey of the Great Wall could only record a huge failure. Later Emperor Kangxi said "It is pointless to build the Great Wall." The Great Wall in the northern part of the ancient city was built by a famous general Qi Jigwang when he was in Jizhou. 这位一年360日士多横戈马上行的名将被史学家称为孤独的将军他不但修建了北国第一段长城为了抗击倭寇他还曾在海边修了一座海岸长城那就是著名的蓬莱水城中国的第一支海军就守在这城墙的后面 No doubt, Qi Jiguang is the most talented military man of the Ming Dynasty. But he left us with a huge regret. Why did the pirates of the island cross the ocean to attack China, while the Chinese could only stay by the sea? They never even thought of going to the island to see what the pirates were doing. Why did the European Union, which had weapons, invade China, and China only knows how to repair the 10,000-mile long city, and how to repair the long city by the sea? In the early 1588, the sun set and the stars fell. Qi Jigwang died in the battle of the Jiaojia. The Great Wall was no longer meaningful after Qi Jigwang's death. Meanwhile, the invincible Spanish fleet was ready to go to England to open a new chapter in modern history. People still remember the ancient city of Huangxiu, Qin. It was once a desert. The sand was flowing from the north. The wind was caressing it. and comfort her. It seems he was a wanderer for thousands of years, lying in this desert, as if he had no answer. Contrary to the past, the Ming Dynasty, which was retreating to the rear, was greatly favored by the people. and the People are proud of the man-made project which is the only man-made project that can be seen by the moon and the space. People even want to use it to represent China's victory. However, if the Great Wall can speak, it will tell the children of China that it is a huge monument made by the destiny of history. He could not represent the strong, the strong and the brave. He only represented the strong, the strong and the brave. Because of his greatness and his long life, he left his own self-esteem, his own self-esteem and his own deceit deeply in the hearts of our people. Chang Cheng, why do we have to cut you off? Scientists have found that the ten thousand miles long Chang Cheng is roughly the same as the 15-inch drop line. This drop line is exactly what it means to be a farm and not a farm. Today we can see the stone tablet of our ancestors. This is the last border of agriculture civilization. Everything is clear. Our ancestors could never surpass the land and the agriculture. Their most wonderful imagination and boldest action can only be the construction of the Great Wall. can only be the "Long-Term" In history, there has never been a emperor like Zhu Yuanzhang, who would tie the people to the ground. He never allowed any kind of treason. This was the purpose of the defense. But he knew that only by clinging the people to the ground, his dynasty would be solidified. He has no feelings for those who leave the land. He is always far away. The law of the Ming Dynasty says that anyone who goes out must have a certificate. Otherwise, he will be sent to the government immediately. The oil, the money, and the trade have been all taken by the Chinese. The land and the autocracy have tied the Chinese to death. For hundreds of years, how could the China still understand freedom and trade?我能懂得自由和貿易呢? The 15th century was a crucial time for mankind. Mankind began to move their eyes from the mainland to the ocean. Whether it was the East or the West, history allowed them to choose. whether it is the Pacific Ocean, Indian Ocean or the Atlantic Ocean, they all open their hearts to the people of the mainland. Standing on the threshold of the 15th century, facing the sea, the Chinese people who have been used to living on the mainland, What choice will they make? In 1405, a huge ship, which was unparalleled in the world in the 15th century, was a strong wind from the northeast, leaving Fujian and Wu-Hu. Before the great choice of history, they first headed to the Pacific Ocean. To this day, people are still guessing the purpose of this ship. The fleet led by Zheng He, crossed the Western Sea in the first 28 years. The ships were sent to Southeast Asia and South Asia, and crossed the Indian Ocean, and traveled far to the Arabian and Eastern African coast. However, in human history, there has never been such a large-scale maritime activity. It is a political parade that is almost pure. It wants to show its gratitude to the overseas countries, to express the highest religious rights of the Chinese emperor to them. How generous and gentle the act of a gentleman is! Hegel said that the sea invited humans to conquer and trade. But the Chinese invited by the Pacific Ocean are the so-called righteous men who do not seek their own interests. Even if Chinese people come to the sea, they still cannot overcome the limited idea and movement of land. History chose Chinese people, but Chinese people cannot choose history. Only a few decades later, four small ships representing the weak capitalist were brought to India by the Portuguese, under the leadership of Daga. At that time, the huge ship "Zhenghe" had disappeared from the Pacific and Indian oceans. But the Europeans began their great exploration of the land. This is both a coincidence and a necessity. Asia, where the sun rises, the place where history was founded, the sun will no longer rise due to the great choice of history. Once upon a time, the Chinese civilization, which was leading the way on this planet, had to accept the fate of humiliation and passiveism. 500 years later, the Japanese navy was defeated by the Japanese navy. Whether it was Ding Ru Chang or Deng Shi Chang, their tragic failure was already predestined by the era of Qi Jigwang and Zheng He. For thousands of years, the Pacific Ocean has been silent. Once the Pacific Ocean's madness is in the military and the new ideas and cultures that are more powerful than the military, The Chinese have no chance to fight back. This is a western-style school of sea. It is not like the ancient Mongolian culture, which was like a flood, which was quickly destroyed by the flood. The sea is a new civilization. The ancient Chinese agricultural civilization would never be the same. So the race crisis and the civilization crisis erupted at the same time. The power of the old nation is bound to be taken from the outside world and the country. But the weakening of the old civilization must open the door to the new light of science and democracy. The very contradictory old king and modernized dualism have been alternating for centuries to write the history of China. This is a complex process, with a lot of effort. The process is very complicated. It has cost the Chinese people a lot of money. The ancient and weak farmers forced our ancestors to use the ancient and weak farmers to protect their own fruits. They were forced to go to the sea without knowing trade and competition. This kind of cultural We've become smarter. If China had given up on the choice of history, we would never refuse to make a choice. If destiny is not destiny, we would never listen to its steps. We have seen that the Yellow River flows eastward, and eventually flows into the sea. We should not refuse the invitation of the sea. I know The world is in chaos Ninety-nine is the end of the world Ninety-nine is the end of the world九十九年安徽 99's, 99's, 99's, 99's, 99's, 99's are the best, 99's are the best. If you don't want to sing, sing. If you don't want to sing, sing. Thank you for watching.   You know the world is a vast river Even if it's a few thousand tears Even if it's a few thousand wounds 幾世幾世傳幾世幾世傳上幾世幾人感 The human race has entered the age of space. The astronauts who first landed on the moon were probably the most proud astronauts of this era. But they were all from the European countries. Dr. Wang Gan-jun was the first Chinese to enter the space orbit. He spent 7 minutes on the space plane and crossed the Great Wall. He became the pride of the Yellow Sun. This is a grand reception for the ancient Chinese. Maybe even the Chinese have forgotten themselves. About 500 years ago, a man named Wan Hu, tied himself to 47 rocket launchings, and wanted to fly to the sky. He was crushed in a loud noise. It is said that it is the same as the Challenger No. 1 500 years later. No wonder the astronomers named the moon "Wanhu". For today's children, the fascinating astronomy always connects with the great names of Galileo, Hebbany and Bruno. In fact, in the 1st century BC, Chinese started to observe and record the sun's black cells. Therefore, the Westerners admitted that the Chinese were the most faithful and accurate observers of astronomy on this planet. In the first century BC, two great scientists were in the East and West. The Roman Empire, Ptolemy, created his great "The Heart of the Earth". The Eastern Han Empire's ambassador, Zhang Heng, created a "water soul statue". This simply transformed the "Heart of Ptolemy" into a model. But Wen Tianxue said that it was still a little bit different from Dixin. In this step, the Chinese people could not sell it. 10 years ago, Chinese pilots visited the famous British company, Ross Lewis. The British told them that the most advanced aircraft engine in the world was designed according to a Chinese engineer, Wu Zhonghua, who came up three principles. The scientific principle discovered by Professor Wu failed to bring about a new type of aircraft in his country. Today, we have to learn the theory of Chinese professor through the achievements of the British. Why did the light of Chinese civilization, which once had been the first of thousands of years, fade away after the 17th century? Why did such a smart nation become so slow and aging? What did we have yesterday, and what did we discover today? The Chinese Civilization 6,000 years ago, not every hand could have made such a beautiful and harmonious escape. Some Westerners always wanted to bring the origin of Chinese civilization to the fore with the Sumerian civilization, which flows from the two rivers. 仿佛不愿相信这块土地能够孕育文明这淘气出土的中原之地会不会就是华夏文明的源头 There is a debate now. In the ancient times, the Central Plains was a region of conflict between the four major groups of the Northeast and the four major groups of the Northeast. It was also a region of cultural exchange between the four different tribes. Chinese culture was a culture of integration from the very beginning. Look, our ancestors were not one, but two.  Think about it. I'm afraid that there are more than one people who are cold-hearted. If we can't deny the Chinese culture, the Wuyue culture, the Miao culture, the Northern nomadic culture, and so on, and add to the Chinese culture, then we have to admit that we should have other ancestors. But where are they?在哪里呢 The origin of civilization has been buried in a chaos. What we can remember is the great era of the Hundred Schools of War.百家争鸣的伟大时代 Confucius, Laozi, Mozi, Zhuangzi, Hanfeizi, etc. All the family members were in a good mood. But in that era, there were many holy and virtuous people in the Middle East. When Confucius traveled around the country, he founded Buddhism in Shijiaoni, on the other side of the Himalayas. When King Qi Xuan founded the Jixia Academy, and gathered various scholars, Plato also held a school in the Mediterranean Sea. Aristotle studied there. Today's philosophers call that era the era of the axis of world culture. The various ideas that were produced at that time still affect mankind today. 《The Great 》 《The Great 》 Since Qin Shihuang and the "Fengshu Kengru" banned the recitation of "The Hundred Schools", China never reenacted "The Hundred Schools", a historical drama like this. In these huge programs, in addition to the war and集權, we can see the personal Compared to the Han dynasty's pictures on the brick, the images of the Chinese painting, the images of the stone carvings, and the flying horses in the Tang, the spirit and the heart of the Han empire are not comparable to the Qin empire, which has all the six states. These little things, the real and artificial animals of China, their origin is from Moscow, and began to be a mystery to China in the Han Dynasty. What's interesting is that they have a certain ideal of a powerful empire, It is a group of animals. In the eyes of Han people, it seems that it does not affect the face of the Central China. Through the Silk Road of the Jushi civilization, Western culture, Indian and Central Asian art, has been constantly emerging in China since the Han dynasty. If the Chinese traditional dance is not as open as the Han Empire, and has a great cultural essence, perhaps it is still the same. It can make Confucius not only lack the taste of meat, but also can not produce a beautiful and colorful Han dance. In 1965, a Chinese emperor dreamed of Shigamuni, which led to the meeting of two ancient civilizations on both sides of Mount Himalaya, leading to the integration of eight centuries of culture. A Western scholar once said, "The most attractive thing in human's desire is the time when the Greek civilization, Indian civilization and Chinese civilization meet." Another Chinese scholar said that he used eating to compare Chinese culture with Indian Buddhism. He said that he had eaten this meal for a thousand years. So until today, I'm afraid that even children who don't know Chinese know this white horse. White Horse gave the Chinese a strange god. He rode the horse to the right of Piantan and watched over the India's His eyes were getting thinner, his nose was getting lower, his smile was getting more human-like. His clothes were also wearing Chinese traditional clothes. Chinese people have transformed this foreign god. At that time, our ancestors had such spirit, spirit and intelligence. The face, the eyes, the aura... are the first to be impressed by her.每个第一次站到他面前的人都会在刹那间被震撼 This giant head of the Juxi civilization, which is covered with the hair, is now almost a symbol of Chinese Buddhism and Eastern civilization. However, according to experts, its nose is a typical Gu Xila sculpture. The Far East and the West have such a unique and unique temple. Lu She Na, sitting here with all the military equipment, is an Eastern Yadin Na. He is a true and unrepentant A very important expression is to see your attitude towards foreign culture. Is it open or closed? If you refuse to accept it, then Tang dynasty is open. I once saw two Tang Sancai on the map of Tang dynasty. The statue of the great lady is so high. I was attracted by it. It was a state of mind that was very confident in life and in the times. It was a state of mind that was very brave and optimistic. It was the spirit of the times. The Tang Dynasty was a time full of confidence. It was a time of creativity and optimism. It is a very free and free world. The infinite and endless Lushena. The endless and endless Lushena. It is our miracle and pride. But when we face it today, have we ever thought about what kind of power and spirit has created its perfection and greatness? Why can't we create another one? Even the West couldnít hold back their desire to save us. British writer Chalviers wrote the book The Great Victory of the Tang Dynasty. Then the pen turned and said, In the beginning of the Zhu dynasty, China's culture and culture were well-established, and its power was far behind, and it was the same as the Western world's corruption, chaos and division. It has always aroused some of the most interesting questions in the history of civilization. China quickly regained its unity and order, and won this great lead. Why didn't it stay that way? Why didn't it keep the status of the world in terms of culture and politics? If the art of literature is at the peak of Tang Dynasty, then Chinese science and technology is the most mature in the Song Dynasty. When looking for the track of Chinese technology history, you will often find that the main focus of all inventions and creations are in the Song Dynasty. The first test site for the first batch of explosives is the central part of the Song and Jin war. The Chinese were able, around the year of the first bomb, to launch the first explosive at the time. but it never occurred to me that the same Chinese would be defeated by the arson of the foreigners 800 years later. In the year 751, China fought with the Arab Muslims in the Karas River. China was defeated by the Tang Dynasty and could not return to Central Asia. But this war was significant in the history of science. The Tang Dynasty, which had thousands of people, brought the Western and Arab people to make paper-making techniques. Then, the Chinese used the Chinese ink and ink, and the Chinese used the Chinese ink and ink, and the Chinese used the Chinese ink and ink, to spread the Chinese medicine from China to Europe in the dark of the Middle Ages. There, they discovered the Tianjin. The great invention of the Chinese people's wisdom, Ning Cheng, became the lucky charm of the feudal society in Europe. The gunpowder exploded the world market and built the people's land. Printing became a new tool. In short, it was a method of scientific revival. Europe won another technological development peak since ancient Greece. It was because of the high peak, that the West, in the 17th century, had to leave behind the leading China. No wonder, as Frankenstein said, "There is no empire, no religion, no noble figure who has ever shown greater power and influence than these inventions in human history." The Four Great Inventions However, the Four Great Inventions are destined to be destroyed in their home town. The Chinese who conquered the sky were the first to light the fire. They could not become the first to fly to the universe. The rocket and the cannon have been used for hundreds of years. They only play the role of ghost-hunting and fun-loving workers. They are the only ones who can communicate with paper and printing. and destroyed the feudal fortress in Europe in just a few hundred years. But in China, where history is so vast and history is so rich, it didn't succeed in developing a knowledge explosion for a thousand years. In the end, the West has introduced the printing technology to us. Although Shen Kuo had already described the Lopan needle and the four corners in the 11th century, China has never been able to become a great country. But the Western walled walls, by the guidance of Luo Pan Zhen, pushed to our door. What kind of power is it that is so tricking the Chinese? This study shows that the development of ancient Chinese technology, the development of science and technology, is mainly the development of technology. 就像剛才眾所周知的那個四大發明來說吧它都是技術發明這技術發明還有一個特點它不是那個一般的技術和那個脫離生產那種技術而是和國家統一有關的比如通訊啊水利啊還有那個軍事觀音所工業這些和國家這個大一統的形態有關和封建地主經濟相適應的這麼一種 技术,这种技术吧,四大发明是为代表的它都是通讯方面,即作为国家统一方面的显示这么一种力量的一种统一我们把这种技术成为大一统一技术这种技术在中国古代做出来是非常伟大的是非常难得的,最后在西方那个近代吹哗资本主义的过程中它起了很大的作用可中国发明的相当早 但是同时又带来一个很大的问题就这种和中国大一统互联社会结构相似的那种大一统技术使中国古代科学技术带上了一种枷锁技术在这个气球中很难实现转移今天回想起来 The 16th and 17th centuries are indeed the saddest two centuries for the Chinese. When Wang Yangming sat there and cut the bamboo, Da Fenqi, on one side, cut the body, and on the other side, drew Mona Lisa. Meijerlun completed his earliest space travel. Goebbini was also preparing to publish the "Construction theory". Later, when Gu Yanwu was most interested in the "Ding Zhenggu's Westerners study the stars, human body, and chemical matter. Chinese people study books, words, and paper. So Hu Shi once said, "Chinese humanities create more knowledge from books, while Western natural science creates a new world." So after the 17th century, the new world was about to be the gate to the ancient East. It was about to break free from the fascism of the Middle Ages. It was about to bring a new civilization to the sea with a full of vitality. If the new civilization was to be the gate to the East, If you say... 1500 years ago, the emperor of China took the initiative to invite the monks of India. Now the Western monks are coming without invitation. This tall, handsome man with a full face and a dress like a man, is the famous Italian missionary, Lima Dō. Li Ma Dou came to China in 1582. He died in Beijing in 1610. He is still in Beijing. In the past 17 years, we have always called Li Ma Dou a tool for Western cultural invasion. In fact, since Chinese history can be given a high status to the Indian preachers like Jomro, why do they have to discriminate against this Western monk? I'm afraid that it's because of the impact of the second foreign culture, China no longer has the chest and spirit of the Han Tang. Li Ma Dou, this is the first time you have told the Chinese that you are not in the center of the world, but in a place in the northern hemisphere. The Western scientific works he has brought, are still kept in the library in Beijing. The first century after the arrival of the Western missionary, China has taken a positive attitude towards this new civilization. China is the first of its kind to return to the Catholic Church, and has been seriously studying Western missionaries and actively compiling Western scientific works, expressing a sense of historical history. Even Emperor Kangxi liked astronomy and mathematics. He also held a computer science institute in Changchun Garden, which is outside the west gate of Beijing University. It's probably considered a national science institute. This place was once the favorite place for the Qing dynasty's emperor and his concubines. This royal park, known for its beautiful scenery, was designed by Italian, Lang Sining, in 12th century BC. The emperor and the empress also visited the East-style pavilion and the palace of the Jatian Garden. They are willing to come here to see the sunset. Let's see the sunset. In the The Qing Dynasty emperors had to surround the city with big stone walls, sending the army with the large knife and the small arrow, to protect their dreams. They also locked the gate of the country. They also closed the coastline and the port of Tongshan. They let the big knife, the watch, the cannon and the blood-stained area to block the strong and strong armoured ships. In the end, the dream was destroyed. Modern Chinese people like to compare Beijing's two historical records. Some of them always see the Great Wall as a symbol of strength and prosperity. When they enter the Great Wall, they are proud of their land and the world is small. But when they come to this pile of impoverished rocks, they feel sad and they are ashamed. Of course, they are angry and they want to learn shame. Dear compatriots, have you ever thought about the connection between these two? It was once such a big painting of great art, with a great style, with a great style of carving. But it turned into something like this, with its own elegance, but with its own small style, with its own cleverness, but with a city style. The small pieces of art are too much to handle, which is a result of the decline of the nation's creativity. Lushenna. and never returned. Even Wei Yuan, who was once in the Human Realm, in his famous "Picture of the Sea Nation" actually described the Tianzhu religion according to the Chinese method of "Train the sound without a sound, take the essence of the people, and forget them". And the就像白花之前的水平了 When the most advanced and most learned among the people are so stupid, when a nation's soul and mind are abandoned by the times, what can this nation expect? At that time, there was only one person in China who was awake. It was because he was awake, he was more painful than anyone else. He said, "This is a person with a soul. The court has no prime minister, the military camp has no general. The school has no talented students, the field has no talented farmers, the house has no talented workers, the factory has nothing talented, the street has nothing talented merchants, and even the time when the money-loss and the wealth-loss have no fall. Sooner than later, he will cry out for the great cause of the world. When he is not able to achieve his goal, he will cry out for the great chaos of the world. He is Gong Zizhen. This former Qu Yuan, Li Bai, who created the four major inventions, and maintained the world's leading ethnic and cultural heritage for thousands of years, for what reason did he end up in this world, which has been affecting him to this day? And I'm afraid it will continue for generations to come. China's scientific technology and culture can help the West create a new era in the world. Why is the light of foreign culture and science always as bright as silver and thread in China? China is thinking. The youth are asking about history. to ask history. In the ancient place of the ancient civilization, the ancient cultural relics of the ancient time are all over the place. The ancient spirits are all over the place. The relics are all scattered. The ancient spirits are wandering around. The western and southern corners of this land are often visited by the three most famous historical figures in Chinese history. The treatment they have behind them is so mysterious. In the midst of the respect and coldness of the three people, Chinese history seems to have shown us the secret of history. In the West of the Western China, the Wulongs, due to the fact that Mr. Choo Kueh was the prime minister of the Three States, became the prime minister of South Korea. Therefore, the "Wuo Ju Mao Lu" was a terrible thing in the past. Today, it is a great success. Today's afternoon words are "shanmen", "yongdao", "zhuge", "huilang", "dian yu ting tai", "diao liang hua dong", "cang song cui bai", "bei ke ti ji", "wei wei zhuang guan", "hao bu qi pai". There is also a "yi sheng zi" in the east of Nanyang. Great doctor Zhang Zhongjing was a chief of Changsha, and he was a doctor who saved lives. He had double the respect in the hearts of the descendants. However, according to the sacred words, he was the first to come before the five marquises. 而且他那个长沙太守的头衔在墓碑上是一定要刻在一圣这个尊号前面的。 Among the three, the most cold and sour is Zhang Hengmu, who is from the north of Nanyang. Zhang Heng is a world-class scientist, and one of the most famous scholars in East China. He is well known in the famous schools abroad. But in his homeland, he is just a scientist and a writer. He is not respected by the people. After his death, Zhang Heng Mu still lies alone in the corner of the farmland in the south. He is only accompanied by Zhuang family and Qing Cao. If he had not been the imperial governor and the official of the imperial court, he would not have survived until today. Have you ever seen the tomb of the great scientist Zuchong Zhi and Song Yingxing? Today, people may not have forgotten the nickname "Stinky Old Man". The era of the extreme intellectuals has passed. But the past humiliation and the trauma caused by the sword have now taken the fruit of their sins. When the motherland and the people put the burden of modernization on their shoulders, the people will not be able to live in peace. they left their business and family behind with endless regrets. What worries people is that in this civilized country, which has the most respected Confucius, the status of a teacher is becoming less and less respected. 我们的成长是不足的但在另一方面文盲和半文盲却在不断增加根据局部抽样调查三分之二的中国农民至今还没有脱去文盲帽子当先进国家的教育已经在培养下个世纪的人才时我们却连扫盲都扫不及 These people can turn the flickering light into the sun. They are thin, thin and thin. They are in the middle of the world, thinking of the new Chinese stars in the galaxy of human civilization. There is no one more professional in the human world than them, who need more free air and unlimited space. If they are given a black cross, or a grey long city, then the light will never be the sun. I hope history will not fool the Chinese intellectuals. This is our deep wish.    (The and the world will be perfected. 幾時幾到晚上幾時幾只船 幾十幾隻船上幾十幾根柑幾十幾個那艘遊來吧船來搬呀 In the middle of the 19th century, when the big industrialist called capitalist was in Europe, a Jewish man had already exposed his secret in the British Museum, and declared his death. Marx, in his "The Capital of the Provinces" wrote the monster stone with blood on each of the pores while using his two feet to hold two and build the future society. This great teacher is very cautious. He only has a blueprint for the future. He believes that the communist society should be highly productive, wealth is fully reserved, labor is no longer a means of survival, and labor consumption is no longer the value of goods. Therefore, the trade-currency relationship will be out of the historical stage. In 1917, the Afro-2 然而,当时俄国还是一个落后的农业国,农业产值在国民总产值中高达57.9%,工业产值只有美国的7%。 This Pryhanov, who did not insist on taking over the regime, insisted that Russia could only continue to develop its productivity on the basis of capitalism. He was beaten to pieces by the victory of the October Revolution in the Leningradsky Challenge. However, history seems to have not covered the suspicion of Pryhanov. After the October Revolution, Lenin adopted a series of measures that allowed for the creation of various economic components and the production of goods. This seems to mean that Lenin did not ignore Pryhanov's question mark. Can a socialist country with an undeveloped economy jump over the stage of economic development? and economic development. The iron-backed Stalin was forced to当作人民公敌而枪决 But Stalin's model also cost the Soviet Union a heavy price. After the Stalin's death, the Soviet Union was on the verge of reform. The Eastern European countries once occupied by Stalin's model, were also forced to leave the capital and to reform. The Nanslavs of the Balkan peninsula, with their army, first rushed out of the Soviet model and found their own way. Then Hungary, Poland, and Czechia, etc., all walked on the path of reformation. History seems to have brought up the questions of the Han-Move again. But history did not fall behind, but people surpassed it. This irresistible trend of history, on the day of December 18, 1978, finally pushed China into the reform of socialism. This country has been suffering from the war. It has been a nation with thousands of years of tradition. The problems that will be solved in the reform will be more complicated than the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. and the countries of Eastern Europe. Today, how many Chinese people can realize that reform does not only mean that sweet potatoes are used to exchange for steamed buns. It does not only mean that electricity is used to buy ice cream and increase wages. It does not seem to be a simple job of 1,000 dollar. The reform is a great shock to the people. It is a risk-filled business. It is a difficult process that requires generations to make sacrifices. We are standing on the crossroad. Either we let our ancient civilization fall forever, or we push it to get new opportunities. No matter what, we can't push the responsibility of history. Ten years ago, when we finally opened the closed door and returned to the world, How surprising it is to see the Chinese living in poverty and poverty. The western and Japanese capitalism are so developed, and the rich are so rich. Perhaps it is this strong The glory of the Great Han Dynasty is not to be mentioned. But even in the Zhao Song Dynasty, which was weak a thousand years ago, China's economy, especially urban business, is still the most prosperous in the world. When the Northern Song Dynasty and the Southern Song Dynasty were already the capital cities of millions of people, Europe's most prosperous business center city had more than 100,000 people. No wonder the businessmen of Venice, Marco Polo, came to China, and they were happy to return. However, the Chinese civilization that made Marco Polo so surprised and envious, is now in decline. History is more loyal to the village in the middle of the sea, the village that has just developed from a small village. This is a country without agriculture. It is not even a country, but a city without an area, a commercial republic. In the year 1160, the Venice government borrowed 150,000 Marks from the merchants in the city to start a public debt. This was the first time in the world that a government had completely turned into a company. The citizens of Venice became the government's debtors. When the trade and currency relations become the main social and economic relations, the law to protect private property becomes unresistable. However, the business spirit of Venice is cursed by even Shakespeare. So, until 500 years later, the British made the bank issue public debt. I'm afraid that in China, you'll have to play for 8 or 9 centuries to understand this. Although China is a small and large country, its business has always been very developed, but it is not yet equipped with the true concept of commodity. The emperor is the only one who has the whole of China. He can sell his wealth to the people and sell his cattle. Wu Chang is also a poor farmer. The officials rely on the government to make a living. Of his own accord, he must also earn a lot of money. The government has a lot of people. This kind of central power system based on agricultural civilization has become a heavy accelerator for the old Chinese economy, especially the industrial and commercial activities. When the Ming Dynasty was at its peak, the Pacific was in a state of loneliness. The world business revolution that emerged from the Mediterranean coast was moving towards the Atlantic Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean and the Indian Ocean. Europe was gradually moving from the middle ages of the Middle Ages to the center stage of the world. to the center stage of the world. The overseas civilization has been able to show its open and open inner vitality and civilization advantage at the historical turning point. In January 1649, the British people defeated the king, Charles I, and the power of the king disappeared. One person's autocracy is a common position for a group of people. The success of the British colonial revolution made the island nation a first-class lamp in human history, leading it to the new era of history. In 1781, the park was built with a double-sided steam engine. The British got another Aladdin lamp. Industrial revolution created wealth in decades, which is a common source of human energy for thousands of years. It made the country that completed industrialization quickly strong. The country that fell behind had to suffer. It forced all countries to follow the path of industrialization, otherwise it would be eliminated by history. Industrial revolution has caused international division of labor. Capital has brought the whole world into the machine. Now that there are machines, the construction workers can live in Britain, while the weaving workers live in East India. The poor countries in the agricultural civilization of Asia have become the agricultural raw materials supply and product markets of European industrial countries. Since the world has become a uniform market, China cannot escape the fate of the circulation of world goods. The Western industrial advanced is never willing to let go of such a huge commercial and marketing ground, investment sites and raw materials production. Therefore, before the 15th century, before the Great Di Li was discovered, before the conflict between China and the West had happened, China had already lost a good chance to develop capitalism. After that, capitalism could no longer be produced from China, but from overseas to bully China. 1895, young Kang Youwei started a campaign in Beijing. The Wuxu Party recognized that the development of capitalism was the only way to save China. They almost completely reformed the country. But, the Chinese government did not give up. Just a few days later, when Tan Si-kong and his six sons were buried, China lost its opportunity to advance the industrial society. This opportunity is lost, and it is unlikely to continue to pay the heavy price of the past 100 years. Why is the modern industrial capitalism so far from China? Why are Chinese people so angry with it? Why is it that in the 1970s, it is still at the end of capitalism? and the big capitalists are fighting for it. In the first place, this is still the nature of Chinese civilization. These highlands that have been washed by the Yellow River, are also plains made by the Yellow River, which is the survival space of our people. The green fields with sharp ferns, the villages with dense wind, the nettings with watercourses and fields, are proofs of the hard work of countless generations of farmers. That is the skill and perseverance of too many people in too little land, and the power of the land to collapse as it comes along, and the people to try to maintain their survival. In such an environment, China's economy has its own development path since ancient times. One of its obvious characteristics is that it can raise a large number of people. In 1800, when the West conquered overseas, China was one third of the world's population. Some scholars do not believe that Chinese civilization is a failed civilization without industrialization. They admire the low-level farm-growing culture of the farmland. However, the problem is how the Chinese were raised. Until 1980, in a 40-kilometer construction in Lanzhou, the average man's food was only 40 to 100 jin. Two-thirds of the farmers had no food to eat. The farmers were forced to eat in the fields. Only 3 people have a bed of rags. 60% of people have no sleep in winter. This old farmer in northern Shaanxi told us that Last year, due to drought, they had to sell their crops When the situation was bad, they could only rely on potatoes to make a living After living such a poor life for a lifetime, he actually had three sons and five daughters Now he has more than ten grandchildren and grandchildren Dr. Yang has two sons. - He has four sons. - How many grandsons do you have? - How many? - Fourteen. - How many daughters? - Five. Five daughters. She has five daughters. - And four daughters. - Fourteen grandsons. Right. Because of the increasing population, and because people are the most precious in the world, people have more power, etc. This is a clearly unwise statement. It makes the land in the West less valuable. It makes more resources more scarce. Under the circumstances, the land with more gold and more gold, the life of the prisoners becomes lighter. Today, the population burden has become the biggest problem in China. The evil that has caused it is not worth letting so many Chinese people refuse. And this kind of large-scale human investment in small land not only makes the mechanized agriculture difficult to develop, but also makes the liberated rural labor force unable to get out, and makes the hard work of many people become the norm of social workers. The kind of work that relies on saving labor, pursuing profit, business and transport to collect wealth is considered an inauspicious talent. and those who are not rich are easily infected with red eye disease. But in another aspect, the gain of wealth cannot be achieved under equal conditions. Today, the government is being criticized. 正是利用价格双轨制的弊端依仗手中对商品的支配权批条子卖条子倒腾紧俏商品层层盘剥不仅搅乱了物价也毒化着执政党的风气和社会风气 The official business is one, it will definitely be corrupt. In the past, it was not, and it will not be. A small way of production. A small production method. and also created a whole set of low-goal self-balance values. Being content with self-enrichment, being at ease with desires, not taking risks, being in good shape, rather than living in a bad shape, and so on. Isn¡¯ it that to this day most people still follow this path? When we asked this young man in the rural north of the mountains why he was working hard at home instead to go out to make a living, he said, "My dad didn¡™t give him the courage, The situation is not good now. The farmers are suffering. In the rural areas, Chinese farmers are generally weak in the sense of innovation, their potential is low, their thinking, and the idea of life and death are not good. No wonder some scholars say that in the face of such a person's quality, there are many restrictions on policy. Even if a great economist, Kearns, were to turn around, how would he be able to survive? It's not the lack of resources, it's not the high or low value, it's not the speed of speed. The quality of a person is poor, that is the so-called "releasing nature". And the decline in population is caused by the increase in population. This is a vicious cycle of agricultural civilization. What other reason do we have to praise and miss it? This kind... of strange and unimaginable "Mu Ge" tune sometimes even causes a very hard to believe "Hot Soul" disease In those days of the Great Moon how bold and how rich the legend is blew the wheat of the North to the level of 7000 catties The southern waterway is over 50,000 jin. The great leader of the practice theory, the next scientist and the Chinese farmers who have always been particular about the practical, all believe in this kind of myth. In the land of 9.6 million square kilometers, every family has been hit by the fire. They shut the door, and hundreds of millions of people went to the public canteen to eat rice. It seems that communism has come to this end. This is the inevitable outcome of the economic utopia, the political crisis that led to the social unrest and the tragic history of the country. In the middle of this century, China faced another good time of economic development. However, we locked ourselves in the door, and with our eyes closed, we were super-British. We did not stop the big political movement, and swore to grow the grass that suits socialism, not the seed that grows capitalism. In the end, the economy of the people collapsed. History left us behind again. Open your eyes and see the situation of our people on this planet. The annual report of the World Bank shows some figures like this. China's total human resources production in 128 countries is always at the top of the 20th in the countdown. From Somalia, Tanzania, these African countries. China's per capita national production growth rate, export structure, and education and health investment, is not as high as the Asia's four small dragons. In 1960, China's national production growth rate was equivalent to Japan's. In 1985, Japan was only one-fifth of the total. In the 1960s, the U.S. national production was over 460 billion dollars in China. In 1985, it was over 36,800 billion dollars. We thought we were still growing. We don't know how much they have improved. If we continue to develop this gap, we will be a terrible example. In another 50 or 60 years, China will re-signify the situation during the war. Foreigners have guns and cannons, while Chinese have long swords and spears. No wonder some people want to shout out, "If we don't do it right, China will be expelled from the ball game." Whether it's Lenin or Pryhannov, whether it's Stalin or Pahling, or whether it's Mao Zedong and his many comrades, they all paid a heavy price for not knowing this mysterious and invisible economic law. Today, Zhao Ziyang can finally say here, "The socialist economy is a business economy based on shared interests and plans." 这是我们党对社会主义经济做出的科学改革是对马克思主义的重大发展是我国经济体制改革的基本理论依据这片浩瀚的西太平洋 has been constantly humiliating and suffering for us. Today, on the surface of the cloud, Japan is like a huge wealth that is strongly attracting us. Japan is suggesting to the US and Asia that we should adjust the economic structure. The West Pacific is becoming a new stage in the world economy. Fate is giving us another opportunity to move south. The golden coast of China has been silent for hundreds of years. With the thirst of 9 times the pressure, we rush to the Pacific Ocean. Chinese people are now more eager to enter the world market than ever before. But this nation has been closed for too long. It is so unfamiliar to the commercial economy. And its strength in international competition is so weak. The time for the major world industrial structure adjustment may be just around the corner. We are already late. We are also preparing in a hurry and not mature. Today, we finally understand how to manage foreign economy. But the only advantage we have is the remaining labor force. This low-tech processing industry, which is dense in labor, is difficult to form a long-term competitive market. Today we finally understand that we are going to participate in the international tour. But when we are watching the market, we are also watching our own market. We are always worried about the foreign exchange. It seems that we have forgotten that people are willing to invest. It seems that we have forgotten that people are willing to invest. We have to let China enter the world, and at the same time let the world enter China. Otherwise, we will lose our chance again. Now, developing countries are eager to make money for developing countries. But when they don't have a good domestic market, the economy of this country is always in a hurry. Beijing, a public car driver's monthly income is about 150 yuan. And a rental car driver's monthly income can be five or six times higher. In a famous tumor hospital, any doctor's income is no more than the old lady selling baked sweet potatoes at the door. 先天下之忧而忧的人却后天下之负而负这一切不公平的根源乃是社会缺少机会平等的竞争机制缺少一个共同的杜良衡市场只有发育健康的市场才能把机会平等竞争这三则挂起钩来而这恰恰是我们这个文明最古老的民族所最不熟悉的东西 Today, the 10-year economic reform has finally reached its most critical and most risky stage, the price is rising. The price issue has become a focus of people's concern. The Chinese people's psychological endurance of the reform has reached the point where putting a pound of pork on a plate can cause a fluctuation. The root cause of the risk is that we don't have a perfect market and we are a traditional, average people. However, this difficult step is a must for the commercial economy. If reform not only means gain, but also requires the sacrifice, then the Chinese must pay the price for the reform. Can we get through this crisis through government? Perhaps it's a test of whether the Chinese people really have the courage to reform. If we retreat because of this, China will fall into a deadlock. Wang An Shi from 800 years ago, Tan Si Tong from 90 years ago, how deep is their regret? A more important issue is that the economy is extremely unstable. It's showing a backward, getting worse, and getting more advanced, and more advanced, Ma Tai effect. The  那解決呢一直到那個先進的地區發展到富裕的已經不知道往哪兒花錢了然後他自然地往落後地區投資然後輸出技術這樣帶動落後地區發展按照這樣一種理論的話我們估計下到那就說中國整個的西部地區比較落後 東部比較發達這個西部地區要被拋到整個經濟發展和社會發展之外的話那麼要拋出去它要20年到50年20年到50年那也就是說1萬萬人口 要被扔在一个经济发展的格局之外当南部城市居民的消费眼光已经向港澳水平逼近的时候北部农民的相当一部分还在为温饱而奔忙当东部的商品经济已经深入家庭细胞之中的时候西部某些落后地区还在等待国家给他们去书写 China's agriculture is expanding over the past few thousand years. From the Yellow River, to the Yangtze River, and then to the South East Sea. Today, we see a opposite direction of the industrial civilization is expanding from the coastal sea to the Yangtze River, and then to the Yellow River. Only when this land that was once raised by our people and dried up its fertile land finally comes out of the agricultural civilization, can the Chinese nation really cross into the 21st century. Today, the 21st century is only 12 years away. The Chinese are indeed a bit impatient. They are not in a hurry. But if they do not do well, they will call us back to the history of the Great Leap Forward. The low-tech, low-quality, high-efficiency, low-efficiency waste development model has caused us to suffer a lot. The old economic era, which cost a lot of labor and resources, has ended in the second half of this century. A new economic era, which has come with the advance of technology and human knowledge, is coming. The advantages we have today will no longer be advantages. It's the same as China. When we think about it, we always think that it is rich in resources. It is even confident that it can launch rockets for developed countries. But when we calm down and think about it, we will find that it is actually a lot of people, and the resources are short. The technology is backward and not developed. The labor quality is very low. Mao Zedong was right. We are one poor and one white. This is not a blank paper that can be applied randomly. Poor is because of the white. White is because of the poor. We are facing a double reform and reconstruction. I said before that the failure of economic reform may be due to the failure of price reform.  A great nation that once created the most mature and brilliant agricultural civilization. A nation that is too old-fashioned because of this agriculture civilization. When he stands at the threshold of industrial civilization, sometimes he may seem childish, and confused, and not aware of his mistakes. But it doesn't matter. As long as he finally sells himself to the threshold, and makes up his mind to sell himself in, this nation can regain its youth.  就是就是傳說就是就是傳說就是就是傳說就跟那首公歌的來吧快來吧   天下光和即是即到晚即是即到晚上 幾世幾世傳幾世幾世傳上 幾十幾根柑幾十幾個那少朋友來吧傳來吧 The nature suddenly becomes strange in front of humans. From the stormy California to the flood of the Mengjala Plateau, from the high-temperature hot streams that have been rolling down the coast of the Mediterranean, to the vast areas of dry drought in the African highlands that have not been resolved for many years, the Earth seems to be in a state of tremor. Humans have been living in the world for ten thousand years. They have been living in the world for ten thousand years. The Erniro phenomenon, this very new name, is like a ghost wandering around the world. In front of its creator, the human society has become strange and strange. It is becoming more and more difficult to control. Marx had already been in the middle of the capitalist era, and he never thought about it. The mythological class had been attacking the Western industrial civilization for 200 years. Although they had already revealed various diseases, they were still constantly adjusting and updating in the midst of the difficulties. Since the beginning of this century, the socialist countries that have been through the thin and weak chains of imperialism have now started to make a large-scale social reform. The U.S. and the Soviet Union's military and the war on the coast, the constant political changes between the United States and Africa, the democratic trend in East Asia, and the terrible events in Europe that are happening in the附属, have caused the disease to be so severe. All of this has turned our planet into a mess. Nature and society, these two civilizations, based on the same foundation, why are they so full of worries? Is there some kind of connection between these two worries? The flood in the northeast Liao River, local people are working hard to fight the flood. The Red Wind finally passed through the mainland. GeZhouBa suffered severe test, the whole Huazhong area breathed a little. However, the For the Chinese, no flood is as terrible as the Yellow River. In the time of the Book of Songs, the Chinese sighed, "The four rivers are one, and the human being is a few." In the history of civilization, the Yellow River has always been a threat to China. China's trouble. Today, Chinese people still have a deeper desire. Why is our feudal era so long? Long as the never-ending Yellow River and Red River. This is a bigger nightmare.一个更大的噩梦 He kept disappearing from the tomb in Mount Li, and he was buried in the 2000 years of history. For hundreds of years, he wanted to be buried in the tomb, but he never came back. The history is so slow and heavy in the ancient way. The Yellow River is so slow and heavy in the way of the sand. It's also slow and heavy. Will the flood come again? Will the flood never stop? We are asking the Yellow River and history. We don't know what the Yellow River looked like in the ancient times. The Yellow River that is now before you is not just a huge dragon that is rolling around like a wild beast? This is the Yellow River in Inner Mongolia, Toghto River. After being blocked by Luliang Mountain, it suddenly turned south and left the Yellow River. From then on, he became very violent in the valley of Jin Shan. Look at his current appearance. Can you imagine his graceful and gentle appearance in the old days? Can you imagine his gentle, comfortable and gentle appearance in the old days? The water turned into a whirlpool, the flowing river turned into an unbearable struggle, the pregnant woman turned into a prostitute, the mother turned into a tyrant. From the beginning of the record, the first flood of the Yellow River occurred in the five years of King Zhou Ding, before the civil war in the year 602. From that time until 1938, the Kuomintang's eight flower ponds, in the 2540s, the Yellow River was destroyed 1590 times, and the Great Reformation 26 times. In average, there were two dams in three years, and one Great Reformation in 100 years. In the world, the Yellow River is probably the most violent river. The and the late Marquis of Qi Huan's Grand Assembly, Kui Chiu. He is now safe. The 800 miles of Liao Erwa written by the water tiger, which is the place where the ancient people used to live in the Dongting Lake, where is it now? At that time, the world's most prosperous capital city, the capital of the capital, Bianliang, was now buried under the ground of 10 meters of yellow soil. Not to mention, the people, their lives and property were all destroyed by the flood. What nation or country would suffer such a temporary destruction? This temporary destruction is not only a natural phenomenon in China, but also a social historical phenomenon. In a large scale, the feudal dynasty in Chinese history, from its establishment, development, and victory, gradually emerged into crisis, and erupted into chaos, until it collapsed. Every two or three hundred years, there would be a fierce upheaval. The old dynasty was destroyed, and the new dynasty began to rise. It is also obvious that it is a time-period. The so-known "divide, the wine will be in harmony, and the wine will be divided" seems to be like a yellow river that is broken, and never stops. This kind of social structure is not as revolutionary as some theories. No, it only shows the destructive and cruel nature of the Jin people. At the end of the dynasty, the war was over. The land was destroyed, the city was destroyed, the fields were deserted, and the population was reduced. In the eight years of the Qin-Han friendship, the population of the country has decreased by 10 million. During the reign of the Eastern Han, the population was more than 50 million. After the Golden Age and the Great War between the three states, there were only more than 7 million people left. There were 100,000 families in Chang'an, and the number of people who came to visit was almost zero in two years. The cycle of the Great Depression is constantly destroying the production of the land. The more developed and prosperous the region is, the more it is destroyed. The Central Plains was China's earliest economic development region. After the Great Depression, the people were cut off and the dogs were not heard. The highlands in the Middle Ages were open. The Tang Dynasty was the small city. The Northern Song Dynasty was the world's largest city. The Yuan Dynasty was the last to be destroyed. It was a 600-year-old big cycle. The and the Li Ma Dou brought 15 books from the West to combine the original books. He combined the first six books with Xu Guang Qi. The king of Ming Dynasty translated them for 200 years. But in these 200 years, Xu Guang Qi's books were sent to Japan and promoted the scientific development there. The new factors of Chinese civilization continued to be in the cycle of great turmoil. The terrible social unrest is not far away from the Chinese people today. Although the Cultural Revolution has been going on for 11 years, its windows of hope are still in the hearts of the people. But have the good people ever thought about why the social unrest before liberation only occurred a few decades ago? Does this mean that the old, one-off social unrest is still continuing? The terrible prophecy of the seven or eight years, the Wangqiu society in Furong Town, has it really become a record of history? GUNDOGA! GUNDOGA! Gundogooo! The Chinese people hope that there will be no more chaos, as if the Yellow River will never be broken again. But the flood is unpredictable. But the flood is unpredictable. Since the flood in the southern part of Henan in 1975, the Yellow River Commission has issued a warning. One day later, the Yellow River may still have a flood of millions of years. Once the flood occurs, the Yellow River will either retreat north or south, causing a devastating disaster that will cost hundreds of millions of yuan. This will bring a huge threat to China's modern construction. We don't know when he will fall. The Yellow River is a strange river that is hard to understand. The most special thing about it is its terrible mud sand. The Yellow River is a mud-stained river. It is the only one in the world. There is no such thing as a and it is used to collect 16 billion tons of sand from the highlands every year. The sand is piled up to a 1 meter high, which can be used to cover 27 areas. After several thousand years of flow, the Yellow River has made an abyss of thousands of ditches and has also made an abyss of many lands and has also made a flood-like place which is full of disaster. He left the burden to the Chinese, and left it to the sea. No wonder some people say that the water and soil loss caused by the Yellow River is the real source of the Chinese people's blood. When the most important Chinese figure faces the Great River, What would he think? He was very worried at the time. What would he do if the Yellow River rose? Mao Zedong, a great man, said many things about the Yellow River. But he was very careful and didn't say much about the Yellow River. He was over 70 years old, and he wanted to travel to see the source of the Yellow River. He said, "People say that unless the Yellow River is not dead, I will not give up even if I reach the Yellow River." For centuries, the Yellow River has been the ancient wish of the Chinese people. It is like an eternal dream. The New China once entrusted this dream to the Three Gates. In 1955, Deputy Prime Minister of the State Council, Deng Zihui, announced to the representatives of the National People's Congress in Huanren Hall, "After the Sanmen Xia reservoir is completed, all of us here, and the people of the country, can see the day the people have dreamed of for thousands of years in the lower reaches of the Yellow River, the Yellow River Green." At the time of Zhuang Yan 32 years ago, the Chinese believed in a saying, "The sage is the most beautiful in the world." However, the Yellow River did not become clear. The mud and sand were like a three-door dam, and the water was like a river, and the river was flooded with 800 miles of water. The ancient people's abode was once again turned into a bubble in the muddy Yellow River. become a cannon. The three swordsmen's father, Gung, often reminds us of his father's tragedy. In the days of flood, Gung led the people to water, but he used the gambling method, and failed. After he was killed, he was thrown into the wilderness. The body was not fully recovered for three years. People threw him into his stomach. Yu was born. Yu learned from his father and changed his method of teaching. The mountain was opened and finally the flood was over. From then on, he was famous for his lightness. The Yellow River flows from the foot of the Great Yu River to our land. It seems to have only made a small bridge, but it has been in the human world for thousands of years. For thousands of years, the Chinese people have been fighting against the Yellow River. The result of the fight was that we finally used the two thousand miles of land to build the Yellow River, and even send the flood in Nisha into the sea. People often admire the power of ancestors to build the ten thousand miles of Great Wall and the Great Yunhe River. But the thousand miles of land is also a great miracle. The Great Wall is only a part of the official value. The Yun River has been cut off. Without the Great Yellow River, it is still related to our cultivation. So some people call it the Water Wall. The sand pile of the old days, kept building up and changing, and our ancestors kept bringing it back to the ground. This competition between the high and the low, became the only way for the Chinese to conquer the Yellow River. Today's Yellow River is built in the early days of Guangxu. In just 20 years, it has become the upper river again. The average height of the river bed is 2 cm every year. Some rivers are average 22 cm every year. Since liberation, we have been on the high and wide road three times. It has guaranteed the safety and safety of the world for nearly 40 years. In the modern history of the Yellow River, it has almost become a miracle. But, it is the same as our ancestors. They could not get rid of the passive situation of the high and low levels. Look at the two cases of the Xuanhe River today. The cities, railways, oil fields, villages, and countless facilities and forests are all under the threat of the possible destruction of the top. The Yellow River has been flooded eight times in the past. It was here that it was flooded eight times. The most serious one was the second time. It was once in the late Ming Dynasty. It was in the late Li Zhicheng period. The entire Kaifeng City was flooded. Now it's below 7 meters. The old city is still below 7 meters. The second time, the KMT took the Huanhuan Pass. After taking the pass, they took the Jialuhou River and went to the Jialuhou Pass. They entered the Huanhe River, forming the Huangfan District. In recent years, the Huanghe River has been in the city, but the Huanghe River is still in great danger. The people have said that the Yellow River is the most difficult and the most difficult. The opening point of the Yellow River is the most difficult and the most difficult. It's very soft. The softest point is that the riverbed and the ground surface are 9 meters apart. It's a round river. Once it's open, it's like pouring water into a pot. It's very serious. It's a big threat. In recent years, as the mayor, I've been most worried about the Yellow River and the power supply problem. Because the disaster that the people have caused is too serious. How do we face the future flood? Where is the way out of the Yellow River? The 40-year-old An Lan Wu Shi has formed a kind of numbness in the Chinese people. People seem to be about to forget his clear face. This kind of mentality is perhaps like the Great Qing An Ling suddenly burning in a big fire. People remember that there was a forest there. But the scientists and experts could not forget the horrible Yellow River. Even if the Yellow River was silent and silent, they had concerns, had optimism, and had doubts. The Great Yellow Sea was always full of gossip. I reported to Governor Zhao that Governor Zhao had been in the Yellow River. 意見都給我終結了給我終結了三條所以你華語的觀念我聽清楚了一個你對黃河的特點量情一會你利用量情同時利用一會還利用一會你說你量情一會 The way you study it is to come up and down the river, and your direction is to come up and down the river. There is a very good condition for this spring. The water can be separated by a high spring and flow out. Some people think that they want to separate the river from the land They want to cover the whole area with mud That's not possible Because the river flows along the river There used to be a river A river that flows out of the water 所以我覺得現在對於黃河下游改島的問題應該待在治理黃河的日程上來究竟它改島不改島所以一百年問題那一百年以後怎麼樣 30 years of stability, what will happen in 30 years? If we don't consider this issue this year, we will leave a problem to the future generations. We, the Hong Kong People's Congress, think that firstly, the Yellow River cannot be cleared, nor should it be cleared. Second, the current Yellow River must be built on the existing river. It is not allowed to be changed. Indeed, the Yellow River is a complex university. The Yellow River is the biggest problem in the world of water science. It is a historical legacy that we can not choose from our ancestors. It is also a difficult choice that we must make for the future generations. History and the future are hunting us down today. The Yellow River that feeds us must also harm us. There is a good and there is a bad. It's like what humans have taken from nature. Nature must take revenge on humans. This sounds like a ridiculous rule. It's actually also in Chinese social history.也通行在中国的社会历史之中。 Isn't supporting the Great Yellow River a perfect symbol of our united social structure? If we go back to the world map of the Middle Ages, we will find that the broken European territory, the neighboring China, is like a rough road. Japan and India are also a divided country. Only in eastern China, there is a vast and unified map. Although sometimes it is necessary to break it, it will be broken soon. In comparison, the great empire of Europe, the great empire of the Arabs, and the great empire of the Mongolian Empire, are just a flash in the night. What kind of power can put such a big country together for over 2000 years? This mystery of unification has caused Chinese and foreign scholars to get stuck in the web of evil. Marx had compared the social structure of the feudal economy with a generation of potatoes. Although they were put in the same pocket, they were separated. In ancient China, small farmers were like the night sky, full of sand and mud. They are social and have the same beliefs as the Confucianism. This is why we have divided the Confucianism into the society. This unique social structure, once created a high level of prosperity in China. Although it is in this miracle of Da Yitong, in a brilliant and well-known and well-known reputation, in a absolutely loyal emperor, saint, old man, and the ancestral rank, it is in the midst of the self-pity. The inner part of this social structure is quietly rotten. This situation is very similar to the Great Yellow River, which is being emptied by the Ruyi and Tianshu. The official and the Liao teams of the Confucianism are a kind of indisputable subversive. Power itself is a kind of subversive. So, often, when the time of victory comes, the collapse is right in front of us. However, the old dynasty collapsed, the new dynasty soon replaced it, and the social structure was restored to its original state, and continued to the next collapse. Just like the Great Yellow River, it collapsed, and people repaired it, waiting for the next collapse. Why are we always trapped in such a cycle of life and death? in the whole of fate? This mysterious super-stable structure has dominated us for two thousand years. And now, the golden throne in the Forbidden City has long become a historical relic. The huge Confucian official network has also been destroyed. But the ghost of the Great One is still wandering on the mainland of China, the nightmare of social shock is still in people's memory. More importantly, the authoritarianism and the authoritarian ideology, which has caused the destruction of our four major plans, These ancient social integrity is like the Yellow River, bringing sand every year, and gradually accumulating crisis in the river that rises and falls day by day. Perhaps, just like people worry about the constant rise and fall, they are always super stable, which is also worrying. The history has given us a warning. Is it still too little? Why would China have two or three hundred years of great destruction? Why would these destruction cause the long-term stagnation of Chinese feudal society? Of course, the reasons are very complicated. But simply speaking, we can see it as such. As we all know, there is no such thing as a single constant. This is the same for a society, for a social structure. So people often say that there is no empire that is eternal. In any society, we will actively analyze the various changes that it has made. 大概可以發現兩種不同的因素一種因素是成為進步一種因素我們認為是社會進步的有組織的一種因素比如說生產力的發展城市的發展人口的增多以及等等新組織的門牙的出現另外一種因素是對新組織的建設沒有建設性意義但是僅僅是破壞舊組織的因素我們把它稱為無組織力量 比如說中國每個王朝它隨著王朝建朝以後一開始官僚體系是比較清廉的但隨著後來機構開始腐敗官僚人員開始增長土地兼併開始增多這個物主的力量的增長後果就在瓦解舊有的社會機構 But if we can't build a new structure in time, then the consequences will be tragic. In the 9-meter-long open city of the Yellow River, the history of the endless prosperity and the endless disaster that has once played a major role in the country. However, today, the stories of the two characters that happened here are even deeper than those of Tieta and Xiangguo Temple. This black-faced man has been famous for 800 years. Even though he is just a rare, philistine idol who has suffered the suffering of the people in the feudal society. But today, Kaifeng people are still deeply in love to build such a magnificent palace. People around are not aware of it. Is it just for traveling? What does the concept of "Castle in the Sky" mean? Not far from the Baogong Temple, in an old camp, a dark nightmare happened. In this dark room, the chairman of the Republican Party and the Constitution, was imprisoned and spent the last 28 days of his life. When he died, his gray hair was long and long. A fate of the chairman of the Republic of China. is enough to represent the fate of an era. But from another perspective, when the law cannot protect an ordinary citizen, it cannot protect a president of a republic. Comrade Liu Shaoqi's White Bone has exposed the tragic and tragic events of the era. But the root cause of the chaos is not the fate of the people. It is a national tragedy. If the social structure of China is not updated, and the political, economic and cultural issues of China are not modernized, who can guarantee that the tragedy will not happen again? (The Today, the National People's Congress has finally been voted for by someone who has raised his hand for the first time. How difficult is this? Who can say that this is not a progress? No matter what kind of resistance and risk this reform will face, We can only move forward and move on. We had a flood behind us. We had a chaos behind us. We must move forward and move on. We must break through the cycle of history. Perhaps...  I know The world is in chaos Ninety-nine is the return of the emperor Ninety-nine is the return of the emperor九十九年華盛頓    You know the world is full of Tens of thousands of tears 幾時幾到晚上幾時幾只船 幾世紀只傳聖幾世紀根幹幾世紀各那送遊來吧傳吧 Human blood is red. Almost all animal's blood is red. Almost all animal's blood is red. The original religion defined the color of life as red. The original person painted the dead body with red iron ore, in order to call for the lost vitality. The blue sky is deep and mysterious. People believed that the mysterious blue sky was the color of the universe. Only 20 years ago, when humans left the earth for the first time, and looked around their hometowns in the space, they were surprised to discover that in the universe we know, only our home planet, Earth, is a blue planet. The planet of life is the blue planet. All the life on earth has been given by the atmosphere and water, making the earth a blue planet. The blue sea covers the surface of the earth. The sea was originally the home of life. In the sudden change of the earth, the sea once protected the life of human ancestors. Later, when humans returned to the land, they were not used to it. In the process of forcing oneself to adapt to the environment of the mainland, humans created civilization. The These seemingly simple tools of navigation bring humans back to the sea from land. What belief supports these primitive people to cross the sea that people consider as the future? In these ancient people's sea-flying activities, and in the great sailing of the human can we hear the sound of human's fate? Human civilization is divided into two major categories, inner civilization and ocean civilization. This is a country in the Western Pacific. At the same time, it has a bear in the east of the Eurasian continent. Its body is yellow. Its big, like a pillar, is also yellow. We saw the boat, which is made from clay, seem like a distant source of Chinese culture, which shines a little bit of blue. But, in the age of myth, the civilized people from the Yellow River, the Central Yellow Land, have been conquering the lower reaches and the coastal areas. Today, we can hear the deep and deafening sound of the emperor's battle against the Yellow River and the Chiyou. Later, Zhou dynasty's rule over Yin Shang proved that the power of the inner land was unparalleled. In the late Chu and Qin wars, it was said that wheat was used as food and vehicles were used as war. and the yellow civilization that was influenced by the nomadic and Bosnian cultures, eventually defeated a large number of Mie people, who knew how to use the ship and the water to fight, and the blue civilization that was influenced by the Southeast Asian and Pacific cultures. The historic victory of the inner civilisation is not controlled by the The retreat of the blue ambushes the fate of a nation and civilization. The blue wave of the Pacific Ocean has been calling for the ancient nation on the mainland. Occasionally, it has aroused its excitement and has been moving its ships to the Persian and Arabian Peninsula. However, the attraction of the blue ocean is much weaker than that of the yellow land. The secret of the huge coalescence of the yellow civilization is that the Confucian culture gradually gained its unique status on this land. The whole idea of Confucius expresses the life rules and ideals of the inner culture. The period of the Eastern feudal society is obviously reasonable. However, the unification of the individual's thoughts weakens the diversity of development. The rich oceanic culture in ancient times is like a few small springs lying on the yellow soil of the inner culture. It is immediately invisible. When the civilisation in China was rising in the world, the blue ocean civilisation was rising in the Mediterranean Sea. Early in the ancient Greek era, the ethnic ideas of the Aden were aroused with the power of the sea. The power of the sea led to the revolution of democracy. The social premise of the Western capitalist revolution is also the beginning of European overseas routes. From the 15th century, the ships sailing between the oceans, which have exposed the world trade and the reputation of the people, and at the same time, they carry the hope of science and democracy. The blue is the symbol of the modern world's destiny. Thus, the large eastern market and the new continent of the US, make the small Europe almost overnight become a "revival home". The Yangtze River needs solid, huge and clever transmission. To create such a transmission, it needs mathematics and physics, and physics, require technology and science. In 1636, Galileo published the New Science Dialogue. This dialogue took place in the shipyard. First, Britain gained huge profits from overseas trade, and promoted the original In 1651, Colombia issued the Coastal Regulations, and in 1690, Roque issued the Governmental Theory, which became the slogan and principle of the capitalist world. Capitalism is the two wheels of industrial revolution and free trade. It has started the great leap, the double-edged song of science and democracy. All of these are closely related to the ocean. 中国这个时候在干什么呢?当麦哲伦正航行在他的环球航线上时,明朝嘉靖皇帝因为日本共识打架,开始正式闭关。 In 1776, Adam Smith published the famous "The Father of the Nation". In this book, he announced that China's history and civilization had stopped. He said that the reason for the stop was because he didn't value overseas trade, and that he had to close the border and commit suicide. Unfortunately, none of these words were heard by a Chinese in time. I'll hear it in time. Finally, when the famous fire at the Tiger Gate was lit, and the humiliating Chinese border was lifted, China had already cut a huge spiritual red line between the West and China. An expansionist culture, which was engaged in international trade and war for the blue civilization, and a culture confrontation between a yellow civilization that sticks to agricultural economy and government policy, is undoubtedly incomparable. However, as soon as they fought, the Western arsonist cannons immediately led Chinese officials and staff to be strong for the Blue. So there were foreign trade and Chinese-style western use. Thus, there is Yang Mu movement and the use of the center body. Yangwu's great officials bought back powerful iron armor and military ships, and built a military factory. The Jiangnan military factory located in the suburbs of Shanghai is far more advanced than Japan in terms of western skills.在掌握西方技能方面 远远超出日本 1870年左右,俄国人参观原在中国西北的兰州兵工厂时,为那里制造的枪支质量至精良感到震惊。家务战争开始时,中国的军舰数量比日本要多。 However, this did not prevent the Qing dynasty from first losing to France, and then to Japan. The most direct reason for the failure of the Jiawu Maritime War was because a corrupt contractor was used to make sand in many cannons. It was a Chinese fleet that was deployed in the middle of the month. the Chinese fleet. They didn't know who to listen to. This clearly shows that the system of corruption is a failure. It can't be returned by technology. The British government sent Yan Fu, a student studying marine engineering, to the UK. He did not become a war commander, but a This contract can make all other functions of competition and capitalism more beneficial to promote social change. Similarly, by using individual willpower, a kind of human service and the ability of Plumishus, it can create a kind of highly developed culture. However, when Yan Fu was in the 100-day He was a classmate of the British Navy, Ethan Bowen, but he was also the Prime Minister of Japan, leading the island country to the world's top country. Yan Fu, a tragic fate that has brought many great intellectuals, such as Kang Youwei, Liang Qichao, Zhang Taiyan, and others, It seems that it has been proven that even the most outstanding Chinese people have been in the process of revolution and have been in the process of retreating from the Confucianism. Until today in the 1980s, in the hot discussion of Chinese culture, people are still fighting for the "one hundred years of Chinese and Western culture". Whether it is a whole-pan Westernization fantasy, or the third-generation of Confucian civilization, everything seems to be still in place. 難怪有的青年學者這樣感嘆到巨大的文化財產變成了巨大的文化包袱巨大的文化優越感變成了巨大的文化負罪感這不能不說是中國現代化進程中一個巨大的心理障礙 The difficulty of the reform. Perhaps it is because we are always worried that the Chinese are still Chinese. We seem to not know. In the past 200 or 300 years, whether it is the revival of cultural and religious reform, or the movement for the establishment of the Mongolia, we have not known. The Western European people have never worried about whether they would become Italians, Germans, or French after the reform. Only in China, this is the biggest opportunity. Perhaps this is the most important and shallow part of the yellow civilization. Two thousand years ago, the philosopher Zhuangzi told us a prophecy. He Bo, the god of the Yellow River, found himself great when he grew up in the water in the autumn. He couldn't distinguish between the two sides. He went down in the sea. Suddenly, he saw the sea and was blinded by it. The owner of the sea, Bei Hai Ruo, told him, You can't talk to a frog about the sea, because it only knows that it's a small land, and can't imagine the vastness of the sea. And now, my little境界 This is a symbol. It is not an ancient Chinese symbol. It seems to be a pre-created one. The ancient god of the Yellow River could see the real face of the sea and recognize the power and the width of the sea. It is just a mere century. Only a century The sound of the sea, the long sigh, and the history of the past century, are all remembered to this day. ♪ (dramatic music) This earth of earth is not the real scientific spirit. The Yellow River cannot teach us what is the real democratic consciousness. The Yellow River and the Yellow Earth alone cannot feed the growing population. It cannot bring new cultures. It no longer has the nutrition and energy of the past. The Confucian culture may have all kinds of ancient and perfect treasures, but for thousands of years it has been unable to create the spirit of a nation, the rule of a country, and the mechanism of cultural reform. On the contrary, it has been constantly pushing its essence into decline, killing its inner life-giving factors, and attacking the elite of this nation.致西这个民族的一代又一代精英 The History of China The History of China The History of China The history proves that to carry out modern construction according to a culture of the mainland, the history of China is to be a little more modern. Although it can accommodate some new achievements of modern technology, even satellites can go to the sky, atomic bombs can explode, but it can't give the whole nation a strong civilization and vitality. Only when blue sea wind is turned into rain water, can these beautiful and lively flowers bloom again. the huge Yellow Turban Plateau was revived. In the Yanyan area of the Yellow Turban Plateau, you can see the clothing and hair shops run by young girls and boys from the coastal provinces such as Shanghai, Zhejiang and other provinces. The goods from the coastal areas spread out in the streets. The sacred and grey Baota Mountain gradually fades into a hazy background behind the red, green and gray markets. These old men and young men, their ancestors, had conquered China from this land of the inner land. Now, they have conquered the land of the inner land, along with the land of the land of the past. It is hard to believe that these young men are members of this powerful thousand-man demon team. Can their life energy be consumed forever in the whirlpool of the demon valley? In 1980, Shenzhen's special district was established. It declared to the world that the thousands of years of civilisation had finally reached the shore of the sea. It turned its face towards the land and looked far into the ocean. In 1986, 14 coastal cities were fully opened. China officially set out to challenge the sea. In 1988, Hainan province announced its establishment. Its short-term goal was to challenge the Asian four-dome dragon. The ancient Asian continent finally put down the stature of the Yangyang Empire. If Hainan succeeds, it will become a huge dragon in the west coast of the Pacific Ocean. This historic event will be a new color of Chinese culture. But in the era of rapid improvement, how many Chinese people are self-sufficient? According to the report of the Chinese People's Psychological Survey, Chinese citizens have a relatively common sense of political participation. 62.41% of the Chinese citizens say they are very cautious when it comes to political issues. 73.79% of the people still have a slight view of politics and don't interfere with it. They agree, basically agree, but don't object. They are still worried that political participation will cause trouble. They still lack the sense of security for political participation. The repeated impermanence of political movements and the extreme cruelty of political persecution still make people's hearts flutter. This is a process that will seriously hinder the democratization. The first time in the year of 1919, the "Fourth Movement of the Five-Six" has shown the essence of science and democracy with a completely unabashed spirit. The Western cultural ideas that Marxism is present in China are widely spread in China. But this radical cultural trend has not been able to absorb the political, economic and personality of feudalism. For decades, the city has been covered in dust and the city is now frozen. Many things in China seem to have to start over from the 5th century. Chinese history did not create a middle class to promote science and democracy. Chinese culture did not cultivate the common sense. On the contrary, it created the common sense. The common sense can only produce the obedient and the wild. But history created a very unique group of intellectuals. They are hard to have unified economic interests and independent political opinions. They have been a kind of rich for thousands of years. They can't be solid social entities, and use steel and steel as their economic strength to fight against the old society. Their talent may be used, their will may be twisted, their potential may be bent, their flesh may be destroyed. However, they are the ones who destroy the weapons of stupidity and superstition, and spread the blue power of science and democracy on the land of yellow. Amen. This kind of conflict between reality and ideals, or conflict between tradition and ideals, I feel first is the Chinese intellectuals, especially intellectuals from the modern era. They often first discover the end of tradition, but they are unable to change it. They always have the hope to break the traditional way of life But they often lack the courage to do so So they always feel the pain in their hearts In this case, I think the only way out is to force the world to change and to use the pressure of the environment to force people to accept new life and to endure the pain to create new life So I used three words at the end of Chen's book "China's hope is in the world" To realize this hope, we need to rely on the Chinese who are awakened by the world Our generation is destined to endure the pain of the heart Maybe we can become great because of this More realistic than intellectuals Maybe these are the poor, poor, and not amazing new entrepreneurs Even among the small business owners Among the businessmen who are in a hurry, among the farmers who are out of the land, the new social energy and impetus are unparalleled. We also see that even in these high-level political occasions, the transparency of the blue has finally been raised. The public's first public opinion on China's relatively neutral position is the media that has been in charge of the top-level decision-making and the dialogue between the people. Thank you. Thank you all. 然而,要使专制主义传统身后的东方人真正懂得民主是怎么一回事,并不容易。历史给我们留下了许多有趣的故事。1940年底,罗斯福第三次当选为美国总统。 蔣介石先生為詞在日記中寫道美國之民族令人羨慕不至特殿羅斯福總統助其成功三年後的一個晚上蔣介石的夫人也是特使宋美齡在白宮同羅斯福夫婦共進晚餐的時候說起美國工人罷工的事情 He asked Song Meiling, "If the Chinese government encountered such a thing during the war, how would they deal with it?" Song Meiling, with a long, 使其间所有的美国人惊讶不止罗斯福夫人事后说苏美龄对民族制度能够讲得很漂亮但是她可不知道怎样实行民族制度 The characteristics of autocracy are mysterious, dictatorial and arbitrary. The characteristics of democracy should be transparent, democratic and scientific. We are now walking through the open sea. We are now walking through the open sea. The Yellow River will cross the Yellow River. The Yellow River will eventually enter the blue sea. The Yellow River will cross the Yellow Valley. The Yellow River will eventually enter the blue sea. The sorrow and hope of Yellow River created the greatness of Yellow River. The greatness of Yellow River may be the great gap between the sea and the plateau. Yellow River came to the great and painful mouth of the sea.  The water of life comes from the sea and flows back to the sea. After a thousand years of loneliness, the Yellow River finally sees the blue sea.