Hi everyone, I'm Anthony.
Welcome to my channel
In the past few weeks
We have already made three videos about Iran.
I believe everyone can feel
Although we were talking about history
But in the end, it always comes down to psychological mechanisms.
Today I want to talk to you about another thing.
Topics related to the growth of each of us
How can we see the real people in others?
This question, of course, also implies a premise:
It's about truly seeing another person.
It is extremely difficult.
And we were in April last year
I made a related video.
It's about unconditional love.
In that video
We have demonstrated unconditional love and acceptance.
It should refer to the complexity and possibilities of loving this person first.
And encourage this complexity
Instead of using our preconceived notions
Try to force a set of human nature templates onto the other party
Because people only need to grow
It will inevitably tend towards complexity.
Instead of remaining in a certain state forever
In the simple and beautiful qualities
This kind of love built on complexity
It actually transcends our ordinary understanding of love.
The general understanding of love is often based on
Beyond specific moral qualities or abilities
For example, I love her kindness and compassion.
I admire that she possesses a certain...
Profound thoughts, values, etc.
These are certainly very valuable qualities.
However, these are all just phenomena.
Above these phenomena
Humans also possess an ontological level of morality.
It's about continuous self-exploration.
And this kind of exploration may lead to
A person becomes more and more complicated
Even denying one's own existing beliefs
This makes the parties involved even more confused.
But it is this change and complexity that is truly remarkable.
The deepest and innermost part of a person
For example, someone who has always been very compassionate
A person who always tries to understand others
One day she may suddenly become aware of this state.
The underlying internal strife or appeasement
So she began to consciously back away.
He seems to have become less compassionate
From other people's perspective
She may have lost that simple beauty.
It became prickly
But she is undergoing a process of negation of negation.
She needs to negate that indiscriminate sympathy.
To build other equally wonderful qualities
For example, a clear sense of self
Only then can a higher level of empathy be achieved.
So, this video...
I mainly want to discuss this from the opposite perspective.
Why do we really need to
Seeing others is not easy.
It is not easy
It's because when we face deep relationships
It is easy to fall into two modes
That is, idealization or denigration
Both of these originate from the depths of our hearts.
Projection caused by narcissism and lack
In daily life
We often see examples of "fans turning into haters".
Some people love others very passionately.
They wished they could entrust themselves entirely to the other party.
Love to the point of losing oneself
For example, the liking some fans have for celebrities
For example, during the Cultural Revolution
The relationship between the people and their leaders has degenerated into tens of thousands
The love of children for an idealized loving father
They saw each other as perfect saviors.
However, this kind of love is based on idealization.
It is extremely fragile.
Often at a certain moment
It might simply be because the other party showed
A kind of true humanity that doesn't match their expectations
Or it revealed a certain
The complexity we mentioned earlier
Then this intense love can be seamless
Switching to a strong sense of hatred and disgust
So, this video...
Let's talk about idealization.
And the psychological mechanism of belittling
I will put this video in
The list of "Psychology and Education"
If you have any requests to contact me
Topics for discussion and consultation
You can contact me via email to make an appointment.
But before we discuss this mechanism...
I'd like to start by giving a very common example.
A boy who had experienced domestic violence and bullying
I met a girl from another workplace.
When the girl said to him
When expressing boredom with the workplace
He felt the girl's kindness
And being envied in real life
Innocence and victimhood
So the boy felt a strong urge to help the girl.
However, although the girl complained about how difficult the job was...
However, there was no mention of promotion and
Is the desire for fame and fortune so strong?
He did not accept his help.
Most of the responses were just polite.
When girls mention their hobbies
Or other life events
Boys also apply girls' characteristics to
That traditional script of "talented but envied"
And respond to the other party in this way
Moreover, they felt that they understood each other.
I believe everyone can feel
There is actually a serious misunderstanding here.
Because the boy himself had experienced extreme feelings of powerlessness
He felt for those who were also in distress.
With strong sympathy
And hope to save the other party
However
A person is fixated on this savior narrative
In principle, he could actually get help from many people.
I see similar things in all my life stories.
And feel the resonance of the soul.
Because each of us actually has more or less
Some are underestimated, belittled, and disliked by others.
And moments of pain because of this
But this projection is different from the real
There is a great distance between soul resonance and reality.
Due to the lack of a foundation in reality
Emotional resonance in interaction
Their relationship naturally struggled to progress.
So the boy gave it to the girl.
A rather expensive gift
Trying to express one's blessings and build closer relationships
However, after the girl received the gift
Just a polite reply
But they didn't show much enthusiasm.
after a while
When the boy tried to ask the girl out again
The girl politely declined.
This made the boy feel extremely sad, wronged, and upset.
So the boy began to suspect
Does this girl have many suitors?
There are plenty of gifts
So they complained that the gift I gave them was too cheap.
And they look down on me?
The more he thought about it, the angrier and more dissatisfied he became.
Of course, objectively speaking
This girl's actions were very inappropriate.
If there is no desire for further interaction
Easily accepting expensive gifts from the opposite sex
This could cause serious misunderstandings for the other party.
The anger experienced by boys
Of course, it is also very real.
He was treated roughly and looked down upon in his early years.
The traumatic experience was completely activated.
However, if we look at it from a psychological dynamics perspective...
The boy's change in mindset here demonstrates a
A classic shift from "idealization to denigration".
He initially felt that the girl was both innocent and cute.
He felt a strong liking and protective instinct towards this girl.
There was even an impulse to sacrifice oneself.
However, in an instant
The girl's image was then reversed into a
Snobbish, arrogant, cold-hearted, and contemptuous bad woman
Why the same person?
In his eyes, can an angel instantly turn into a devil?
Why do people's views and perceptions of others...
How can it oscillate so easily between two extremes?
We need to introduce a concept from psychoanalysis
object constancy
The so-called object
It is a concept relative to our self.
We can understand the object
For others or the outside world
In the normal process of psychological development
Children will gradually develop a bond with their mother, or rather...
The caregiver's good and bad experiences are integrated together
For example, my mother who gently comforted me.
And that mother who got angry with me because she was tired
Actually, it's the same complete
A real person who has both advantages and limitations
When children are able to build up their inner world
When such a complete object image
This signifies that they have acquired object constancy.
People who possess object constancy
In intimate relationships in adulthood
Able to withstand real interpersonal relationships
Frustration and disappointment from interaction
Because they have a sense of certainty in their hearts.
Although sometimes I show the other person
The shadow side was unexpected and surprising.
But I will try to do what I originally did.
Modify based on the other party's opinion
Attempting to incorporate new phenomena into existing knowledge
Instead of completely overturning one's understanding of the other party.
The other person felt like an unpredictable devil.
This cognitive constancy and stability
It is actually extremely important to us.
For example, in primitive society
Humans find nature extremely mysterious.
unpredictable
Take water as an example.
Nature will soon send down sweet rain that nourishes all things.
Then a flood erupted, engulfing everything.
It can be described as absolutely unpredictable.
This extreme unpredictability
It will instill a lasting fear in people's hearts.
To soothe this fear
People are curious about this mysterious and unpredictable thing
It also possesses immense power.
Various primitive religions were created.
That is, to give this mysterious power
Personification as river gods, water gods, etc.
However, with the advancement of science
Human understanding of water has reached the molecular level.
This is a fairly stable property.
We know
Regardless of the form of water
They all have some relatively unchanging properties.
This grasp of stability
It greatly liberated our minds
We are no longer constantly in a position of...
Amidst the fear of unknown forces
Of course, science is still developing.
Our relationship with water or the material world
There is still unlimited room for improvement in cognition.
But this future progress must be in…
Fine-tuning and deepening based on the original foundation
Instead of focusing on things every day
Cognition undergoes extreme subversion and upheaval.
I thought he was extremely good.
Extremely bad in a moment
This is the same as getting to know a specific person.
To give a very simple example
I observed that someone was very happy today.
But I cannot define him hastily.
He is essentially a happy person.
Because no one is happy every day.
Happiness is simply because he is in a certain situation
Emotional state in a specific time and space
If one day
You noticed he was very unhappy.
Even somewhat gloomy
For a person who lacks object permanence
This apparent change is incredible.
They might think this person
The essence has undergone a huge upheaval.
But in reality
The other party's essence has not changed at all.
Because whether one is happy or not is not inherent to human nature.
We should seek something beyond happiness and...
To understand the other person using concepts beyond just being unhappy
However
For individuals who grew up in an insecure environment
The experience of a good or bad object is difficult to integrate.
Facing abusive parents
Children may develop split personality or primitive idealization.
These primitive psychological defense mechanisms are used to protect oneself.
So-called division
It refers to the attitude of the parties involved towards the same person.
From one extreme to another
And the parties involved at each stage
Everyone was immersed in it
I can't feel the contradiction between these two states.
In early childhood, children may associate abusive parents with occasional...
magnify the good aspects of yourself infinitely
This is precisely a kind of "primitive idealization".
If children realize that their parents have
Hate and loathe one's own side
The child will feel immense despair
To survive
Children must be forced to idealize their parents.
A strong desire to merge with parents
And the terrible parents
The dark side is then projected onto the outside world.
Through this series of mechanisms
The child was able to temporarily regain his inner balance.
But the cost is that children may...
hostile to the outside world
This reminds me of a female friend.
She had a family member who abused her since childhood.
Father and mentally unstable mother
Even after growing up, she still identified with her father.
But he harbors a deep hatred for Japan.
And she firmly believes that Japan...
A hidden army in China
It could destroy and subvert Chinese society at any time.
In reality, this army is the embodiment of an abusive father.
When children grow up
Possessing independent survival ability
And begin to enter into an intimate relationship
The attachment system that was suppressed in early years was fully activated.
And intimate relationships became what he used to...
A container for resolving early core conflicts
At this time, due to a lack of love
He has a strong need for integration.
To put one's ideal parents
Extremely eager to transfer to his partner
And they expect their partners to unconditionally satisfy their needs.
However, he did not actually see the other party's presence.
He has more of a desire for the other party
Personality, interests, hobbies, thoughts
They all lacked further curiosity and interest.
Instead, they hastily label the other party.
A conclusion
Trying to use only a small amount of information
To include the other party in oneself
Within that idealized framework
Because no one fits this label
Therefore, his idealism
Illusions are easily shattered.
When he discovered that the other person did not meet his fantasies
The accumulated negative experiences from bad parents in early childhood
Rage and hatred then poured out.
This is certainly a very bad situation.
However, during adolescence or early adulthood
This paranoid and schizophrenic trait is sometimes masked.
The extreme black-and-white thinking of the parties involved
Intense love and hate with clear distinction
It is often mistaken for a personality trait.
The charm of loving and hating fiercely
And habitually bear contradictions and complexities
People who have more self-examination
It is more likely to be filled with doubt, confusion, and introspection.
Therefore, in those who take great ups and downs and
Crazy is seen as romantic by people
It doesn't seem that cool.
But true maturity requires precisely this.
Tolerating those shades of gray and complexities
Next video
Let's talk about a counterintuitive topic.
Why is repression a form of...?
A highly advanced psychological mechanism
However, I would like to emphasize one point in the end.
Today we will discuss idealization and devaluation.
It's not to provide everyone with a...
Tools for diagnosing problems with exes or yourself
Some friends may feel worried
If you are in a relationship that has broken down
I really felt extremely intense feelings towards the other person.
Even the hatred and belittling of the other party that want to destroy them.
Has it already fallen into a pathological state?
What I want to say is
Regardless of what you experience in your heart
What extreme hatred and disillusionment!
As long as you are still trying to describe it in words
As long as you are still trying to confide in others
Or analyze the source of this hatred.
Instead of resorting to destructive actions
That means you are healthy and mature.
That's all for today's video.
If you have any questions
You have questions and would like to discuss them with me.
Just contact me via email.
For example, you want to discuss a certain article with me.
A certain quote, a certain video, a certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
Or you would like to discuss your...
Life experiences, confusion, and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions regarding payment and communication methods
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you are unable to pay or become a member
Please also contact me
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will put this video in
The list of "Psychology and Education"
I also recommend everyone to check out my videos.
Other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!