Everyone, today, I want from a question First-Chi-Leworthy-year-old Aux-Chi-Yearer's "What-go to lay down to live in thousands of people's in thousands of people's and in a huge-fino of hound-a-hung-hung-a-tall We're from the Cuan-Chyl we've seen the answer 8th. On 8th. On the social network started a long 10-minute 45-mial the video a in a in a many people were two two days it is 8th The Sichuan Yangoist's police published call called by the daughter 14-year and the fact the child and the people from 13 to 15 18% 18% the police the and and the and the other people who's and the law, and the people, and care, and the people, many people, that much, " "What, I'mann, this-truly-trial,.'"-You-Nobaned,.............,,,,,,,, the, and, "..,.,.,.,.,,,., and,......, and, "............................................... The court's on the day, which is 8th. 5th, thousands of people, young people, to the country, to counteringing, they only had a few people, a few people, they're only one subcule, is for the But they're the not the not is the government and the government and not the continue the end of getting and they keep and attack the attack and and power and force and strength and it's soon this case is like a quixing and set out of the country and it's a problem and it's one of the question to be able to power to be able to because because government city and the under and each not young and the people being 72 hours, to end up to the entire society's and the strong-the-control the power of in 24-hour in a so that a full-nour-the-cern in. The country China's in control the power, effect, and a single, can't can't block the "tere any This is a form and on top-of-the-sure-heed-the-go-mom-go-controls to the strong-tare-control-know-power-cound-control, but the "Islii'n't, the right-just-te-cun-con-work, and to-beck, and to-ing-con-cru-work, these special-noy-nown-knly, is its'-sto-oign-old-back. will by the Bariang's event and will bea and way to show the the law the law is how each one and co-e-e-e-hound the shir- and the the people to the people should be the school was it's the life's the But in China's In other places, the school's logic by a way-one by a way-one to be a strong-e-e-e-e-e happening the school first is the not the student-the-sure to the school's-so-sum- to the end-e-e-e The kids' of all the Andes'an is not important the school's the Mian's and law-sies'mean's, and their, and their own-to and the And the last When by B'A-Ling to students'caut when you're the attitude often is Seishning-N-Man-the-Shal and shi-h-shah-she-h-ha-l. Use Pee-Ping "Coing "Touching like the students' parents, let them seerile. This sort of a form is, it basically is a sort of lanker, is a sort of a lot of it. He gave school students' to send out, your boughing will have very much more than what. He gave students' transmit to signal is, you're This one, the school's as in a way of the way to be the first-seeing-the-ta, it is the first-down-front-fetching of tantar. When the jailed, there's been around on the ground saw-hue-hurt, were is the police, they were to get-up to protect the people, should be able to people, if there, if there are people and people, like the local and the country, and the being, it's fern- by the person, to the people, and they're being, and make, I'm, and say, he's, and, and so-choo-choo-st-stabou The event may just at 8th 4th, but the general not the general not so and there did you do it they're they're doing the state the general whole being so being to do that people and not of the country, and the other-ge-governmen of their country and all-gy-government-christ, because they're not the people who are not-buy-scient-fews they're not-either, they're on-ge-ren-ming-the-s just need-to-the-sha-work. Their work all around one-the-her-hearer is "Wei-Wen." and not not sure so much a lot of a one of avert one of the one, you're really doing really really much and he can't make much and it not to make sure their their their work their their work The police just had a three-phing-bishop-bathed, but ching-mial-denshue, just the call it caused a strong-nour. Few-fent-fent-finoed to the young-o-sci-men go-so-hack-neur-hulled to make-hury-hurt, with Chinese-cure-kind, with song, and Mao-Rucii-one, to say, to say, to say-fent. The local government can in all the foreign parties are lankedonged, but never can't launceng, never can hughn't hosn't is wey-wunned. When a each and chis-an-an-can, in-haw-to-concuit-concuit, end-washed-en-court-exec, the police-oan-counter and the general chet-won-o-estab-to-the-concuit-estab, to quickly pingsy state. They soon-in-in-loop system to get them anpike the real character. They're using ginkoen, Cui-Lewa-Wars, shor, curses, counter-e-en-cony-en-cony-en. This is their work to the strong-tong-stong. To-li-wey-ting-an, it's-o-o-li-and, even is-co-o-wed-wed-wed-wed-wed-wed-court. 4 hours, the police will be sent out of the country. This is the control of the ability, y'all-incent to the world. But, the police can use a strong-drawn-con-concuit, but they can't even piquet the people's anger, but they can't at least pincis the Incaux of Ingen-Theirn's In fact-Cond-Rour-Git-Rour-Git-Leghack-Tor-Cit-Leghru-C-R-E-Rour-T-Lie-N-Best. The people are not-Mas-Mas-PoMENT, the government-Cack-Cound, and more-C-Cy-Rour-D-RUW-T-E-LIN. from school, and the government, is the "Chang-Constri-Lie-Lie-Lingtie-Lie-LIN-TALs on the Y-Wan' At the MOUTHORN, it's, the "Torliecturn",""""" "What-Tenians' "Pobey"" "...theircernian's "obey"vail" "obey"vail" Law to the 1.5% quite room, make the evil-in-in-appellers can't-as– can't-a-tall-tort, and the fact-e is the end-to-estab-est, this actually is to be the human-seaw-hoy-sher, rather, pean-tant seabou. In the violent and in the taxing and the and protect to be two or one and two and two and two can't separate un-and chunging to make that's what and it's being right and not even if I'ma. Thank you. There is one said the crime is not an but the point this one particular a certain quite because because people not people people and the people and people were more than than than than should have law law that means that should and that Although, the state of the state of 18% the end up under the end up to 12 years, but in the law in the actual due to security and that a because because from school to the and the people, work people, all not in not support not not in the not on the And each one or less than, in the inhumed, ill-annied-of-annibalized, even in pitying, due to beaute, let the people think that the lawy's like the When a short self-beau-buy-sure-know-nly-synchew-ts-syned-sufficient, by the poor-de-scient-old, it's very easy to instaed public-being and in social-medity, in social-medity, in 80s, screen, quite-fant-transpbore, let people can be the most-sac-cruan, in the same-cru-cru-stern-cru-sting. This sort-churn-stitch-ly-reper-word-word-word-word. the FAPFIA's feelings will quickly translate to a few-eas-heed-eat-eat-a-eague and People's "Eightean""chievous"t of """tivarer///////-Gewortheat""cuit—heaval-quit-quois–toeuts-hean-quieter-te-ty-sheok-she-sua-law-te – and to beckhury-kind-kind-she-shruly and—and-cind-kind-win-win-kind-win-knit-so to-lap. There are a right, there is, have been, and have full of law-lawful, no-the-the-lawful, people just can't-z-zoned-dink-to-s live in the fawry in fencing in this society, in a bar-ling event, the school and the police if you're not down, the people would think to thespoters can have a bea-being, it's going to be a good-day, or two-day, or two-day. This this one thing, it doesn't even if it's goodly it's true to find in the people to the people's thecum and the society un-cuh-regn's-the-sou-conged, this one-conn-segmented general all kinds of true, you don't know, it's-the-as-gen- all is really the people in the people in the human-shring in the human-of-scent-to- to the people who. They're afraid, afraid their kids not only shoo at on the and also also in the whole-st-the-calf- and and being and the and so-chee-ya- and so-b-n-e and so-b-n-o-sum. The people, of course, will put, my own-roup, and fear- and fendment take-ro- in-the-cann in the case-in-down- in-cue. For you unctu-wis of people are In other, the children is their big-tably. The child's their own the end of even is the only way the child. One is young, was a child, after being being due to people, will make all the people have got strong deep-the- daughter can't get-a- If I'm my kids all-to-the- what can't This one of the way of the people from the on the one's down, go on the street, to, and, out of their own, to say, out of their own own, and out of their unment. In the counter-y-in-room, there was a woman, there was a woman, They are The Conteer's just Thee Conteer to A. Ony, In fact, A. One of the Onee The one They're Because of their Their own And they're The same Thee "Aiiqe' His man-o-o-tonged to, with his body to protect on his man-o-saint-in on his friend. From these images, from these sounds, we see what we're seeing the the most-goyed, the most-boyed human-shing-sin, is human-the-law-sin, is the "errower-be-be-buhrer's-be-hought-o-hocet. In these be-cru-sand-be-o-dda-ppot-pot-pot-pot-pot-pore-sson. We've seen not yet yet. That is I can't the Jiang-o-Ming to be people to It's to see you a very young to be young people to make the women's and the little and he down and in all the people all people and in hushed and chund the shan the country that's she chan chate the whole the social the country chate the the whole Chinese online This is the "Fentrored-Theirneporting of the control" in the power-took-tall-haw-law-howed-the-quen-crund "ephought-be-convend-bent of "What-the-churned' '109....all-a App...to-oble-a-pun-cunctroup-sign-n, 'Cocian-Cone-stst-sciing, and "What-eat." Bá'A Ling is not the people's non-year-men to be a single-of-eared it can happen in any a country, any other a place. The question is the government is how to how to the law, how to how to how to the work, in the work in the way, to prevent I've in Texas, I've lived 20 years, know-in some of the and some of the current and the case in the war, facting the in Deux's a new one a year's "Deux people also self-toe, "toucher take up and and the back the power-the- "tere These shis-bao, men-the-sue, grue, the jury-pub, misconduct, and the the way-ten-of-te-of-ting-sen-pans, and-the-certained-and– seeing. When-any-en-en-law, there's people, and the people, but there will have fenn-o-cun-the-court-cuit, because to get-eget-wind-the-lo-cine not-the-clet-cuit, and at school, in-the-cass-catch, in-ccich-cuit, and Zhou Yi-Hoy. every department do you have a heavy and can do you a type a type can't can't be playbook at Duxassus because law and the way not the way human the by the the put and the crime the court the unct being not being there no many being being not more than the on being and being on b' and the the Dekas'i's The Anti-Balding Fahsing has a name of David's law, the way of this name name-ton is a time is a time a-s-b-e tragedy of 2008, 2016 1-1-4 D'O. D'Zon, N.A. is a main 16-year-old student-G David Mollack because because saw on-s being in the pain in the suffering in In David's in the last time, his parents had had asked to help in school to stop some of bullying, but when on the "What-uping' at DuxaSarses is a lawy, is a lawy, even in part of the time of the the students, but because because "Onxia'bott'n't not in the school's "o'un'gowning "'Chiefs'calf' "'in'a' class'e' "'in'a'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i' David's after two-south his father with his father and so court and make sure law and not to prevent her and he defy david's back-and- abing and got the and did all the council council in in seven on year and and the and the and named by david's law david's law david's law the davis law 2017 in the 2017-5thewy. The U.S.E.R.E.C.9. In 2017, in 6th, D.S.A.S.R.O.Z. In the law on the law on sign-seh, "Dade.W.E.W.2. law, the fact, the, by the people, "o'Eacheworthe manned from "Teworthe", "'Quoertent to the "'What-o-Lodoo-Lead.'" for police, gettrak, law and school, to attack up, and down, and down, and to bea, and, and, has a good weapon. He has given a few key. The first point is, he do not, school's gone to-go, this law law law-dunquote, soothe-school, to The second point is he by on the line-pawing, the person is the person's can call-ins, the police can lead-and, like the court-and-sign-transing to get-kekeye-n't-nigh-the-number-the-knob-combed-cass-cash-de-cure-thing-knit-mail. The third point is He's self-gern law-greens and use should be in human and law-sign-establish to get-in leave, letting 8-Ling students dis-shut-e their information to stop their end-shing and at near-sac-est- people In the way of the law, DeVos' every school should build nidiming, "Barling's way'1stead"1st5pdhinct way "Itan'all'hs'hs'hue' """"dhawks'hury' "t'hawks'haw'hs'hs'hack' 't'haw'hs'hers' "Chair''''" At the school should be right start this is the law and the must be the law and the school not the school can draw-in-tru-tru- the choice the school the process every one all you have have been have been there are to be the jury will find out of the students, get-earned, student-gen-gen-of-wit, to send-it, and such a "ogean, "isn"hack"""" "Torchurching "T.'" Theftsuffin' "Theircourt"court"tse""court." "Theircourt""t's "oct","" "...it"" "...they" "...theircourt" "...theircertained" "...that," "...theircone" "...the "Suches" "...theircett." The Diao-tashed If you're If I've been Abolene and the school has been fulled tool of the faculty to make to make sure children From the most the end of the end up to the school to end-shue and then cut to all the school in the all line and you The law is to protect students. The one one's one one's one's under the student of student to be in student's if a school can't be a unlaw can be the law to the school and the school should and be used with Like many Zhou's school like D. The school also also very much important children education and social and emotional learning and CENTEN SEL education education education and and to learn and To some to be used people The school not just is publicing and it and then through the non-man televised and they make their people their own their things and their and they also also and so that it's taking and then that's being being dishinging misis faith and soxing people because of the people's without the school will have people will be about and The police, getta, and the court, the general is the young court, will be used on the same in the case in the whole case the process in the whole group all the community, is a public publiced, and it's Out of the question, students and all know should go to who should what do what can't do, can't how long time in how much the result. This system would not like people like quite yet, so it's so much but it's at the most degree of the end up the that's and the human human people and the people and The United All over a country have a state and there are a part in many not not with the the power the Dksa's government can can't can't and not control Zhou government and every nation, the city, in order, and the community, poor-er-law, so-the-law, the state-ofsue not in control people, but it's used in the public-sue, and it's in the people, the public-su-coup, these and these and these private-st-li--in-o- From the central to the different, the government's logic, is "Condition." The entire system's the main goal is "Whating.'" From school to the local government, all of the state's government, all of the state's "Wonding'"This great power""to be able to social energy-eat-one-controls, can go to social and create great resources, and in a long time in a new-dial-down, and But this system in taking public service, to give them, and reing people and public-so-cho and, the professional control, is quite as well and so-so-do, and yet kind of deep-so, and even with the and it's by-do-er--ach- Jiangya 8-10s in inbound in the court and people are not going to do not be it down the same, it's un-o-chings-dem, no-one-mey-one-may-one and people who, when he in-bowed yulun, incathed, in-backed, against, then it would be being done-in-to- be forced-ent-o-o-wintered and-in-kind- As to the Bahrine Situ is the Is it right? There are there is not law law, can't the people's is not true and the important the issues, the most need to question, at the law there's unful too and it is there's no one still who we control human and the end of who In the same-o-tide-the-the-state, China will beailles' law, not-weigh-the-Vos. If the DaVeyn ab-N-in-cient in China, their parents'n't no-eer can go-so- no-fong-fonged-court, no-cuit-court-be no-cann-cuit, lost-the-court-court-a-court. Hear-T, they're-n't-he, on-the-coup-ppings, can be the police-clet, by d'-cest, and by d'-ecky-stack. Zhou and foo-er-fus, and all-fus, this is who seemed a great-de-chang-be-hawand. People, of course, why. So, to the end, what, in the United, China, and the U.S. and Dek-Sas-the-Rexha city, is run-of-sach-a-mach-but-tonged two-so-suit-systems. In Deksaas, from the school to sent-jee-fah-fahsha, sheriff, to sent-cant-cant-cant-fah-catch-cant-faw-in, to Zhou Yi-Hoyehoy, to Zhou-e-Hu-Chai-Wong-Gentzsachian, and Zhou-Su-Southsuit-Vaw-Vas-Go-Pewscent-in-o, all-vety-town-chchun-to. You, by the children-the-fews, Their job, their their their job, their career and their career senior and their own own people, the vote, is Duxa's state system's the end-dye-ma. This is the why. The same young people Barring's in two different system in two different different different different different different different different and the end-the- In the future, in the future will continue on their social system run. In the software system on the app can't will show and it will be able, but it's the actual the original data-mars not being the bays, the bays should end, it's will be going to "Potong people, "'Puonged "'potan, "'pongue-saint, "'as-we-all-a-oh-as-as-o' "'the-pani-cured-one-sort, "'what, what? "'Boh-walled. "'Their-oh-oh-should-all-hout-oh-hally, "'how-oh-hout-oh-he-hought-he-oh-lied. "'It can't even, 'toh-lid.' though crue and it's and we're not really the mother that's that's that's not the not the system that you and you know and how to help to make to how to how how the today talking said again I'm going I'm Thank you.