(音樂)大家現在看到的這些搞笑畫面來自一場被譽為人類史上首個人型機器人馬拉松的比賽於4月19號在北京舉辦  Of course, besides the noise of the noise, there are also patriots who say that everything starts with difficulty. Any new technology must experience the process of questioning, arguing, and First, let's have a look at the details of this game This is a half-distance marathon, a total of 21 kilometers But in fact, these robots are not self-driving Most of them are completed through remote control We can also see from the video The rules of the game allow each robot to wear three running gear One remote control, one gear, one power In addition to the remote control mode, there is also the water-following mode. For example, the first place in this competition, the machine in Beijing Tian Gong uses the water-following mode. In other words, there is actually a person running three to five meters ahead. The machine follows the QR code or identification mark on it through vision. In addition to the three team, the rules also allow the wireless battery replacement You can even change a new robot to go up and continue the remaining journey after the robot is broken But the robot needs to be punished for 10 minutes In addition to the funny scenes we saw in the video Even some of the machine who crossed the finish line the situation is also very bad For example, the machine often falls Some of the machine's staff need to tighten the screws and do the cooling We can see the bottle of cooling liquid on the side of the track 有些網友就開玩笑說這些機器人不僅沒有取代人類的工作反而還創造了一些新的工作崗位有人說發現了一個重大的新行業機器人陪護服務 But even so, only 6 robots passed the final stage in the 20th team More than half of them didn't even finish the half way The 6th robot replaced 5 robots in the game It took 5 hours and 27 minutes in total The best result for human players is 57 minutes in 2 hours (Music) This is the sea of stars in the lab Hit the wall of the railway on the way to the city Well, in the comment section below this video The patriots quarreled with the questioned party The questioned party said Isn't this a scam? Every day, the Chinese machine is blown to the sky The result is like this 建制派就說當年火車也跑得比馬車慢不要小看中國人實話說我的心情是有點矛盾的因為我也同意科技的發展有個過程我們不應該去嘲笑那些願意去嘗試和挑戰困難的人 But at the same time, I also understand why so many people are very happy to mock the big anti-corruption of this robot I think this is actually a kind of anti-corruption People are in a hurry to mock because they have been fed up with the atmosphere of the whole Chinese society every day in the past ten years Every industry, like new energy car, 3 fold mobile phone, artificial intelligence The mouth is the world's leading The nose is the American tremor The world is shocked But most of them are self-harm against the facts Usually you can brag as much as you like Many people just don't want to argue with Little Pink in the comment section But occasionally, when the car crash like this is clearly shown in front of people People who are usually addicted to bragging Of course, they should take the opportunity to say a few more words If the whole network atmosphere is objective Not looking back Then when the robot marathon turns over Maybe everyone will have more tolerance Indeed, we should be willing to give to those who are brave to fail on the path of technological development. I believe that these company staff who participated in the competition must have seen the video of the Boston Power Machinery. They also know that their machines are very powerful. So they still dare to take out the machines of this level to participate in the competition. I admire their courage. I think they are not wrong to participate in the competition They are now being criticized as the victims of the war, pink and Yao Yao leading party who are usually arrogant and angry If you say that the companies and the country are the ones who are pushing themselves then everyone's anti-rebellion mentality may not be so strong The biggest problem is actually the official media For example, this time the robot marathon You go to see the official media such as People's Daily and the Communist Youth League That's a fake The title of People's Daily is The sky rushes to win the championship The world's first humanoid robot horse is too hot 通篇都是假大空什麼馬拉松選手與機器人一同從炮童花下通過如夢如幻什麼未來已來我們真切的感受到人機共生已經從科幻概念跑進了人類的生活這就是如夢如幻這就是未來已來 其實你想要報導比賽那為數不多的亮點也沒問題但問題是他們對於現場出現的各種狀況一句話都沒有提對於20支隊伍當中只有6支越過終點支字未提這是哪門子新聞報導所以說中國根本沒有媒體機構只有宣傳機器 This is why I don't think there is any problem with everyone's cold-shaking If China's official media can report China's shortcomings objectively and fairly People won't just give you cold water as soon as they get a chance This is a normal anti-rebellion mentality Just like there are often small pink in my comment section Why don't you ever say that China is good Is China a good country? 當然不是一無是處我如果不喜歡中國就不會在上海待了15年但你想看誇讚中國的內容新聞聯播和人民日報天天都有所有的好處都被他們說完了總得有人批評指正吧既然中國媒體是沒有任何一丁點批評聲音的那就由我們來填補 So now the public is also in the same mood about the hype of this game. The benefits are all finished by your official media and patriotic fans. Now you turn the car, can't I make a few fanciful words? In addition to this bragging fanfare, everyone also hates the exaggerated propaganda of these Chinese technology companies. Sometimes even false propaganda. For example, Chinese new energy car company Always bragging about its intelligent driving at the new car launch How advanced Obviously, it is a supporting driver Must create a bunch of new words What intelligent driving Obviously, it is L2 level Must be legally said that what is L2.5 L2.999 尤其是華為的余承東、余大嘴和未來的利賓天天都是遙遙領先天下無敵保世界的工廠肯定比不上江淮的工廠你們不要去覺得我說的胡說八道他有的我都有 我都會我有的他都不會 最有什麼呢不謙虛的說 Huawei AD3.0 is the most powerful and safe autonomous driving system in the world. I drive my car every day, and it is a real pleasure to drive. I can work on the road, and I can send messages and do anything without disturbing my work. Artificial intelligence and robots are the same Cursing every day Here we have to talk about Now the most popular robot company in China Yushu Technology Have you heard of Yushu Machines? It was performed at this year's Spring Festival Gala New York, and it was popular overnight 春晚之後哇 各路愛國大V那是真的把語速國產機器人吹上了天什麼外國人崩不住啦讓西方破防啦表面文藝病實際尖刀連什麼五角大樓連夜開會 當然了這個時候怎麼能少得了著名愛國表演藝術家伊莎比 Because I always thought that his handkerchief was fixed on his hand I didn't expect that the middle guy was all thrown into the air And all the robots are all accurately thrown out from which point And from which point to catch No mistake Throwing handkerchiefs are so accurate What will happen to the hand grenade You know these actions It's much harder than throwing a hand grenade and a wind gun Because the handkerchief is a flexible non-stiff body 運動軌跡不可預測還會受空氣阻力影響到處飄所以這需要機器人通過3D視覺傳感器隨時捕捉並測算運動軌跡而與數為奇機器人能對手卷飄動方向進行毫米級定位所以手卷沒有一個偏離預期路徑的其實他還吹了很多我不想噁心大家就不播了但其實這個扔手卷的事早就被人揭露其實是有機關的顯得超過了眾議家書裡 如果我們0.5倍慢範可以清晰的看到首怕中間有被向下拖出來的跡象所以你看到嗎又愛造假又愛吹牛你翻車的時候大家能不幸災樂禍嗎 你可能要問了誒 對喔 宇宙機器人那麼牛這次馬拉松比賽成績如何呀這個我們等一下再說宇宙科技趁著春晚之後的爆火開始在京東平台售賣他們的機器人最便宜的一款9.9萬元最貴的65萬元 Since they started selling products, U-sus also started to release a series of official promotional videos These videos are really exciting I guess the five-legged building will have a meeting again tonight 賣家秀沒問題啊但你急著賣產品的問題就是你沒辦法阻止別人發布買家秀這是一些人把宇宙機器人買回家之後的情況花十萬塊錢買的宇宙機器人到貨第二天第二次使用摔了而且摔壞了正好當做抗摔側是吧我天讓你坐下這這凳子在你後邊呢沒在你前面 Squat, he can squat L1+ Squat Good boy (I'm sorry) Let him squat Why is this still a rule? (Hahaha) Come on, two people Come on Just record it Come on He's here Come on OK, put your feet up It's not easy to get out of the door The dog who has been sick for almost a month Finally got the goods (Oh) Why is it so hard to get up? (笑)所以就有很多人質疑了宇宙官方宣傳片造假懷疑是電腦做的動畫 這點我可以來告訴大家其實呢 語速的視頻不一定就是電腦動畫做的大概率是真的 後期頂多是有一點小的修復那為什麼賣家秀和買家秀會有如此巨大的差異呢 Actually, videos like the video of the rain tree are videos taken in their own closed environment The American Boston motivation was already there 10 years ago In fact, this kind of action is all to be a fixed task to set the training In other words, for this action To train tens of thousands or even tens of thousands of times with AI We see the robot doing such a beautiful action We will imagine that the robot can do anything But in fact, this is just a fixed procedure Of course, this is not completely meaningless After all, it shows the ability of hardware For example, the joints of this robot can be moved like this But that's all So the thing that the buyer spent more than 200,000 to buy back is actually just a trick with a very simple remote control program So this time the marathon competition is live in an open environment It's actually a very good time to shine and shine Can the Yushu robot work? Actually, watching videos in the village or the studio is meaningless. There is a Chinese saying, "It's a snail, it's a horse, pull it out and walk around." But the result is more disappointing. It's expected. Yushu directly chose not to participate in the competition. The reason for Yushu is that they have a lot of things to do recently, and are not free to participate. However, a company bought a machine with a rain tree and took the machine to the competition The result is like this The rain tree was scared and quickly came out to clear the relationship They said that machines are similar to other electronic products Under the situation of different people operating or developing The performance of the machine is very different One sentence is Our machine is no problem They don't know how to use it themselves Actually, as the most famous robot company in China, I can understand that it is a smart decision not to participate in the competition. Because if you don't participate, you can still say that you are the number one. If you participate, you may accidentally show your feet. The risk is too high. Okay, besides the opposite, the second reason why the public is in a rage is because everyone knows that as long as the state wants to promote the development of some industry, a lot of fraudulent companies will be attracted. For example, in the past 10 years, Xi Jinping's chip state fund has invested more than 6,800 billion yuan in three期累計 The result is that a bunch of insurance companies have cheated a lot of subsidies In the past 10 years, not only did not have any results to take out, but also turned into a serious corruption case 芯片國家大基金的7位創始人當中有6人因為貪污腐敗而落馬本來吧在一個市場經濟當中企業要研發什麼發展什麼是資本和市場的自由所以如果民間資本想搞機器人馬拉松大賽就去搞沒問題 但中国不是真正的市场经济尤其是习近平相信市场应该是由党来指明方向的所谓的政府补贴其实就是用纳税人的钱去补贴企业那么芯片大基金烂尾机器人遥遥领先吹了几年结果第一次拿出来展示甚至比小孩子的玩具都不如那么大家心里就想了 You use my tax money to subsidize And you end up with a pile of industrial garbage That must be unpleasant Can't you just let people scold a few words? Okay, this is a video from Lao Zhou Finally, I want to talk about some dry goods I think there is a question that is very worth discussing That is, at this stage Investing so much human resources to develop human-shaped robots Is it meaningful? 知识者认为,人形机器人可以更方便地在很多适合人的工作场景当中工作在情感上也更容易被人类接受但说实话,其实意义不大在当前的技术条件下,人形机器人是一场资本泡沫是一种美苦硬吃的资源浪费 请留意了我这里特指的是人形机器人不是在说人工智能或有特定用途的机器人现在几乎所有人形机器人的研发企业都在做姿态控制的研发也就是试图让机器人模仿人类的动作但是从实用角度上来讲机器人根本不需要模仿人类的外形在很多情况下人类形态的机器甚至可能是最差的选择之一 人類這個形態不管是工作還是戰鬥都沒有任何的優勢比如你讓一個人型機器人彎下腰去掃床底肯定沒有掃地機器人來得高效你想要一個高速移動的機器人兩條腿肯定沒有輪子來得快你用五根手指抓著工具還不如直接把工具裝到壁上三條腿比兩條腿重心穩得多等等等 These days, the patriots are always talking about the car accident in the comments section When the car just appeared, the driver was also laughing at him When the Wright brothers failed to develop the plane, people were also laughing at them But in fact, these comparisons are not correct Now we are doing human-type robot Just like when we invented cars We have to install four legs on the car To imitate horses Just like when we invented airplanes We have to make the wings of the plane Move like a bird Humanoid robots are not only practical, but also have huge and unnecessary technical difficulties. The posture control of two legs straight walking is extremely difficult. As long as you increase one support point for the robot, the difficulty will instantly drop by 90%. 另外很多人以为人型机器人现在的障碍是算法问题但其实并不是算法当然很重要但算法的前提是硬件要到位其实现在人型机器人所需要的硬件从电机芯片传感器到电池并不是好不好用的问题就算是距离能用都还有非常遥远的距离 For example, if a robot really wants to act independently, then every action, every step, needs to be calculated in real time. For example, how far is the next step? Where to step? How much effort? These judgments must be completed in a very short time. The current chip performance is simply not able to satisfy this high-speed accurate real-time calculation. And the battery This time the half marathon machine Each one is changed many times before the competition This is just the most basic straight forward action We all know that the real power consumption is intelligent computing Now these machines are not involved at all And batteries that can support the independent thinking and self-action of human-made robots The density of energy should be at least one level higher than now It still looks very far now Small and durable batteries It is also a problem that has been troubling the whole of mankind for decades Over the past ten years, China has invested its whole effort On new energy cars and batteries If it can be done Electric cars and mobile phones have been used for a long time 所以 總的來說人型機器人所依賴的各個部分所需要的硬件現在不是好不好用的問題基本都還遠沒有達到能用的程度超前去做個人型的外殼是沒有意義的也就是我上面說的美苦硬池 科技的目的是讓生活更美好搞機器人是為了更好的替代人類工作那麼在目前這個節點上專注的發展一些有針對性的智能機器人來服務特定的領域我認為更有意義 那為什麼現在那麼多企業依然在人型機器人這個方向前仆後繼呢?原因倒是非常簡單因為資本喜歡因為政府部門裡神批補貼的領導們喜歡人型機器人的外型帶有極大的科幻感容易激發投資人的想像空間能迅速吸引到政府補貼和風險投資 It's only been four months since this year. The cost of the humanoid robot race has reached more than 110 billion. The total cost of the robot race is almost close to 110 billion. In capital and fraudulent games, it's not necessarily about whether the robot is good or not. It just needs to look cool and technology. If you tell a good story, you can get the money. 好,我今天就分享到这里我是老周横眉冷对,直言不讳我们下期再见