If you want to know if someone really understands 
evolution, just ask them this one weird question.
Why does poop smell bad?
Oh.
Oh, gosh.
Because it has bacteria in it, I guess?
Microbiome, probably.
Trash-
Yeah, trash from the gut.
... of the body.
The food we eat?
Because of the chemicals?
Farts don't always smell bad.
Yeah. Well, that's a different question 
entirely. Do you think it objectively smells bad?
Yes, I think so.
Yes.
How do you think it smells to flies?
Like the fly?
Yeah-
They like it.
They love it.
They like it, yeah.
They love it.
Animals love stinky things.
Yeah.
They're attracted to it.
Poop smells good to flies because 
poop is full of nutrients.
They use it as food.
But it's also full of bacteria that 
can be life-threatening to humans.
So the real reason poop 
smells bad to us is because
if anyone ever thought it smelled good,
they would probably get really sick, 
die, and not pass on their genes.
After all, it's about survival of the fittest.
But survival of the fittest what?
I mean, most people think of natural selection  
as being about the survival of 
the fittest individual animal.
Individual.
Individuals.
Individual animal.
Animal. Okay, so it's like an individual.
Yeah.
Which makes sense.
I mean, individuals best adapted to their 
environment have increased odds of survival,
and therefore a higher likelihood 
of passing on their genes.
So it follows that each individual should do 
everything it can to survive and reproduce.
That is, it should be selfish.
But if that's true, then how do you explain this?
Worker bees will sting 
predators to protect the hive,
even though it might kill them in the process.
Female worker ants are sterile,
so they can't reproduce,
but regardless, they work for the colony 
for their entire lives until they die.
Monkeys adopt orphans, wolves bring 
meat to non-hunting members of the pack,
and squirrels can let out alarm calls 
to warn others about nearby predators.
So if natural selection is 
all about selfish individuals,
why do we observe so much altruism in nature?
The survival is of the species that can adapt.
I think generally the species.
For the survival of the species.
So it's the survival of the species.
Okay. Yeah, you're right.
Okay.
But survival of the fittest species or 
the fittest group also doesn't work.
I mean, think about what you need 
for natural selection to occur.
You need something that replicates 
itself many times over, creating copies,
and then you need a pruning process,
whereby some of those copies get eliminated and 
some thrive to go on and create more copies.
The problem with groups or species is that 
they don’t typically make copies of themselves.
So you almost never get copies of groups fighting  
other copies of groups to 
see which groups win out.
So if it's not survival of the fittest individual 
and it's not survival of the fittest group,
then what is it?
Well, to explain that, I want 
to take you on a little journey,
all the way back to the beginnings of the Earth.
Where we are now, there is nothing.
Well, not really nothing, but nothing interesting.
There are only simple things, like these blobs.
This one might be a carbon dioxide 
molecule, or it might be cyanide.
We don't know for sure what they are,
but we do know that these 
compounds are very simple.
So for now, they'll just be 
blobs floating around our void.
In fact, much of what we'll encounter 
along our journey here are just hypotheses.
A lot of Earth's early history is still a mystery,
so keep that in mind.
Now, every so often, our 
blobs get a surplus of energy,
maybe from a ray of UV light 
or a nearby hot source.
This is the first major upgrade 
to our void, excess energy,
as it allows our blobs to 
interact with each other.
And most of the time, this 
interaction leads to nothing,
but sometimes these blobs can combine 
into more complicated compounds. 
Here's a simple simulated example, 
where we only have four red blobs.
Right now, they are all individual particles, 
but each time step we move forward,
let's say there's a 10% chance that all 
four combine into one red mega-blob.
And now imagine this mega-blob isn't very stable.
For every time step it's alive,
it has a 95% chance of falling apart 
back into the four smaller blobs.
If we add more of these red blobs into the mix, 
you'll notice that they rarely ever come together.
On average, a mega-blob only 
exists around 10% of the time.
But if we were to reduce the chances of 
the mega-blobs dissolving to only 1%,
the void would suddenly be filled with them.
This fact hints at an important 
law that governs our void,
the law of stability.
Unstable blobs fall apart and 
vanish. Stable ones endure.
Now, watch what happens if we 
speed this up dramatically,
maybe a couple of years per second, 
maybe even a couple million.
You can see our blobs keep 
getting random jolts of energy,
so they combine with others to 
form more complex compounds.
Most attempts fail and fall 
apart, but every so often,
by pure chance,
you get a compound that is more 
stable than the blobs it's made of.
This doesn't happen because the blobs 
want to build more complex structures.
It's just because these new configurations 
happen to be more favorable in the environment.
And now when these complicated 
compounds become abundant enough,
they too get a chance to combine,
making our void increasingly complex.
And one day, by accident,
this causes an extremely unique shape to form,
one with a special property.
See, the blobs it's made of just happen to attract 
similar blobs from the surrounding environment.
This red blob always attracts green blobs,
and this purple blob always attracts yellow ones,
and piece by piece, all these 
blobs attract their opposites
until their counterparts suddenly snap 
into position next to the original shape.
Now, this shape goes on to do the same thing.
Its green blobs attract red ones
and yellow ones attract the purple until 
another shape yet again snaps into position.
This new shape looks exactly like the original.
What just happened fully 
spontaneously is replication.
One shape became two.
This marks the birth of the first replicator.
We don't know exactly what 
this replicator looked like.
It might've been a single standalone molecule  
or a group of molecules that 
worked together to replicate.
There's a lot of debate on this today,
so instead, let's represent 
the replicator as a character.
How about this one here?
Perfect.
Keep in mind it's still just a lifeless 
molecule, one without any intent or purpose.
Now, you might think that the chances for the 
replicator to form were extremely unlikely,
but in our void, where we have hundreds 
of millions of years to play with,
what might seem impossible to 
us becomes virtually inevitable.
And the thing is, the replicator 
only has to arise once.
Once it's here,
it can take the simpler compounds available in the 
environment to copy itself at a much faster pace.
And so it does that,
until it entirely fills our void.
At least, that's what you'd expect,
but there is a flaw in the process.
See, during the replicator's conquest of the void,
one of its copies makes a mistake.
Perhaps a stray ray of UV light hits 
it during the replication process,
or the replicator uses a building 
block it wasn't supposed to.
As a result, what we're left with is a new shape,
which is slightly different from its parent,
and so its properties might 
be slightly different too.
This error might be harmful.
For example, it might make the copy less stable.
It could be beneficial, making 
the copy better at replicating,
or it could be neutral,
not changing the replicator in any meaningful way.
This marks the final milestone in our void,
mutation.
Many species of replicators now occupy the void,
and what they do is they replicate themselves.
The problem is they all need 
the same limited resources,
and so our void turns into a battleground.
So which replicator will win? What 
kind of properties will the void favor?
Well, let's try to simulate what happens.
Now, if you’re looking to 
run your own simulations,
or need a place to run your own code
look no further than today’s sponsor — Hostinger.
Say you wanted to keep track 
of everyday science news.
Manually filtering through thousands of articles  
for the most important stories 
would be almost impossible!
But Hostinger lets you easily automate this.
You can use n8n, a platform 
that lets you automate tasks,
but you need a place to host it.
And the easiest, most price-effective and 
secure place to host n8n workflows is on  
a Virtual Private Server or VPS from Hostinger!
It’s like a powerful computer 
you rent on the cloud.
So here’s how you can create an article scrubber:
The workflow can grab every new 
science article from a list of portals.
Then, it can send the articles to 
Chat GPT to summarize their content.
And finally, you can add these quick 
summaries to a board in Notion.
Using Hostinger’s pre-installed n8n template,  
the setup only takes one click, and 
you’re good to start creating workflows.
By hosting n8n on a Hostinger VPS,  
you get all the resources needed to 
run your workflow smoothly, 24/7!
Plus, you can have unlimited 
workflows running simultaneously.
Imagine the things you could do and the time 
you can save with automations on Hostinger.
They’re having a Black Friday 
sale right now, so don’t miss out!
Scan this QR code or visit 
hostinger.com/veritasiumn8n  
and use the code VERITASIUM to get an 
extra discount on top of the sale prices!
Thanks to Hostinger for sponsoring this part 
of the video, and now back to our simulation.
To simulate what a replicator 
battle might look like,
let's assign simplified traits to each of 
the replicators, starting with the first one.
This replicator is special,
since it's the only one that can form 
spontaneously from smaller building blocks.
So we'll give it a spawn rate.
This should be quite rare,
so let's set the chance of 
formation to 1% per time step.
Just keep in mind we're just making these numbers 
up. The simulation is purely illustrative.
Now, once the replicator spawns,
let's say it's governed by three key traits.
First, a death rate,
the chance of it falling apart or 
being destroyed with each time step.
Let's set that to be, say, 2%.
Second, a replication rate,
the chance to copy itself with each time step.
Let's say 4%.
And finally, a mutation rate,
the chance a copy comes out mutated.
If it's 4%, roughly one in 
25 copies will be a mutation.
So every time a new mutation spawns,
it will inherit the replication death 
and mutation stats from its parent,
but slightly randomized.
Notice that we won't give any of these 
secondary replicators a spawn rate.
They'll only be able to form as 
mutations from previous generations.
So if all of their copies die 
out, they'll be gone for good.
Now, before we run the simulation,
I want to quickly shout out 
the YouTube channel Primer.
Our setup was inspired by his amazing 
in-depth simulations on evolutionary biology.
You should really check him out.
Okay, let's run it.
The graph on the right will 
show how the populations grow,
and this box on the left will 
show a slice of the void,
with all the winning replicators 
and the correct ratios.
You can see how the first replicator 
appears and then immediately disappears,
because it just happened to die 
before it got the chance to replicate.
But that's okay.
The original replicator can be created from 
smaller blobs, so it'll come back at some point.
This time, it's starting to take off.
You can also see that it spawns some 
mutations, but they're struggling to keep up.
Eventually, though, superior mutations pop up 
and start to replicate faster than the original.
But you can see almost all of them are 
growing exponentially, which is unrealistic.
That's because we're missing the 
final piece of our simulation,
limited resources.
The building blocks should eventually run out.
We can simulate this effect by introducing a sort  
of resource factor to each 
species' replication rate.
This factor should depend on the total 
number of replicators in the void, N,
which will also divide with an 
arbitrary crowding factor, C.
C lets us define the maximum number of 
replicators we'll allow into the void.
Say C is 10,000.
Then once there are 10,000 replicators,
the two terms cancel out and drive 
the replication rate down to zero,
meaning none of the replicators will be able to 
make copies until the population drops again. 
So let's see how this changes our simulation.
Okay.
Like the last time, the original 
replicator starts to grow,
after which it's quickly 
taken over by its mutations,
but this time, most of these mutation 
populations start to decline.
Because of the scarce resources, 
the new best population,
the lime one,
actually starts stealing 
resources from the others.
After that, a few more mutations pop 
up, even more powerful than the lime.
Ultimately, the purple replicator takes over,
occupying around 9,000 of 
the 10,000 available spaces.
It completely curbs all the other populations.
It goes without saying that the environment 
plays a massive role in which replicator wins.
If you change the environment, 
you likely change the outcome.
But let's look at the stats of the 
replicator that came out on top this time.
That winning species has 
a replication rate of 20%,
compared to the 17% average 
across all populations.
Obviously, being able to 
replicate quickly pays off here.
Its death rate is below average.
Replicators that fall apart less 
quickly can make more copies.
And finally, it has a 1% mutation 
rate, compared to the average of 3.73%.
Although mutations help by injecting diversity,
for any single species,
fewer mutations mean more faithful copies.
If we rerun the simulation, you'll notice 
the outcomes are always slightly different,
but the winning species consistently have high 
replication and low death and mutation rates.
Now, in the real void, things 
wouldn't have been as simple.
Instead of just tweaking these three stats,
the replicators would have to mutate all 
sorts of different ways to gain an advantage.
For example, one replicator might mutate a 
trait that lets it destroy other individuals
and then use their building blocks 
to make more copies of itself.
This looks like strategy,
but it's really just chemistry 
that gets copied over and over  
because it helps the replicator survive.
Naturally, a risk of offense would 
likely favor mutations that result in defense.
So an opposing replicator might 
stumble upon a mutation that helps  
it form protective barriers from nearby materials,
letting it endure those attacks.
These barriers would also help protect the 
fragile replicators from environmental damage,
like UV light.
This marks an important threshold.
The replicator's traits aren't limited to just  
determining the properties 
of the molecules themselves.
They can also shape the environment.
So by chance,
the replicators inevitably mutate in 
ways that build scaffolding around  
themselves to increase the 
chances of their survival.
They stumble upon ways of making 
structures to propel themselves around.
They develop senses and ways of storing energy.
They even mix, exchange, and 
steal traits from each other.
Through billions of years of trial and error, 
this scaffolding gets more and more complex,
and as a result,
the replicator's interactions with 
the void become exceedingly indirect.
They build complex survival 
machines for themselves,
machines whose sole purpose is to 
protect the replicators inside.
These machines became such experts at surviving,
they're still around some 4 billion years later.
They are the bacteria,
plants,
fungi,
and animals all around you.
Everything alive,
including you,
was built as a survival 
vessel for these replicators.
But today, you'd barely 
recognize them as replicators.
Now we just call them genes.
They're hidden deep within every living creature,
strands of DNA made from the sequences 
of A, T, G, and C nucleotides.
Now, one of the leading theories is that those  
earliest replicators were actually 
something closer to RNA molecules,
but then over time,
this must have evolved into a more 
stable system of storing information,
the DNA and proteins we use today.
They are the code that shapes our traits.
We’re taught that these traits are 
here solely to help ensure our survival
the survival of the individual or the species.
But do we have this the wrong way around?
When you have a child, what do you 
pass on? The DNA. The DNA, the genes.
Yeah, the genes.
Genes.
Okay, yeah.
These tiny replicators are still fighting the 
same battle that started billions of years ago,
and the logic behind them hasn't changed.
The traits just become more convoluted.
Replicators that produce traits poorly suited 
to their environment tend to become less common,
while those that produce advantageous traits 
become more numerous in the population.
So it's not about the fittest individual or group,
it's fundamentally about the 
survival of the fittest genes.
They are the core unit of natural selection.
But why would natural selection 
care exactly for the gene?
Why not something smaller or something bigger?
Well, for something to undergo selection,
it needs to have three characteristics.
First, it needs to be able to make 
near identical copies of itself.
Second, it needs to exhibit traits that affect 
its interaction with the environment which,
third, affect the probability of survival 
and reproduction of the replicator.
Something small like a single 
nucleotide doesn't work, because,
sure, it'll make identical copies of itself,
but alone,
it doesn't exhibit a trait 
that could be selected for.
What about something bigger, like a chromosome?
Well, each chromosome affects 
potentially thousands of traits  
that could influence its survival,
but when most creatures reproduce,
sections of chromosomes get swapped around.
So a chromosome doesn't stay together 
as a cohesive replicating unit,
and therefore it can't be selected for.
But a gene is somewhere in the middle.
It's a long enough stretch of DNA that 
it can independently influence a trait,
but it's also short and stable enough to be 
faithfully copied over into future generations.
This is why the gene is the 
unit of natural selection.
This perspective led to one of the most powerful 
and controversial ways of seeing evolution,
one popularized by Richard Dawkins 
in his book The Selfish Gene.
Based on the work of evolutionary 
biologists in the 1960s and 1970s.
And as a response against the, then very popular,
group selection theory.
Dawkins argued that just about every trait,
from animals helping each other 
to being completely selfish,
is a strategy that helps their 
genes survive and replicate.
Genes that maximize their own survival 
are the genes that propagate best,
even if they do so at the expense of others.
Or in Dawkins' words,
we are survival machines,
robot vehicles blindly programmed to preserve 
the selfish molecules known as genes.
Now, you might think this framework 
isn't all that groundbreaking.
I mean, take the emperor penguins 
in Antarctica for example.
They hesitate to jump into the water until 
they are sure there are no seals around.
So what kind of genes could help a 
penguin survive in this environment?
Well, if the penguin’s set of genes 
make it more likely to be timid,
the penguin might stay back until 
someone braver tests the water.
That way, the penguin is at 
a lower risk of being eaten,
and has a better chance to survive, 
reproduce and pass on its ‘timid’ genes.
Here, you can think about this either 
as ‘the timid genes help the penguin’
or ‘the penguin helps the timid genes’.
Either way works.
So is there any real benefit to viewing 
things from the gene's perspective?
Well, look at what happens when you use these 
two frameworks to explain altruistic behavior,
which appears in a lot of places in nature.
Take California ground squirrels for example.
Females will let out alarm 
calls if they spot a predator,
like a fox or a hawk,
to warn other nearby squirrels, even 
though this puts her survival at risk.
The genes influencing this behavior 
surely don’t help the squirrel.
But can the squirrel still help the genes?
I think this is a bit more 
clear if you think about the  
fact that most living things reproduce sexually.
Right.
So a squirrel will get half its DNA 
from its mom and half from its dad.
So it's actually sharing half 
its genes with each parent.
But also, any child that it has,
it's also going to share half of its genes 
with the child, but also any siblings.
But then if you take a step out to an uncle or up 
to a grandparent, then it's sharing one-quarter,
and then another step out is one-eighth.
All to say, you share a lot of 
genes with your immediate family.
And California ground squirrels, females 
in particular, they live around family.
So if a squirrel has a set of genes that 
make her call out when it spots a predator,
there is a very good chance that the 
squirrels that hear her warning call
also carry those genes.
Now, as a result of her alarm call,
let's say the squirrel attracts a predator 
her way, and it ends up getting eaten.
This action cost the ‘call’ genes 
the chance to pass themselves on  
to any future offspring of that squirrel.
But, if the warning call saved 
at least 2 copies of those genes
in two of the squirrel’s relatives…
well then, in total, these 
2 squirrels have a better
chance of passing on the genes through their 
offspring than the single squirrel did.
From the gene's perspective, 
this could be a good trade-off.
It doesn’t matter which individual 
helps the genes replicate,
only that as many copies as possible survive.
This principle, that altruistically helping your 
close relatives helps preserve your own genes,
is known as kin selection.
And the payoff behind any altruistic 
gesture under kin selection
depends heavily on how related you 
are to the individuals you're helping,
because the less related you are,
the smaller the chances that you will share 
that particular gene with another individual.
And you can see this in nature.
Male squirrels that don't live near relatives 
almost never give out warning calls.
Now, there is a big question this 
gene-centric view still has to address.
If selection really favors 
genes that replicate well,
then why would sex ever evolve 
as a means of replication,
if it throws away roughly half the genes?
Most animals reproduce sexually.
So why do it, when some organisms,
like certain plants and fungi,
get to pass on all of their genes 
through asexual reproduction?
From a gene's perspective, this 
seems like a much better deal.
When it comes to sexual 
reproduction, people like to say,
"Okay. Well, it mixes up the genes. 
It's like shuffling a deck of cards,
and isn't that better for creating more 
variation? And clearly, that's advantageous."
Another way this has been explained 
is if the genes that regulate sexual  
reproduction benefit from replicating sexually,
then they're going to keep 
pushing for these genes.
Right.
Even if it's a net negative to 
all the other genes in the genome.
Yeah.
So if it benefits them, 
they'll keep pushing for it.
So are there any problems with how The 
Selfish Gene explains natural selection?
Well, yes. I mean, it turns out the 
framework comes with a lot of controversy.
One of the biggest criticisms against The 
Selfish Gene is that it leaves little to chance.
It implies that every gene present in the genome 
is there because it actively got selected for,
by natural selection, over many generations.
But many genes are actually 
invisible to natural selection,
because they don't really exhibit 
meaningful traits in the population.
Yet, they can still evolve over time.
Imagine 20 blind cave fish,
10 with green eyes and 10 with blue.
Since they’re blind,
we’ll assume that their eye color traits 
make no difference to their survival
so they get passed down purely by chance.
Now, to form the next generation,
randomly “pick” any fish from 
the first group and replicate it.
If you repeat this 20 times, 
you get a 2nd generation.
By chance alone, one color will probably 
appear more often than the other.
And if you repeat this 
process over many generations,
one color might eventually completely take over.
Not because it’s better,
but purely due to random sampling.
This shift in the frequency of gene 
variants is called genetic drift.
It’s most apparent in small populations and for  
traits that aren't pruned 
for by natural selection.
But it doesn’t only apply to silent genes.
Even when genes exhibit meaningful traits,  
there is a chance that genetic 
drift overrides natural selection,
and a less fit gene will spread 
through the population just by chance.
Look back at our replicator battle.
If we run our simulation enough times,
sometimes the winning gene won’t be the one 
with the traits that maximize its own survival.
Here, you can see that the winning population 
actually has a higher than average mutation rate,
just by chance.
And the average mutation rate is 
also higher than the starting value.
These are simplified examples, 
but there is an ongoing argument  
about how much of evolution was 
actually due to natural selection
and how much of it was up to chance.
Another major criticism of 
The Selfish Gene is about the  
unavoidable implication behind the word selfish.
It seems to imply that genes have agency,
like they know what they're doing 
and they understand the consequences,
but it's only a metaphor,
just as portraying them as characters was a 
way for us to make the story more engaging.
Of course, molecules don't 
know what they're doing.
They don't decide to replicate or 
conspire to out-compete others.
They just react according to the laws of physics.
So what may look like intention
is just simple chemistry that 
happens to work well and propagates.
But perhaps the most obvious and 
easiest to understand criticism is  
that the whole framework is an oversimplification,
and that's true.
Genes are much more complicated than we thought.
It's not as simple as one gene equals one trait.
One gene can influence many traits, and 
one trait can be influenced by many genes.
There are genes that are wholly 
contained within other genes.
There are genes that inhibit or activate others,
and then there are even genes that 
seem to not encode for anything,
the so-called non-coding DNA.
All to say, we still have 
a lot to learn about genes.
Not to mention that the environment itself,
like whether it's hot or cold,
or how much food there is,
also affects how different genes get expressed.
Genes are much less deterministic 
than they might seem!
So you might think that a single gene 
would rarely have a large enough effect  
that natural selection can directly impact it,
but it doesn't matter how 
convoluted the pathway is.
If a gene has a measurable effect 
on its own survival and replication,
it will be subject to some 
amount of natural selection.
And surely, the whole theory is a simplification, 
but any theory or framework of nature is.
And what we're covering in this video is an 
even more simplified picture of that framework,
but that doesn't take away the fact 
that viewing the world through this  
lens has an incredible power to help 
us understand the process of evolution.
It helps us understand why we see such a 
range of different behaviors in our world
because fundamentally,
those traits tend to cause the increasing 
prevalence of the genes they are associated with.
It's like the whole point 
is figure out what's true.
Get to the truth.
And this, to me, is the 
baseline truth of evolution.
This is what I love about making Veritasium,
is that we get to sort of 
unpack and dig under the hood.
And it's what I loved about 
reading The Selfish Gene book,
is that it really opened my eyes to this.
Previously, I'd always just probably 
thought at the level of the individual,
but it makes more sense to 
think at the level of the gene.
The feeling that you and every other 
living organism is being driven by some  
molecules deep in every cell 
is fundamentally unsettling,
and seems to remove agency from you as 
an acting, thinking being in the world.
Yeah, it's pretty grim.
But whether or not you agree with the fact that  
we might be controlled by our genes 
and we're simply their flesh robots,
I think it's kind of unreasonable 
and unrealistic to go through life  
thinking that every decision is governed by this.
It doesn't really do you any good,
because we perceive the world as individuals.
So I think it's very beneficial to see 
yourself as your own thing, as your own unit.
I want to give a big shout-out to Joe Hanson 
from BeSmart for helping us out with this video,
and another shout-out to Primer for letting us 
adapt his simulation on the first replicators.
I have put links to their 
channels down in the description,
so please check them out.
And finally, I want to say 
a huge shout-out to you.
Thank you for watching.