Hi everyone, I'm Anthony.
Welcome to my channel
Today I want to talk to you about something very interesting.
And mysterious topics: numerology
So-called numerology
It is based on a person's birth time and name.
Even basic information such as appearance
Using a complex theoretical system
To infer a person's personality and interpersonal relationships
Even the trajectory of one's entire life
For example, the traditional Chinese Four Pillars of Destiny and Zi Wei Dou Shu.
For example, Western astrology, etc.
Although the methods are different
But the core logic all points to the same goal.
That is to find the source code of destiny.
I recently had a chat with a friend
He shared it with me
His recent experience studying numerology
He began to analyze his own and those around him's birth dates and times.
They also consulted several fortune tellers.
On the one hand, he felt
Many of the conclusions were so accurate they made his scalp tingle.
for example
The fortune teller believed his condition was "too much earth burying the metal."
That is to say, he is easily overlooked and overlooked.
Even being looked down upon
This made him think about how he felt ignored in the workplace.
For example
The fortune teller analyzed that his financial luck would be very good in a certain year.
And sure enough, he had a very good income that year.
I made a sum of money that I originally thought I couldn't earn.
Fortune tellers also base their predictions on the principles of the five elements' mutual generation and restraint.
His colleague and his romantic partner's birth charts were analyzed.
This made him
Those interpersonal conflicts that exhausted him
Feeling enlightened
These clever matches made him happy.
But what followed
It is a deeper fear and anxiety.
Because the fortune teller also calculated it.
His later years will be very difficult.
Worse than in earlier years
He even said that at the age of 71
There is a huge hurdle to overcome.
This made him very uneasy.
If good luck is real
So, is misfortune also destined to happen?
My life
Was it really written in a program that cannot be modified?
So this video
We will mainly use the Eight Characters (Ba Zi) as an example.
From a philosophical perspective
Let's talk about my views on various forms of fortune telling.
I will upload this video.
Included in the list of "Psychology and Education"
If you have anything you'd like to discuss with me
And the topics of consultation
You can contact me via email to make an appointment.
First of all, I would like to state my opinion.
My understanding of various forms of fortune telling
Maintain a completely open attitude
Whenever friends ask me to discuss their birth charts or astrological charts
I don't think that's superstition.
Instead, I found it very interesting.
Because I discovered
Many friends
I did indeed gain psychological support and positive feedback from it.
Although I don't understand astrology or Bazi (Four Pillars of Destiny)
But myself
There is also a set of beliefs about fate.
and the mysterious idea of ​​predicting the future
I believe that deep within everyone's spirit
In fact, these beliefs exist to varying degrees in all of them.
This is what we are trying to understand
A complex and uncertain life
An instinctive attempt
But I think
The way many people currently identify with numerology
There are potential risks.
The key to the problem
It's not about whether the theory itself is accurate or not.
It depends on how we perceive it.
I prefer to consider numerology.
Seen as an object of personal emotional projection
A good fortune teller
His role is actually less that of a prophet
Rather
More like a psychologist who deeply understands human nature
Everyone can study numerology.
Imagine it as sandplay therapy in psychotherapy
Those ambiguous abstract concepts and symbols
It's actually just a prop in a sand table.
He didn't explain it very clearly.
That's exactly what makes it convenient for us.
Projecting one's true inner feelings
A good fortune teller
From your interpretation of fate
It keenly captures your inner anxiety and unease.
Expectation or Escape
His task should be to use this discourse system
Guide you to become aware of those hidden true feelings.
final
This will lead you to a deeper awareness of free will.
Instead
To plunge a person into a state of fatalistic panic
About fate
We might easily think of the Oracle of Delphi in ancient Greece.
Those oracles were always ambiguous.
Not making things clear
One of the most famous oracles
This is the prophecy of Oedipus killing his father and marrying his mother.
After Oedipus learned of this
To escape this fate
He left what he thought was his father.
But the result was that he accidentally killed someone on the way.
Later he came to another city-state
He was hailed as king by the people.
He married the widow of the former king.
He only found out later
The one who was beaten to death was his own biological father.
He married his biological mother.
Many people would consider this a fatalistic story.
The belief that no matter how hard one struggles, one cannot escape fate.
But all of this
In fact, it relates to Oedipus's human weaknesses.
It has a great relationship
There is no god manipulating his will.
When he heard this oracle
He merely escaped the external circumstances of that fate.
However, his own lust for power was not taken into account.
and irritability
The result, however, was an unexpected twist of fate that brought this destiny to fruition.
However
When the truth comes out
Oedipus ultimately chose courage.
She bore all of this.
From the perspective of Western culture
Although fate seems to be external.
irresistible pressure
But it fell on this person's head.
It has already entered the person's personality.
One cannot always use fate to shirk one's responsibilities.
Your reaction to fate
That is precisely what defines who you are.
this
It is not about justifying the inequality in people's fates.
In the beginning, people indeed cannot choose their own destiny.
But people can choose how to respond to this fate.
For example, both experienced misfortune and trauma.
Some people
Choosing to inflict this pain on the weaker.
Some people, however, chose to strive to break free from this cycle.
These different ways of responding
This precisely reflects a person's true character.
However, once we consider destiny...
Viewed as a kind of definitive conclusion similar to scientific knowledge
Or an unquestionable authority
This presents a danger.
We will have a strong sense of preordainedness.
and sense of destiny
They feel they have lost their free will.
It seemed as if there was an external force
In cold control of oneself
Of course in Chinese society
Many industries
Both are prone to breed a kind of
Strengthening the atmosphere of hierarchy and personality cult
This tendency
It is particularly prevalent in the fields of numerology, mind-body-spirit, and spirituality.
Even in academic psychology
You can see this kind of person too.
They are keen to play the role of absolute authority.
Mentors and experts
Habitually speaking in an arrogant tone
To judge other people's fate
Exploiting the psychological weaknesses of visitors
Suppress, control, and exploit
Even psychological abuse
However, anything that deprives you of your subjectivity
It makes you feel powerless.
And an unquestionable theory
Whether it is metaphysics or philosophy
Whether it is an official religion or a folk religion
Essentially, they all stifle people's free will.
When we see a fortune teller
Logical deduction based on birth date and time
Using a variety of terms
We easily develop a feeling
This is considered a rigorous knowledge system.
It has a series of formulas
It has complex logical nesting
This formulaic appearance
Extremely satisfied
Our desire for order and certainty
But as Kant pointed out in Critique of Pure Reason...
Knowledge can only occur in the phenomenal world.
World of Experience
That is, those things that can be received by our senses.
And can be influenced by space and time.
And the objects dealt with by categories such as causality
The most important point is
Science can be analyzed quantitatively.
The problem with numerology is that...
Although it claims to be able to predict the future
But it refuses to be quantified.
It tells you that there's a hurdle at 84.
But is this hurdle actually a physical ailment?
Financial losses
Or was it just an emotional fluctuation?
It cannot be specific
It is even more impossible to quantify.
And when a concept refuses to be concretized
When refusing to be proven by experience
Logically, it becomes a thing-in-itself.
Or rather, things in themselves.
Kant believed that the thing-in-itself is unknowable.
Astrology takes advantage of this.
It describes fate as something hiding behind reality.
The untouchable essence
Because it is not presented in specific spatiotemporal coordinates.
It then became a
Abstract concepts that can never be falsified
It's like a black box.
No matter what happened to you
Reality
It can always be explained back using that set of abstract language.
Because of the terminology used in fortune telling
They are all highly blurred
For example, 克 (kè), 砍 (kǎn), 冲 (chōng), 埋 (mái), 杀 (shā), etc.
They all have a very rich
Even the meaning of mutual opposition
Very convenient for "semantic slippage"
for example
The character “克” means to restrain and control.
"Direct Officer" is considered to be an entity that can control or restrain a person.
However, the effectiveness of "restraint" depends on whether you are "strong in your own element".
Still "weak"
If you are "strong in self-element"
Therefore, the word "克" (ke) means self-discipline.
Restraining one's impulses
and having worldly achievements
And if you are "weak"
Therefore, "克" is interpreted as oppression, inferiority complex, and disease.
Disasters, lawsuits, etc.
But this covers almost everything a person can encounter.
All sorts of good and bad things
This can very easily trigger the so-called "Barnum effect".
That is when we
When faced with some very vague and general personality descriptions
We often think
These descriptions precisely reveal their uniqueness.
Take that friend's experience as an example.
The fortune teller told him
His destiny is one of "too much earth burying gold".
Or, "the earth is heavy and the gold is buried."
There's just too much soil.
The gold was buried.
This means it is easily overlooked and underestimated.
Then the person involved thought of
I have indeed had many such experiences.
But in reality, I feel that I have been underestimated.
This is an experience almost everyone has had.
In modern society
We've all experienced this to some extent.
My efforts have not been rewarded.
Or one's own value and potential
Not seen by others
As long as you take a magnifying glass to look
You can always find in your past life
Many similar events were found
And when you piece these fragments together
You'll feel that everything was predicted too accurately.
So, let's stop here.
Some friends might say: Anthony
Since you believe that fortune telling is unfalsifiable and unscientific
Does that mean it's meaningless?
I want to say
Unscientific and unfalsifiable are absolutely not the same as wrong.
The boundaries of science are very narrow.
In our lives
Many of the most precious and core things
For example, faith
For example, love, justice, and the pursuit of the meaning of life.
For example, human free will
All of them are unfalsifiable.
Using falsifiability
To measure a person's beliefs and spiritual world
It is very superficial and narrow-minded.
Therefore, I don't want to dwell on it.
Is fortune telling accurate?
I think what deserves more attention is
This system
What set of preconditions and framework were presupposed?
We can find
No matter how a fortune teller predicts your fate
here
They all implicitly contain a set of basic assumptions and models.
What we need to examine
It is precisely these
A consistent presupposition
First of all
I think it presupposes a theory of equilibrium.
Or a conservation-based model of human nature
It believes that human temperament needs to be balanced.
Just like the "Direct Officer overcoming Self" we just discussed.
Some friends might ask
What is a "正官" (Zheng Guan)?
In short
"Official" represents law, rules, leaders, and elders.
and their symbols
here
It actually contains Chinese culture and Chinese philosophy.
A basic assumption
That's why you became better
It is because there is a powerful force in the outside world.
Restraining you
You need to be restrained by external forces to prune yourself.
It presupposes a person with a strong self-element.
If they weren't suppressed by authority
They become impulsive and break the rules.
This is an authoritarian perspective.
certainly
It also believes that one should not suppress a person too much.
If the pressure from external authorities is too great
That person might then fall into feelings of inferiority and helplessness.
Therefore, to achieve a balance
But no matter what
They all treat people as machines.
Just like adjusting parameters
Ultimately, this brings the person's temperament to a state of balance.
However
This is still essentially a form of heteronomy.
Rather than self-discipline
This is tantamount to treating people as simple machines.
You need to maintain his various parameters
Within a normal range
Not too high
It shouldn't be too low either.
Speaking of restraint or self-control
I'm not saying that people don't need any constraints.
A person's growth
Just the right amount of setbacks and necessary obstacles are needed.
He will feel the world and others
It's not something you can do as you please.
but
This kind of constraint should have a positive effect on a person.
It cannot be separated from rationality, dialogue and reflection.
Only setbacks accompanied by reflection
Only then can it be internalized into our own rationality.
This leads to the development of self-discipline
in this case
Constraints are the steps to freedom.
Essentially, it is about making our rationality
To restrain one's willfulness and impulsiveness
Without these
But only pure setbacks and blows
That will only make people more obedient and compliant.
However
Within this framework of balance in fortune telling
This distinction regarding constraints has completely disappeared.
In the logic of "the official star overpowering the self"
It seems to presuppose a very crude premise.
As long as the constraint comes from an external authority
It's good
It doesn't care whether the way this constraint is imposed is reasonable.
Regardless of whether such an attack is humiliating or unfair.
Its only focus is
You have a very strong personality.
Therefore, it needs to be repaired.
You have so much energy!
Therefore, it needs to be consumed.
The standard for judgment depends on the subjective opinion of the authority.
Rather than the psychological state of the person involved
It's blurry.
Constraints based on rationality and equality
Brutal and irrational blows
The essential difference between them
If a person's energy is too strong
So he was bullied in the workplace.
Or encountering injustice in society
These can all be categorized as a form of pruning and exercise.
It is to train a person's character.
But this is clearly absurd.
We just talked about the theory of equilibrium.
In fact, behind this theory of balance
The Eight Characters of Destiny (Bazi) also hides a deeper presupposition.
It considers the good or bad nature of an event
It is certain and unchangeable.
From the perspective of numerology
The nature of an event is often clearly black and white.
Making money, getting promoted, and getting into a prestigious university are considered auspicious.
Illness, financial loss, and failing exams are considered "inauspicious" omens.
But real life
It's far more complex than this kind of dualism.
Of course, some friends might say
Astrology also speaks of turning misfortune into good fortune.
It also talks about the mutual transformation of fortune and misfortune.
It's not always about accepting your fate.
There is an old Chinese saying: "A loss may turn out to be a blessing in disguise."
It tells the story of
An old man lost his horse.
The neighbors all came to sympathize with him.
I feel sorry for him
But he said that might be a good thing.
Later, the horse actually came back on its own.
They also brought back an even bigger and more magnificent horse.
Neighbors came to congratulate them.
But he said this could also be a bad thing.
As a result, his son became very fond of that fine horse.
One day I fell and broke my leg
The neighbors came to comfort him again.
He refuted his neighbor again.
Later, war broke out on the frontier.
Many young people were forcibly conscripted into the army.
Died on the battlefield
His son broke his leg.
Instead, they avoided conscription.
And survived.
This story is very famous in China.
It expresses the idea that fate is unfathomable.
But in this story
The ups and downs of this old man and his son's fate
Relying entirely on random collisions of the external environment
The person involved has not evolved at all.
Just quietly waiting for fate to arrive.
And this transformation of fate
It's more like addition and subtraction in an accounting book.
Its so-called fortune and misfortune
Completely within the coordinate system of worldly interests
For example, money, job position, health, etc.
If you lose a sum of money
So
Even if you make an even bigger profit later
Losing money is still undoubtedly a disaster.
It's just that good fortune rests on this misfortune.
This is what is meant by "misfortune may be a blessing in disguise".
In this ledger
The money lost is always a negative value.
It was simply canceled out by the subsequent positive value.
The problem here is
Although it acknowledged
People can change their destiny to some extent.
But good luck and bad luck are still predetermined.
Here, the person remains a passive recipient.
It presupposes that you can only enjoy good luck.
Endure misfortune
Or perhaps through certain technical means to mitigate misfortune.
But it doesn't reflect a person's character.
Internal growth points
What does this mean?
Let's take an example.
A junior high school student during the entrance exam
Those who did not get into the school's honors class
He was in great pain.
I feel like I have failed
However, he later discovered
Teachers of the top classes
The disciplinary methods are more rigid and high-pressure.
I might be even more depressed if I went there.
On the contrary, in ordinary classes
I feel more relaxed
Learning ability is also better utilized.
His grades actually got better and better.
More importantly
He realized
Results achieved under pressure are unsustainable.
What's truly important is a relaxed and inclusive learning environment.
This realization itself is more important than being number one.
For example
Some people have been immersed in their work for many years.
One day, due to the body's shutdown
He had to stay in the hospital for two weeks.
As a result during this period
He was finally able to stop and reflect on his life.
He even made new friends at the hospital.
It led to a deeper understanding of life.
It even changed the way he lived for the next few decades.
This kind of thing happens frequently.
In fact, we can discover
The nature of an event
It's never locked down the instant it happens.
The event itself is neutral "material".
And our free will
These "materials" can be given a soul.
Even in a secular sense
It may not increase our wealth or position.
But it makes us feel
One's own life is more controllable and free.
By actively cultivating self-awareness
The person involved did not "benefit from misfortune".
Instead, it completely rewrote the nature of "misfortune".
And as he learned more and more about himself
The more he takes control of his life, the better.
This intrinsic variable
We can call it self-awareness.
Or self-identity, etc.
A person who persists in reflection and remains awake
His self-identity
It increases with age
he
The more he understands his external world and external encounters, the better.
Give meaning
This self-identity
It will become the core variable of his fate.
If we don't consider this growth
Just a simple discussion
Fluctuations in fortune at different ages
This is actually quite absurd.
Because if a theory
Only care about health, wealth and position
However, the growth of the subject is never discussed or focused on.
So what is its default ideal life?
It's actually very hollow.
Under this system
As long as a person continues to rise in wealth and career
It must be a good thing.
certainly
Wealth, position, and health are all very important.
But the value of these things
Ultimately
It still depends on the meaning that the parties involved assign to it.
for example
one person
Endure and sacrifice a dull and boring work environment
High-paying job in exchange
And someone chose what they love
But jobs with relatively low income
We obviously cannot judge people based on their wealth or position.
To make a crude judgment
Which of these two people is luckier?
Perhaps the first type of person might suddenly fall ill one day.
Or an emotional outburst
Did some destructive things
From the perspective of numerology
That's because he had it too easy.
Too proud
Overconfident
Therefore, he needs to be punished by fate.
But when we look at it from a psychological perspective...
This is not because the person involved is so proud and smug.
More likely because
He himself has been in this job for a long time.
Feeling depressed and exhausted
His true self has always been in the shadows.
Therefore, he himself has a tendency toward self-destruction.
Want to shatter this kind of life
Behind that madness lies extreme weakness.
We can see
These are two completely different perspectives.
certainly
These two perspectives in China and the West
Philosophy has very profound origins.
Regarding this topic
Let's discuss this later.
That's all for today's video.
If you have any confusion or questions
Want to communicate with me
Just contact me via email.
for example
You want to discuss a certain article or a certain passage with me.
A video
A certain social phenomenon
Or your diary
You can send me the relevant text in advance.
I will finish reading it before the formal exchange.
Or you'd like to discuss your life experiences with me.
Confusion and emotions
Both are acceptable.
If you are concerned about privacy and security
Any questions regarding payment and communication methods
Please let me know as soon as possible.
If you are unable to pay or become a member
Please also contact me
I will provide other methods
Please refer to this image for details.
I will upload this video.
Included in the list of "Psychology and Education"
I also recommend it to everyone
Go check out other videos in this list
Thank you for watching, goodbye!