Recently, psychologists have discovered that since 2010,
depression, anxiety, and suicide rates among teenagers around the world have been rising.
What exactly happened?
American psychologist Jonathan Haidt, in his new book 'The Anxious Generation,'
proposes a startling explanation.
Generation Z, born after 1995,
has lived in a world fed by mobile phones since childhood.
This is the first time in human history
that an entire generation of children has detached from reality in their childhood
and spent it on screens.
This is invisibly damaging the brains of young people
and causing mental health problems for young people worldwide.
In today's episode, let's talk about
why Generation Z young people have become the anxious generation out of control.
From 2010 to 2020,
the proportion of American high school students suffering from major depression doubled.
And the increase was much higher for girls than for boys.
One in four high school girls
has experienced depression in the past year.
This made psychologists curious
why the cases are surging in the adolescent population.
Older generations don't have this problem.
Some psychologists believe
this is only because the stigma of mental illness has decreased,
and people are more willing to admit they have depression,
so there is an increasing trend.
It's not because something major happened after 2010.
But the author believes things are not that simple.
Because in the past 20 years,
cases of American teenagers being hospitalized for self-harm
have also increased significantly after 2010.
And again, the increase is greater for girls,
tripling.
Looking closely at 37 countries around the world,
Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and Northern Europe,
have all found the same trend.
After 2010,
the mental health of Generation Z young people began to collapse, which is a real phenomenon.
So we have to ask,
starting in 2010,
what changes have taken place in the lives of high school students?
The author believes a key factor is
between 2010 and 2015,
smartphones began to become popular among young people.
2010 was the year the iPhone 4 was launched.
This was the first phone with a front-facing camera for selfies.
IG was also launched in the same year.
In 2011,
only 23% of young Americans had smartphones.
77% used traditional mobile phones
But by 2016
79% of young people already had smartphones
Spending an average of 7 hours a day on social media
A quarter of people say they are online all day
This shift in attention
Has brought major changes to young people's interpersonal relationships
The author calls this a "childhood great reset"
Before the popularity of smartphones
Human children all lived childhoods dominated by play
This type of childhood has been the norm for hundreds of thousands of years
But after 2010
Human children began to shift to mobile phone-dominated childhoods
Children's interest in the real world has decreased
Ignoring activities outside the screen
Having a smartphone seems like a technological advancement
But it has already begun to affect children's minds
Because for a child's childhood to develop normally
There is actually a set of evolutionary design mechanisms
The difference between human children and other primates
Is that the offspring of other primates develop and grow at a stable rate
But human children develop slowly before adolescence
And then accelerate growth in youth
In other words, compared to other primates
Humans have a very long childhood
Why did evolution design it this way?
Wouldn't growing up faster be more conducive to survival?
Because when humans evolved into Homo sapiens
Culture developed
Children need to learn cultural knowledge
Which requires greater brain capacity and longer learning time
So humans gradually evolved into creatures with long childhoods
To facilitate children's learning
For tens of thousands of years
Children have learned how to participate in group life, cooperate, and compete
By playing with peers
These repetitive games help the brain build neural connections
In 1959, the United Nations listed play as a basic human right of children
Because more and more psychological research has found
That once children are deprived of play experiences
It will have a negative impact on the development of cognitive abilities
After 2010
Gen Z youth spend their childhood on their phones.
The online world seems to open up new experiences.
But it actually hinders their real-world experiences.
There are fewer and fewer real-world interactions to cultivate social skills.
According to statistics,
the percentage of American students meeting friends after school each day
has shrunk dramatically since 2010.
Students no longer meet up to hang out.
Instead, they stay home scrolling on their phones, playing online games, and managing social media.
American female students spend more than 20 hours a week on social media.
A work week is 40 hours.
These students are essentially treating social media as a side job.
Some might ask,
isn't online gaming also a form of play?
Isn't social media also a form of socializing?
But there's a key difference here.
Real-world group games and activities are the goal in themselves.
Everyone just wants to have fun.
Young people can learn socialization in the process.
Learn to hone various social skills.
You can't escape to the online world.
In other words,
there's a barrier to entry when joining a group in the real world.
You have to put in time and effort to cultivate interpersonal relationships.
But in online games and social media,
if you're unhappy,
you can block someone or kick them out of the group.
Or move to another community.
So you can't learn interpersonal skills in the process.
Moreover, socializing on social media has a clear purpose.
You consider how much traffic each post will get.
It's like building a personal brand.
And you can't be yourself freely.
A phone-centric childhood
also affects young people's self-identity.
Because 9 to 15 years old is the formative period for self-identity.
It's a critical period for learning culture.
Japanese anthropologist Yasuko Minoura studied Japanese immigrants to the United States.
She found that if they immigrated before the age of 9,
after living in California for a few years, they would identify as American.
But if they moved there after the age of 15,
no matter how long they stayed, they would still consider themselves Japanese.
Because self-identity is already formed before the age of 15.
So how is self-identity established between the ages of 9 and 15?
It's actually through interpersonal networks.
Playing with peers and imitating each other.
Taking the people around you as role models.
But Gen Z's childhood is not built on real-world interpersonal networks.
But rather online social networks.
The object of imitation has become online celebrities on social platforms.
Because young people have not yet established their own value system.
Instead, they see what their peers are chasing.
If everyone is discussing it, but you don't join in,
you miss the opportunity to participate in the community at that moment.
You will feel isolated from the community.
So studies have found
that when young people start wanting to create an Instagram account
it's usually because they realize that everyone around them is using Instagram
But building identity through social media
can have unimaginable consequences
for the mental health of young people
For tens of thousands of years
humans have had a childhood dominated by play
but after 2010, it suddenly turned into a childhood dominated by mobile phones
There is a huge opportunity cost hidden behind this
You could have had more time to connect with people in the real world
but now you lose it because you're scrolling on your phone
which is equivalent to depriving children of their childhood
This brings four harms to Generation Z young people
The first is social deprivation
After 2010, the time American young people spend together dropped sharply
The amount of time spent with friends every day has decreased
This makes Generation Z young people feel very isolated
without a sense of community
What's worse is
that even at home, they see their parents scrolling on their phones
In 2014, Highlight magazine surveyed 1,500 children
62% of children said that when they wanted to spend time with their parents
their parents were distracted by their phones
The second harm is sleep deprivation
Starting in 2011
the proportion of American young people who do not get enough sleep (less than 7 hours) has gradually increased
Lack of sleep leads to reduced attention and memory
The most obvious reflection is
that the overall test scores of American students have declined
Staying up late to scroll on your phone is the culprit
Netflix's CEO once said
that the biggest competitor of streaming platforms is sleep
Therefore, Netflix's design is to try to make users stay up late to binge-watch
If you are an adult
staying up late to binge-watch will not have a big impact
But if you are a young person
your brain is still developing
which will affect brain structure
causing inattention and emotional instability
and making you more prone to depression
Psychologists have found in experiments
that if you don't use 3C products after 9 pm
your sleep time will increase after two weeks
and you will be able to fall asleep earlier
and your attention will also improve
This is also the third harm that mobile phones bring to young people
Attention fragmentation
Research statistics
Young people receive an average of 192 social media notifications per day
That's about one every 5 minutes
It's impossible to concentrate on studying like this
我无法专心读书
I wasn't able to focus.
因為我每過幾分鐘就會看一下手機
because I would have to take out my phone every couple of minutes.
Psychologists have even discovered
During exams and tests
Just having a phone on the desk
Reduces students' brain cognitive capacity
Leading to brain drain
Because students are distracted by their phones
Wondering if there are any new notifications
A serious consequence of attention fragmentation is
Among today's young people
More and more people have ADHD symptoms
Because the frontal cortex of the brain, which is responsible for attention
Doesn't fully develop until after adolescence
And social media companies take advantage of this vulnerability
I'm here today because I believe Facebook’s products harm children,
煽动分裂，削弱我们的民主
stoke division and weaken our democracy.
公司的领导阶层知道如何让 Facebook 和 Instagram 更安全
The company's leadership knows how to make Facebook and Instagram safer,
但却不做出必要的改变
but won't make the necessary changes
因為他們把鉅額利潤看得比人還重要
because they have put their astronomical profits before people.
2021年
Facebook whistleblower Frances Haugen revealed in the US Congress
Revealing Facebook employee documents
Which recorded that IG deliberately targeted young users as their target audience
Because neuroscience evidence suggests
That the cerebral cortex of young people does not mature until after the age of 20
Programmers take advantage of this weakness
To design addictive mechanisms
To keep young users on the platform
So the platform can earn more advertising revenue
What those documents showed was the Facebook knew its products were causing harm to kids,
他们做过实验，试图减轻危害，但最终选择不采用
that they had run experiment trying to mitigate those harms and chosen not to launch them.
所以说穿了，他们把利潤看得比孩子還重要
So to put it really bluntly, they put profits before kids.
毫無疑問，對他們來說利潤更重要
They unquestionably put profits before kids.
他們拒絕為這件事負責
They refused to take responsibility.
我想臉書應該宣告道德破產
I think Facebook needs to declare moral bankruptcy.
These platform design notifications are intended
to pull you away from
what you were originally doing.
When you click on a notification,
the platform sends you some rewards,
like how many likes a post gets,
or what new messages friends have posted.
The brain then releases the happy hormone dopamine.
Once your brain gets used to this dopamine circuit,
it will be conditioned by the platform's feedback system,
feeling that doing other things
doesn't give you as much pleasure.
Over time,
the brain will become like a brain addicted to gambling or drugs,
needing to constantly use the phone.
Once stopped,
the brain will experience dopamine deficiency,
producing withdrawal symptoms,
such as anxiety, irritability, and insomnia.
Mom I want my iPad.
Mom I really want the iPad.
So many parents,
when prohibiting children from using 3C products,
will trigger these withdrawal symptoms.
Children will become irritable and verbally abuse their parents.
This is the fourth harm that a phone-centric childhood
causes to young people:
Addiction.
Why does 3C addiction only happen
to Generation Z,
but not to the earlier Millennial generation?
Because the childhood of the 90s experienced the popularity of desktop computers.
Even if you get addicted to playing computer games,
you can't carry the computer around with you.
But smartphones can be carried around 24 hours a day,
like carrying drugs with you.
So historian David Courtwright pointed out in his book 'The Age of Addiction'
that contemporary society has transformed into
a situation where companies no longer operate by providing competitive products,
but by remodeling the neurological structure of consumers' brains,
locking onto the limbic system in the brain responsible for controlling emotions,
seizing the attention of young people,
and making them addicted.
Just like drug dealers use drug addiction to make money.
So even if Facebook and YouTube platforms are terrible,
people will continue to use these products.
As if they were poisoned.
The currently popular limbic capitalism has different harms for men and women.
Girls spend more time managing IG and Snapchat,
while boys spend more time on YouTube and online games.
This makes girls more vulnerable to social media,
feeling imperfect about their self-image.
Boys are more easily exploited by game companies,
becoming addicted to online games,
and withdrawing from the real world.
Let's take a look at the girls' situation first.
The more girls use social media, the higher the proportion of depression.
But it's not so obvious for boys.
Why is social media more harmful to girls?
Girls are particularly concerned about their appearance during puberty.
Because society as a whole has more demands on women's appearance.
Women are more likely to have appearance anxiety.
To cope with this anxiety,
social platforms began to launch filter functions.
You can beautify with one click.
The Wall Street Journal once did an experiment.
They opened more than a dozen fake accounts of 13-year-old girls on TikTok.
Within a few weeks,
TikTok will push weight loss videos to these fake accounts.
There are various extreme weight loss methods.
The most famous of which is the Skeleton Bride Diet.
Every other video was either a low calorie recipe or what I eat in a day,
Every other video was either a low calorie recipe or what I eat in a day,
someone sick or something like that.
So all of my content on all of my feeds had just been warped completely.
Another more surprising finding is that
depression can be transmitted to others through women.
American sociologist Nicholas Christakis researched
When a woman is depressed,
the probability of her friend suffering from depression increases by 142%.
But when a man falls into depression,
his friends will not have a significant impact.
The reason is that women are more willing to share their emotions.
Express their feelings.
Men are unwilling to talk about their feelings.
If all the girls share their depressive experiences on social media,
then the algorithm will push these contents to more female users.
Depressed emotions will be transmitted to more girls.
And the platform can earn more advertising fees from it.
In 2021,
neurologists around the world have noticed
a sudden surge in the number of young women seeking medical attention.
These people claimed to have Tourette's syndrome.
Symptoms are body twitching, sudden strange noises.
But after the examination,
it was found that these people did not have physiological problems.
But psychological problems.
It turned out that they were imitating the suddenly popular internet celebrity videos on TikTok.
This internet celebrity has Tourette's syndrome.
Because of the high click-through rate,
others scrambled to imitate.
Want to get attention.
On TikTok,
this type of video has accumulated more than 6 billion views.
It is tantamount to social media triggering a large-scale psychological epidemic.
And these same sentences and phrases you were saying repeated by girls across the world.
Across the world, both in Australia and in America, using similar phrases.
And it was that made us think the social media was a link and what was going on.
And I think it became almost like a contagion or they started to mimic or do these takes.
Next is the situation of young men.
A childhood primarily focused on games
Men build friendships through face-to-face interaction
But Z generation men, mainly using mobile phones, prefer to stay at home
A 2018 survey found
Among 30-year-old young men,
27% live with their parents
Compared to only 17% of women
Why are Z generation men more likely to stay at home than women?
The author believes
The emergence of the online world has changed the way men think about risk
Achievements in the real world require long-term effort
You need to perform well in school and at work to be noticed
A man looking for a relationship
Must go on dates with the woman for a period of time before there are results
But no matter how hard you work
There are still risks in the real world
You might get fired by your boss
You might get dumped by your girlfriend
In comparison
There is little risk in the online world
Men can have absolute control
Do whatever you want
I was addicted to gaming. Browsing porn. Yeah.
I was addicted to the computer.
It was a way of numbing out, not having to deal with real life.
So through the Internet, you were escaping real life?
Through my games, I was living out more exciting lives.
Who were you online then?
Whoever I wanted to be.
Men don't need to have girlfriends anymore
Watching porn and buying sex dolls can provide satisfaction
Research found
Among Swedish male students
Only 11% of boys watched porn in 2004
By 2014, the proportion had increased to 24%
Many teenagers addicted to porn
Even feel that real women are less attractive
Watching porn is more exciting than real sex
In addition to being addicted to porn
Addiction to video games is another phenomenon among young men
In the virtual world
Men can be like gods
Quickly get rewards after taking action
Gain a sense of accomplishment
In fact, playing video games in moderation is good for the development of young people's brains
Can improve working memory
Improve cognitive abilities
It only becomes a problem when playing games becomes an addiction
The clinical standard for addiction is
When personal life is significantly impaired and troubled
It constitutes an addiction
For example, in 2023
A Canadian court ruled
Local parents can sue a video game company, Epic Games
Because their games are addictive to children
Leading to mental illness in children
Ｍakers of the wildly popular video game, Fortnite facing a new lawsuit.
That newly authorized class action lawsuit filed on behalf of parents in Canada
alleges Epic Games designed Fortnite to create a dependency on users
and failed to provide warnings of the risks associated with playing.
Some might say
You can also make friends through video games.
But if that were really the case,
young people today shouldn't feel more lonely.
But a 2019 survey shows
that 35% of American men report feeling lonely often.
This decline in friendship
has only emerged since 2010.
Why is it that making friends in online games
still makes people feel lonely?
There is a big difference between online and real-life games.
Real-life games require teamwork.
They require synchronized physical coordination and interaction.
This synchronized physical experience enhances social connection.
It also allows people to learn to face the risk of losing.
But in the world of online games,
this synchronized physical experience doesn't exist.
It doesn't matter how many times you die.
You just play again.
There is no risk.
In other words,
the phenomenon of large-scale male recluses staying at home
is not actually avoiding reality,
but avoiding risk.
In this era where limbic capitalism triumphs,
we can't tell young people not to use their phones.
Because when everyone is using them,
not doing so is equivalent to being socially isolated.
I felt pressured because in fifth grade,
I did feel pressured because in fifth grade,
almost every classmate had a phone at that time.
literally every single one of my classmates had a phone at that time.
I also felt pressured.
I definitely was pressured.
It was like a competition to see who would get a phone first.
It was like a competition to see who would get a phone first.
So what can the government, schools, and parents do?
to help today's young people?
The first thing to know is
that these social media companies
knew from the start that their designs
would cause psychological problems for young people.
As early as 2013,
Google hired ethicist Tristan Harris
to create a briefing warning Google
that their products were drastically reshaping the attention of humans globally,
causing humans to lose focus on the world outside the screen.
Harris testified before the U.S. Senate in 2020,
testifying about the mechanisms these companies use to manipulate the minds of young people.
Everything you said is sad to me, because it's happening not by accident, but by design,
Because the business model is to keep people engaged.
And after two decades in decline, the mental health of 10 to 14 year old girls
has actually shot up 170% in the last eight years.
And this has been very characteristically because of social media.
Fundamentally, there's no easy way for these platforms to address this problem
because the problem is their business model.
He pointed out that competition among tech companies is a collective action problem.
When a company lowers the registration age to 13,
it can attract more users to its social media.
If you don't do it,
and your competitor does,
they win.
If you maintain ethical standards
and don't exploit the minds of children,
you lose.
In other words,
the logic of capitalist competition
leads companies to inevitably participate in this race for attention.
Facebook's first president, Sean Parker, revealed
that Facebook hired psychologists to study
how to design a dopamine-fueled addiction mechanism
to occupy young people's attention and time.
It’s a social validation feedback loop.
It’s like a...
It’s exactly the kind of thing that I hacker like myself would come up with.
because you’re exploiting vulnerability of human psychology.
From a designer's perspective,
social media is actually like a casino.
The platform owner is the house.
The house has to find ways to keep more players in the casino to make more money.
The easiest to lure into the casino
are children whose brains are still developing.
So, limbic capitalism
can be said to be refreshing the moral bottom line.
Making money by harming children.
To prevent damage to children's minds,
one thing the government can do is legislate regulations,
like in 2024,
Florida in the United States passed a new bill
prohibiting children under the age of 14 from using social media.
The Australian Parliament also passed a new bill
prohibiting children under the age of 16 from using social media.
Platforms that violate the law can be fined up to NT$1 billion.
Next, what can schools do?
The author believes
schools can shift from a phone-based childhood
to a game-based childhood.
Implement a no-phone policy on campus,
giving teenagers more free time to interact.
For example, at Mountain Middle School in Colorado,
the principal noticed a rise in teenage suicide rates
and implemented a no-phone policy on campus in 2012.
Upon entering the school, phones are uniformly placed in bags.
Students' 10-minute breaks are no longer spent scrolling on their phones,
but must involve socializing with others.
The problem of fragmented attention is also alleviated.
Students' overall academic performance has also improved.
In fact,
executives at Silicon Valley tech companies, the founders of those social media platforms,
prohibit their own children from using phones.
And they all send their children to the Waldorf School of the Peninsula in Silicon Valley.
This school prohibits digital devices.
Apple founder Steve Jobs actually would not let his own kids play with computers
some other Silicon Valley parents agree no more iPads as pacifiers.
Because the people who design these software programs
are well aware of the dangers of smartphones
and don't let their own children touch these things.
Schools banning students from using phones
can also eliminate the digital divide created by class differences.
The harm brought by digital products actually has class differences.
In middle-class families,
parents are more likely to control the amount of time their children spend using phones.
But in working-class families,
parents don't have time to supervise their children
and will let them play on their phones.
As a result, working-class children
have more scattered attention
and worse test scores.
So if schools ban all students from using phones,
it can actually eliminate class differences to a certain extent.
But schools can't just ban it,
they must also give students more free time to return to reality.
American elementary school students only have an average of 27 minutes of recess per day.
Prisoners in American prisons have at least 2 hours of outdoor time per day.
Prisoners have more free time than students.
If schools provide students with more free time,
it can increase students' opportunities to interact with the natural environment.
It also helps improve mental health.
Because humans are born with biophilia.
When people are in a natural environment,
it helps stabilize their emotions.
This is how humans have evolved over hundreds of thousands of years
in hunting and gathering environments.
On the contrary, being addicted to the world of 3C products
can lead to various depression and anxiety.
So what can parents do in the end?
The author believes that from the perspective of developmental psychology,
different ages have different developmental stages.
Children under 5 years old
their brains are still building three-dimensional thinking.
At this time, they should use as few electronic products as possible.
However, if children actively use 3C products for video chat,
it actually helps with language learning.
People in elementary school stage
are at the most sensitive time for cultural learning.
It is also the time when they care most about peer pressure.
Parents should increase their children's real-life experiences.
For example, after-school time should be used for playing
instead of scrolling on the phone.
Or let children participate in camps
away from digital products.
Parents can also set usage limits on mobile phones.
For example, the Quebec government recommends parents
not to give children more than two hours of screen time per day.
Unless mum puts in the code, otherwise you can't continue to play this game.
You can't you can't play this game unless mum puts in the code, the security code.
Is that a good thing or a bad thing?
Is that a good thing or a bad thing?
bad thing.
bad thing.
Now, if that if you didn't have the timer on there,
Now, if that if you didn't have the timer on there,
how long would you play on the game?
how long would you play on the game?
I don’t know. until my ass hurt.
I don’t know. until my ass hurt.
Finally, there are high school students.
Because high school students have begun to have the ability to make independent judgments.
They should be given a certain degree of autonomy in using mobile phones.
Coordinate through communication not to be excessively addicted.
Parents can even discuss with their children and arrange a "digital Sabbath" day.
Stay away from digital products.
Go experience real-world activities.
Let teenagers explore on their own.
If they like the outside world,
they will judge independently.
Willing to spend more time in reality
instead of on the phone.
Looking back at history,
for tens of thousands of years,
humans have always let their children grow up playing in the real world.
Generation Z is the first time in history
that human childhood is spent on phone screens.
This has changed the brain structure of young people
and created the most out-of-control anxious generation.
Whether you have children or not,
the limbic capitalism will affect each of us.
So we should all pay attention to this mental health crisis
and think about how to enable the younger generation to have a healthier development.