Everyone knows that Taiwan is famous as a pedestrian hell.
Number of deaths due to traffic accidents in the country
Last year, there were 3,085 people
Set a new high since statistics were collected in 2013
when i lived in london
You won’t feel dangerous walking in the city center for more than half an hour
But in Taiwan
You have to be very careful when walking on the street
He refused to let me go and honked the horn.
Is it the pedestrian's fault?
The scene changes to a locomotive and refuses to let you go
Pedestrian counterattacks with ultimate move again
This time they honk each other's horns
The Legislative Yuan passes the amendment in 2023
It is stipulated that drivers should not give way to pedestrians
The maximum fine is NT$6,000
After the new law comes into effect
There have been many debates over the supremacy of vehicles and the supremacy of pedestrians.
This is the national student art competition
Get excellent works
It's called Pedestrian Hell
But winning an award should be a nice thing
However, he was criticized by a large number of netizens for vilifying the pedestrian right of way and still winning an award.
Taiwan’s education is really pathetic
Come face this book today
It is design that makes cities happier
Let’s talk about the right-of-way dispute.
The author of this book is Charles Montgomery
Is a famous urban planner in Canada
In today’s video, we will introduce them separately
Why do cars have a greater right of way than pedestrians?
Does the design of automobile roads meet the original intention of urban construction?
How do cities around the world return rights of way to pedestrians?
When discussing the right-of-way battle
Often divided into two groups
One group calls pedestrians emperors
One group scolded the driver for not being polite.
Finally waited until there was no car
But the white car turned on the turn signal and stepped on the accelerator to rush forward.
Forcing pedestrians to give way is outrageous
Mother holding her baby while crossing the road
I was frightened by a car that was driving quickly and backed away.
Three beeps in a row
Pedestrians are frightened and run quickly
Witness public dissatisfaction
Why don’t even public transportation vehicles give way to pedestrians?
But how did the thinking above driving appear?
After the industrial revolution in the 19th century
Severe air pollution occurs in European and American countries
Dirty water, infectious diseases, slums
Cities are seen as man-made disasters
New York in 1885
The mortality rate in cheaper housing areas is 57%
Urban designers at that time proposed two solutions:
One school is called the Secession School
It means separating the dirtiest and most poisonous factories into one area.
The shopping mall is divided into one area
The living residence is separated into one area
Zoning the city
Turn the city into a geometric figure
So the American Metropolitan Act of the early 20th century would clearly stipulate
What can you build and do on private land?
Work areas, shopping areas, and living areas must all have clear boundaries.
Well water does not offend river water
So we all think that the United States is a free market economy
But actually
Urban planning regulations in the United States during the Cold War
Not at all inferior to the planned economy of the Soviet Union
Another solution to urban problems
It is the speed school that expands automobile rights of way.
American architect Frank Lloyd Wright promotes a new concept
Think that as long as we mass-produce cars and build roads
People can escape from the city
Go to the periphery to build a utopia of freedom
The sooner people can escape the city, the freer they will be
Human liberation lies at the end of the road
same period
Henry Ford, the founder of Ford Motor Company, promoted this concept
Tell you the best way to solve urban problems
Just stay away from the city and move to the suburbs
Then every household needs to buy a car
This concept is deeply rooted in the hearts of the people in the United States
So in the United States
People who long for freedom will move to the suburbs
Massive demand for suburban houses and cars
It also promoted the economic prosperity of American manufacturing and construction companies.
After the builder found a business opportunity, he began to sell a set of rhetoric
Talk about moving to the suburbs
It's like having a private life away from the hustle and bustle of the city
But by the 1920s
After automobiles became popular
A problem occurred
1920-1929
More than 200,000 people died in car crashes in the United States
And most of them are young people and children
Urban historian Peter Norton called it an unprecedented mass death.
over the past thousands of years
The roads are for people to walk on
There were no traffic lights before the 1930s
Because there is no need at all
At that time, trams shared the streets with pedestrians
Children can play on the road
Everyone has the freedom to walk on the road
So when the car first appeared
Everyone sees this as a threat to freedom
If a car accidentally hits a pedestrian
The car owner will be mobbed by passers-by
People from all walks of life protect pedestrians’ right of way
Even when the case is being decided in court
The car owner who caused the accident will also be convicted of manslaughter instead of a traffic violation.
At that time, regulations even stipulated that the speed of cars could not exceed 16 kilometers per hour.
Thanks to the inventive minds of two Sheffield engineers,
the safety scoop has arrived.
When the scoop is open, a jaywalker simply can't get run over.
When the scoop is open, a jaywalker simply can't get run over.
The vehicle's right of way is highly restricted
This is not good for car sales
So the car dealers at that time joined forces with the American Automobile Association
Want to change people's concept of rights of way
Start giving directions and say you want to make traffic safer
Pedestrians should pay attention to themselves
Rather than restricting cars’ right of way
To blame pedestrians for car accidents
The auto industry even coined a new word for advertising
People who jaywalk are said to be jaywalking (walking without looking at the road)
The jaywalker
.
He crosses the street anywhere
he likes in the middle of the block.
He just walks
into the traffic.
Do you know what Jay means?
And you know what a jay is?
Besides being a bird, it also means a silly
person.
Using jaywalker to describe people who jaywalk is just right
, and that is just what the jitter brain jaywalker is.
Later it was even more legally prohibited
Said it was for the safety of pedestrians
Because the United States was in the midst of the Great Depression
Need auto industry to boost economy
U.S. Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover holds national transportation safety conference
Formalizing the automobile as a representation of progress in mobility
So pedestrians should give way to cars
Set a benchmark in regulations
Give cars a greater right of way than pedestrians
After the country officially legalized the right of road for automobiles,
Americans’ views on freedom begin to change
Roy Chapin, chairman of the Hudson Motor Company at the time, said:
Cars allow people to escape from the oppression of cities
Facilitates freedom of movement and movement
Today is a very happy occasion and one which we surely have a good right to celebrate at the car opening ceremony
Congratulate each other well,
with mutual congratulations and a spirit of optimist.
At the 1939 New York World's Fair
General Motors showcases its vision of the future
Presenting the future face of American society
It’s a city built for cars
At the same time, General Motors purchased streetcar lines in dozens of cities across the United States.
Dismantle it after buying it
Reduce public transportation
People will have to rely on cars for transportation
Engineers trained by these car dealers
He was one of the few transportation design experts in the United States at that time.
Many later became the subject of government consultations (AASHTO)
The Code of Road Design (MUTCD) they developed
It became the cornerstone of urban design for the U.S. government.
Since 1956
Tens of billions of dollars in subsidies to build highways
that's all
Auto industry capitalists have spent decades
First create people’s demand for cars
Reshape people’s concept of right of way
Finally convinced the government to enact car-friendly legislation
Successfully made most people in society think that
Having a car equals freedom
The roads in the city are all made for cars
If you are afraid of being hit by a car
Just buy a car yourself.
No matter how many traffic accidents there are
They still adhere to the thinking of driving first.
Now we have to ask further
If the main road in the city
They are all for cars
Is this the best way to use it for the public?
Whether it's good or not depends on what our definition of good is.
So we have to ask what is the original intention of building a city?
in ancient greek times
People believed that personal happiness and city-state life were intertwined
Aristotle said
The relationship between citizens and the city-state is like that between a sailor and a ship
If every sailor only cares about where he wants to go
The ship can't go anywhere
Sailors must work together
The ship will move in the same direction
Citizens must invest in public affairs
Only then can everyone achieve happiness
Therefore, the center of life in the ancient Athens city-state was the Agora.
This is a place for everyone to discuss public affairs
It was here that Socrates used philosophy to inspire citizens to think.
But because it’s too provocative
Accused by nobles of corrupting youth
eventually sentenced to death
This reveals what a good city-state should look like
It is to create a public space for citizens to communicate.
Give people a place to have public discussions
This kind of space itself has the potential to subvert the old order.
By the time of ancient Rome
The first city in human history with a population of over one million appears
bustling public life
But many Roman emperors were overjoyed
After conquering a new location
Just build a majestic building
Demonstrate the glory of the empire
For example, after Emperor Trajan conquered the Dacia region
50,000 slaves were sold to raise the money to build the marble columns
Carve your own relief on it
The private interests of politicians trump the public interests of citizens
cause dissatisfaction among the people
At this time, the rulers built public facilities to divert the people's attention.
Public baths, Colosseum, hypermarkets
Let people focus on having fun
without thinking about what city-state life should be like
So the Roman poet Horace at that time lamented:
The Romans had forgotten the purpose of urban life
It's better to go back to the countryside and farm the fields.
After the fall of the Roman Empire
Many European cities also declined
Europe was facing barbarian invasions
Many cities have only defensive functions
Medieval churches became the center of urban life
These churches are deliberately designed to be
There is a vault on the ceiling
Makes you feel like you're rehearsing your ascension
I will raise my head unconsciously to see what heaven looks like
Church becomes a place that promises happiness
After death, people will find happiness in the next life
But after entering modern capitalist society
Europeans no longer believe happiness lies in the afterlife
Because happiness is in this world
Happiness was written into the Constitution when the United States was founded
Consider it part of the natural human rights
But what modern people call happiness
It’s different from the happiness the ancient Greeks talked about
happiness as the ancient greeks said
It’s because urban planning is good
Enable everyone to realize their potential
achieve self-actualization
But the happiness of modern people comes from the enlightenment thought
Enlightenment thinker Bentham believed that
Happiness is the balance of pleasure minus pain
Happiness can be quantified
Best use of space
It’s about maximizing happiness and minimizing pain.
If more lanes can make citizens feel more convenient
More shopping malls can make citizens feel happier shopping
Then this is a good city
This is the logic of capitalist cities
But at the same time, opposition also emerged
Believes that cities are not the source of happiness, but the source of misfortune
Because many crimes and epidemics occur in cities
For example, Bentham's student Robert Pemberton believed that
To establish a happy colony in the then unexplored New Zealand
This idea is the same as the speed school in the United States.
Believe that happiness can be achieved by escaping from the city
we will find
Contemporary people have completely moved away from the ancient Greek city-state ideal
If the original intention of building a city is to pursue public life and collective happiness,
Then we have to ask
Does allocating urban roads to cars achieve this goal?
The study found
People have different psychological feelings when using different means of transportation
Riding a bicycle is the happiest thing
Driving is second best
Taking the bus is the most unpleasant thing
Because it takes a long time to commute by car or bus
The average daily commute time for Taipei residents is one hour
The study found
People who drive an hour to commute
Earn 40% more salary
Life satisfaction will be the same as that of people who walk to work
People whose commute lasts more than 90 minutes
Prone to symptoms of anxiety and obesity
But single people
If you change from a long commute to walking to work
The psychological effect is equivalent to finding a new love
Apart from personal unhappiness
Spending too much time commuting can also reduce your social network
Less time for parents and children to spend time together
Because life is wasted commuting back and forth
Taipei drivers spend an average of 80 hours a year stuck in traffic jams
40th in the world
Taichung 78 Hours No. 51
Kaohsiung ranked 65th in 73 hours
If commuting by car creates so many negative emotions
But road design also serves the right of way for cars.
It makes people afraid to walk or ride bicycles to commute
This is tantamount to encouraging people to drive as much as possible
try to be as unhappy as possible
This kind of transportation system is actually very irrational.
But we didn't realize it
I thought driving was a symbol of freedom
But in fact you have been deprived of your freedom
Because you can only drive
no other choice
true freedom should be
I can walk if I want to walk today
If you want to ride a bicycle tomorrow, you can
If you want to drive the day after tomorrow, you can drive
The original intention of city construction is to pursue the collective happiness of citizens
But urban design that has exclusive rights of way for cars
Instead, it brings misfortune to most people
Is the traffic always slow on the road?
Then try this safe and fast NordVPN
NordVPN supports all major platforms
Available on Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, and iOS
After connection speed test, it is the fastest VPN in the industry
NordVPN lets you change your virtual location with just one click
Even if you are traveling or abroad, you can still use the Taiwan server
Unlock regional restrictions and bypass censorship blocks
If you are in Taiwan, you can also use your virtual location to connect to the streaming platform
Allows you to enjoy overseas discounts and watch content that cannot be seen in Taiwan
Now just click on the link in the information bar https://nordvpn.com/supery
Get exclusive discounts on NordVPN
There’s also a 30-day money-back guarantee
If we think of cities as products of humankind
The author of that city is the citizen of that town
Since everyone is a co-author
Having the right to shape what a city should look like
For example, roads are public property in the city.
But the way the roads are built
They are all asphalt roads in the middle.
People without cars can only walk on both sides
It is tantamount to allowing people in the car-owning class to enjoy exclusive privileges
Let people without cars risk their lives
in the screen
About 10 motorcycles were completely closed to pedestrians
Asking women to cross the road seems like they are fleeing
You can see on the screen
Several pedestrians slowly crossed the road hand in hand
suddenly
Two more schoolchildren rushed out from behind.
The white motorcycle cannot dodge
Knocked the two people away directly
79-year-old man holds umbrella as crutch
Walking on the zebra crossing to cross the road
But in an instant, a passenger car turned left and rushed out.
Knocked the old man to the ground
in England
The probability of poor children being killed on the road
28 times that of children from rich families
For the children of wealthy families, there is someone to take them to and from school.
But if the government doesn’t use taxpayers’ money to build lanes and highways,
Instead, use this money to build bus lanes, bicycle lanes, and sidewalks.
Most people can use it
It is equivalent to returning urban space to the citizens.
The author introduces several successful cases of "returning streets to the people" in the book
The first one is Copenhagen
a social experiment on stroget street in 1962
Issue a car ban
Want to emulate many ancient Italian cities
Cars are prohibited from entering the city
At that time, the common people thought that it was bad
This is Denmark, not Italy
We don't drink coffee outdoors
But after the experiment started
Things have changed
Citizens will go to the block to find a place to sit
The space that was originally a car
Now the crowds are starting to pour in
Local store business has improved
Because people like to join in the fun when they see a crowded place
Later the experimenter came to a conclusion
The more space you make for passers-by
There will be more passers-by
The more lanes you provide for cars
The more cars there will be
On the contrary, it is impossible to clear the traffic flow
Because there are more lanes
It will give the driver a psychological sense of security
Make him feel that he can drive more freely
Copenhagen’s city center is now filled with outdoor cafes
It's as if the public life of the ancient Athenian city-state reappeared
By the time of the energy crisis in the 1970s
Thousands of people take to the streets in Copenhagen to protest against car use
Call for bike lanes
The Danish government has established an efficient bicycle lane network
Nearly 40% of Copenhagen citizens now choose to ride bicycles
It’s not because the local people are more qualified
It’s because of urban lane design
Make cycling the most efficient
Another well-known case of returning the streets to the people is that of the mayor of Paris, Bertrand Delanoe.
He maintains that driving is an old 20th century mentality
You need to save a lot of money to buy a car
Enduring traffic jams and having difficulty finding a parking space
Paris is a small city
If everyone had a car
There is simply not enough space to park
So having a car does not bring freedom
Because every time you drive
It takes a lot of time to find a place to park.
People who own cars also need regular maintenance and repairs
In a big city, you still have to worry about your belongings being stolen from your car.
As a result, owning a car makes you become a slave to the car.
So what kind of freedom is this?
Actually what we want is not a car
But the car can bring freedom of movement
The value of a car is that it can move
But if you think about it carefully, you will find that
Most of the time every day
The cars are parked in the parking lot
Only when you are commuting
The car will move
On the contrary, this does not bring out the maximum value of the car.
What we need is actually the right to use mobile
rather than ownership
Even in a very capitalist society like the United States
Americans don’t buy from supermarket carts and take them home.
I only borrow a trolley when I go shopping in the supermarket
same
We can also put this idea of ​​access rights into commuting
So in 2007
The first public rental bicycle system in Paris is called Vélib'
It is the abbreviation of bicycle and freedom.
It means you don’t have to own a car
You can also feel free
Trying to change the American values ​​​​that people believe that "having a car equals freedom"
But according to the current situation in Taiwan
What if a large group of people suddenly switched to using YouBikes to commute to work?
More likely to be hit in the street
So we still have to consider
How to reduce traffic flow in cities
One method is to impose city entry fees on automobiles and motorcycles
London Mayor Ken Livingstone introduced a city entry fee for cars in 2003
Because driving into the city brings a lot of polluting greenhouse gases
These external costs should be paid to citizens
The money received can be used to subsidize public transport
This policy reduced traffic volume in central London by a quarter
In Stockholm, entry fees were high during the peak period.
It’s free during off-peak periods
This allows drivers to take to the road when there is no traffic jam
The policy of collecting entry fees has been successfully implemented in many European countries
Proved to be effective
Taipei City has nearly 720,000 vehicles from other counties and cities every day
If Taipei imposes a city entry fee for cars and motorcycles
Not only can it reduce traffic flow
It can also reduce air pollution and increase tax revenue.
If Taiwan wants to imitate other countries in imposing traffic congestion tolls
Is it feasible
Another incentive to drive less is to implement car-free days
in 2000
Bogotá Mayor Enrique Peñalosa conducts car-free day experiment
All private vehicles are banned from the streets
Only buses and taxis are left
As a result, for the first time in history
Children can safely ride their bicycles home after school
The number of people hospitalized in car accidents on this day was 1/3 less than usual.
Later, the citizens of Bogotá voted in a referendum to turn this day into a national anniversary.
Bogotá was originally a city with poor traffic conditions in the last century.
1,300 car accident deaths a year
But within just 3 years of implementing Car-Free Day,
Bogota gets a makeover
September 22nd is World Car-Free Day
But in Bogotá, the capital of Colombia
Every Sunday is car-free day
This kind of car-free day can give citizens a different imagination about the streets.
Feeling the "freedom of movement" is not just for car people
Later, the mayor of Bogota led the New York City reforms in 2006
Turn New York Times Square into a pedestrian zone
No vehicles allowed
Originally, Times Square in New York was only for cars.
Not like a tourist attraction
It's more like a roadblock
At that time, the mayor of New York was accused of launching a culture war when he promoted reforms.
They are among the few literary youths in Tuli who think that riding bicycles is fashionable.
All innovations will encounter resistance at the beginning.
Especially in the United States where driving is paramount
But time has proven
Returning the square space to pedestrians is the right decision
Today's video
We cover the rise of car rights of way
How the U.S. auto industry gradually popularized the concept of driving first
How to popularize the concept of driving first step by step
Revisiting the meaning of urban existence
It is to create collective citizen happiness
In terms of urban space utilization
Therefore, we cannot be exclusive in driving automobiles and motorcycles.
Finally, through examples from around the world
Copenhagen, London, Paris, Bogota, New York
Inspire us to think about how citizens can assert pedestrians’ right of way
Take back control of the city
Let Taiwan one day get rid of the title of "Pedestrian Hell"