My name is Tal Ben-Shahar and I'm a 
student and teacher in the science of 
happiness. My latest book is Happy 
Habits: A Happier, Healthier Life, One 
Minute at a Time. Today on Big Think, 
I'm going to talk about how small 
changes when consistently applied can 
make a big difference in your life. 
>> Thank you for watching Big Think. 
If you'd like to support our work, we 
encourage you to join our members 
community. As a member, you'll receive 
our quarterly print magazine, a 
beautifully designed collection of the 
ideas and interviews that matter most. 
Big Think is for curious people who want 
to take deep dives into big ideas. To 
support the media you want to see in the 
world, go to bigthink.com/membership. 
And now back to the interview. 
Chapter one, how to stop 
procrastinating when you're overwhelmed. 
The knowing doing gap is the disconnect 
that often exists between theory on the 
one hand and practice on the other. It's 
a gap I've witnessed time and again in 
my own life and in the lives of others. 
You see, most change efforts, whether 
personal or organizational, fall 
short because we misunderstand what it 
actually takes to bring about lasting 
change. When it comes to the question of 
how to create lasting change in our 
lives, it turns out that many of us were 
led astray by some of the most 
influential philosophers throughout 
history. Socrates, for instance, 
who's considered the father of western 
philosophy, believed that to know the 
good is to do the good. In other words, 
he assumed that once you know what the 
right thing to do is, you will do it. 
This assumption is sadly wrong. Not a 
little wrong, but very wrong. Knowing in 
and of itself does not guarantee doing. 
While knowing is an important and 
necessary first step, it is far from 
sufficient. Here are a few examples. 
Many people know the benefits of an 
active lifestyle, yet fail to exercise. 
Most people in developed countries know 
which foods are good for them and still 
consume junk in large quantities. We 
take much of what life has to offer for 
granted, not because we don't know 
that gratitude is better for us than 
ingratitude. Generally, we know how we 
ought to treat our child, our partner, 
or our colleagues. We know what to do, 
but all too often we fail to do it. The 
problem therefore is not lack of 
knowledge or even understanding but 
rather that this knowledge or 
understanding is not translated into 
acts and deeds. The knowing 
doing gap is something I've 
experienced on a very personal level. So 
after years of studying psychology and 
philosophy, it became clear to me that 
my knowledge and understanding of the 
good life far surpassed the actual 
quality of my inner life. If I were 
taking an exam on public speaking 
anxiety, raising happy kids, or the 
importance of assertively expressing 
one's needs and wants, I would ace that 
test. I had convincing, eloquent, and 
in most cases, correct answers to just 
about any question related to 
psychology. Moreover, I would usually be 
able to refer to research to support my 
claims. And yet in my day-to-day life, I 
experienced an acute fear of public 
speaking, made many unnecessary 
parenting mistakes, and very often 
avoided raising matters that were 
important to me because I dreaded the 
confrontation that might follow. While, 
as both the speaker and a parent, I'd 
come a long way since beginning my 
journey in the field of positive 
psychology, I knew I could do much 
better. It became clear to me that for 
myself and for others, the path to a 
happier, healthier, and more fulfilled 
life is not paved solely with additional 
knowledge. Rather, progress depends 
on finding better ways to apply the 
knowledge we already have in our daily 
lives. But how do we actually do that? 
How do we bridge the knowing doing gap? 
These are the questions I addressed in 
my book, Happy Habits, and these are 
the questions I hope to answer for you 
today. There are three common barriers 
that tend to get in the way of lasting 
change. First, the change we take 
on is often overly ambitious, too 
overwhelming, and therefore unlikely to 
stick. Second, many change efforts rely 
on interventions that may sound 
appealing but don't actually work. And 
third, there's the belief that simply 
knowing what we want to change and why 
we want to change it is enough to bring 
about real change. Think about the 
following questions. What action has 
contributed most to your happiness? 
Which tool or technique has made the 
biggest positive difference in your 
life? Which change have you introduced 
that significantly impacted your 
well-being? I'm often asked these 
questions as both a teacher and a 
student of happiness. My answer is that 
it is the bite-sized happy habits that I 
apply day in and day out. the small 
stuff, the brief interventions, the 
seemingly unremarkable changes that 
gradually transform my life as a whole. 
I call these happy habits minimum viable 
interventions or MVIS. A term that 
brings together Frank Robinson's idea of 
the minimum viable product or MVP from 
the business world with the concept of 
positive interventions which is central 
to the science of happiness. Robinson 
introduced the term MVP, minimum viable 
product in 2001 to describe a product 
that while far from finished is good 
enough to be put out there in the 
market. It allows the company that 
created the product to gather data 
and improve it over time while still 
delivering value to early adopters. In 
a similar way, an MVI is not the perfect 
intervention, but it is good enough and most 
importantly, it provides real value 
to those who practice it. Positive 
interventions, the second ingredient 
of MVIS, refer to the wide range of 
practices, tools, and techniques 
that contribute to a person's overall 
well-being. These include uh meditation, 
physical exercise, journaling, writing 
gratitude letters, strength spotting, 
active listening, time in nature, and 
many, many more. For something to 
qualify as a positive intervention, it 
needs to be evidence-based, well 
researched, and shown to measurably 
improve people's lives. The 
philosophical roots of the MVI approach 
go back much further to the 14th century 
and the work of William of Aam. His best 
known principle known as AAM's razor or 
the principle of parsimony suggests that 
the simplest solution is often the best 
solution. When we apply this idea to 
personal change, we arrive at a 
clear definition of minimal viable 
interventions. MVIS are actions that 
are as brief as possible and as long as 
necessary to bring about real 
significant and lasting change. Major 
interventions like a meditation retreat, 
a self-help intensive, a grueling boot 
camp, or even a honeymoon tend to have 
only a temporary effect, giving us a 
short spike in happiness before we 
return to baseline. In contrast, 
frequent and consistent micro doses of 
movement, mindful breathing, journaling, 
acts of kindness, or expressions of 
gratitude can lead to meaningful and 
lasting change. Personally, if I had to 
choose between, say, a 10-day meditation 
retreat once a year and 3 minutes of 
daily meditation, I would choose the 
latter. Even though the total time 
spent on a retreat is much greater, the 
consistent daily practice has a deeper, 
more lasting impact. Similarly, if you 
had to choose between running for an 
hour on the weekend or moving vigorously 
for 20 to 30 seconds a few times a day, 
you would likely benefit more from the 
short daily activity. Investing hours 
and even days in trying to bring about 
change often ends up having a momentary 
effect. In contrast, spread across time, 
moments add up to a momentous impact. 
Now, just so that I'm not misunderstood, 
I have nothing against major 
interventions. On the contrary, if we 
had unlimited time and patience, my 
recommendation would be absolutely to 
engage in both the big and the small 
stuff. The problem is that time is 
finite and most people don't have 
the bandwidth for both. As a result, 
they end up doing nothing. Why? because 
they believe that real change requires 
those big interventions and they 
don't have time for them. What 
they often don't realize is just how 
powerful micro interventions can be. I'm 
all for a 10day or even a 3month 
meditation retreat as long as it is not 
a standalone intervention. When it 
is life-changing, it's almost always 
because it's followed by consistent 
ongoing daily practice. The same is true 
for a week-l long self-help intensive. 
The real transformation comes from the 
rituals people carry into their everyday 
lives. Subsequently, some happy habits 
don't require extra time or effort 
because they can be tagged onto things 
we're already doing. For example, 
mindfully listening to our colleagues 
takes no more time than mindlessly 
sitting in a meeting. With a bit of 
practice, offering genuine compliments 
can become just as effortless as 
criticizing. And taking the stairs can 
take as much time or sometimes even less 
than waiting for the elevator unless 
you work in a skyscraper. Our ancestors 
didn't carve out time for formal gym 
sessions. Movement was simply woven into 
the fabric of daily life in brief 
natural inserts throughout the day. With 
little investment, these activities 
can make a big difference. 
There is a great deal of research behind 
each of the MVIS I suggest. Here are a 
few examples. Japanese professor RKU 
Yoshida had participants exercise their 
biceps by doing just one set a day of 
six hand curls. They repeated the single 
set 5 days a week over four weeks. The 
results showed an actual increase in 
muscle strength. By contrast, another 
group that did five sets of six curls on 
just one day a week rather than 
spreading the effort out experienced no 
increase in strength over the same 
period. Along similar lines, Dan 
Buettner, a researcher with National 
Geographic, who studied the blue zones, 
these are regions where people live the 
longest, recommends that for a longer 
life, we should regularly inconvenience 
ourselves. I love that term, 
inconvenience ourselves by choosing 
the stairs over the elevator, carrying 
groceries instead of having them 
delivered, or getting up to change the 
channel rather than using a remote. 
We engage in micro movements that help 
counter the harms of a sedentary 
lifestyle. These slight inconveniences 
contribute to a healthier, longer, 
and better life. From an evolutionary 
perspective, this makes a great deal of 
sense. Our bodies and minds are better 
suited to short, frequent interventions 
than to long infrequent ones. Studies 
from Stanford, the Mayo Clinic, the 
University of Pisa, and other research 
institutions show that even 1 minute of 
deep, slow nasal breathing, especially 
when the exhale is longer than 
the inhale. These can activate the 
parasympathetic nervous system rather 
than the sympathetic nervous system. In 
other words, it can shift us from fight 
or flight to rest and digest. Over time, 
this brief practice can help both 
children and adults bring more calm into 
their lives as a whole. Research by 
Harvard psychologist Ellen Langer, my 
teacher, illustrates how a small change 
in mindset can have a significant impact 
on performance. She asked students 
to evaluate intelligence of great 
scientists. At first, she shared only 
the scientists achievements. Based on 
that, students saw these figures as 
far superior and their achievements as 
unreachable. Later she gave students an 
account of the steps that led to those 
achievements. When the process was made 
visible, the students could suddenly 
imagine themselves following a similar 
path. As Ellen Langer put it, people 
can imagine themselves taking steps 
while great heights seem entirely 
forbidden. We can easily imagine 
ourselves taking a minute to climb 
stairs, breathe deeply, or send a 
thoughtful message. And when we can 
imagine ourselves doing something, we're 
much more likely to actually do it and 
to keep doing it. I've personally 
experienced the most significant 
increases in my happiness, not because 
of large dramatic changes, but rather 
through the seemingly small 
interventions I've introduced into my 
daily life. I'd like to share with you 
some of the things that I do. I get up 
and move for a minute every half hour or 
so when I'm writing. I take three deep 
breaths throughout the day. I count 
my blessings before going to bed and I 
regularly read brief inspiring texts, 
whether a poem or an excerpt from a 
book. The real change comes along when 
these interventions become habits. when 
they become second nature. The most 
unusual and in many ways the most 
eyeopening class that I took as an 
undergraduate was with psychology 
professor Richard Hackman. For years, 
Hackman taught the same course on the 
psychology of teams which I along with 
many other fortunate students had the 
opportunity to take. In the 
spring semester of um 1996, 
he did something different. He shared 
with his diehard students and there were 
many of us that he had become intrigued 
by the concept of spirals. One small 
event triggers another which then 
triggers another and so on creating an 
upward spiral that gradually expands its 
impact. Each week we examined spirals in 
a different context. From 
neural pathways to rainforests, 
from interpersonal relationships to 
organizational processes. Wherever we 
looked, we began to see spirals rather 
than straight lines, complex and 
interconnected systems rather than 
simple linear cause and effect 
relationships. Today I can trace my 
work on MVIS back to that class. Once we 
recognize that our world is primarily 
made up of spirals, we begin to 
understand why MVIS play such 
an important role in our overall 
well-being. Here's an example of how a 
seemingly insignificant event can set 
off an upward spiral with meaningful 
consequences. So imagine you walk into 
the office in the morning and the first 
colleague you see says, "Wow, you look 
wonderful." Naturally, a subtle smile 
appears on your face. Then the next 
colleague you run into observes the 
smile and also comments on how great or 
perhaps happy you look. You start 
to feel good. You engage in pleasant 
conversations and that positive energy 
carries into your work. You're more 
focused, more productive. You get home 
in a good mood and enjoy a fun evening 
with family or friends. It has been a 
great day. Now, imagine the opposite. 
You arrive at the office and the first 
thing someone says to you is, "Wow, you 
don't look well. Is Is everything okay?" 
Well, maybe everything was fine until 
that moment, but it's no longer. Your 
posture changes. Your energy drops. The 
next person picks up on that and 
responds in kind. You feel worse, 
withdraw a bit, struggle to focus, and 
carry that low energy home. By the end 
of the day, all you want is for it to 
be over. We often refer to a positive 
upward spiral as a virtuous cycle and 
a negative one as a vicious cycle. The 
examples I gave of a day at work 
illustrate just how much small events 
can and do matter. But what's important 
to remember is that unlike these 
scenarios, an upward spiral or a 
downward one doesn't have to begin with 
something external. We don't have to 
wait for someone else to determine our 
mood. We can initiate the spiral 
ourselves. As Christina Baldwin wrote, 
"When you're stuck in a spiral to change 
all aspects of the spin, you only need 
to change one thing. That one thing can 
be a happy habit and it can meaningfully 
shift the trajectory of your day. 
Take something as simple as expressing 
gratitude. Research by Robert Emmons and 
Michael McCullough shows that spending a 
minute or two each night reflecting on 
what we're grateful for improves our 
overall happiness, how successful we 
are, and even our physical health. How 
does such a small intervention make such 
a big difference? Because focusing on 
what's going well puts us in a better 
mood. And that mood makes it more likely 
that we'll take positive actions which 
then further elevate our mood and so on 
in a self-reinforcing upward 
spiral. Just as a single stone 
creates ripples across a pond or a 
single candle can light up an entire 
dark room, a single moment can 
positively shape an entire day. And 
because emotions are contagious, these 
effects don't stop with us. Our mood 
influences the people around us. When 
we're in a good mood, that energy tends 
to spread, creating additional ripples 
of positivity. Oprah Winfrey captures 
this beautifully when she says, "I 
started out giving thanks for small 
things, and the more thankful I became, 
the more my bounty increased." Here's 
another example of how an MVI can create 
a ripple effect. Imagine you're having a 
difficult day at work, feeling low 
and unmotivated. You introduce a brief 
intervention, say 30 to 60 seconds of 
jumping up and down. That small burst of 
movement gives you a bit more energy. 
You get a little more done, feel 
slightly better, and that leads to more 
positive experiences. By the time you 
get home, you're more likely to go out 
with friends than collapse in front of 
the TV, which is what you might have 
done if your mood had remained low. 
There is something both reassuring and 
empowering in realizing that we have 
some control over our well-being and 
that even brief accessible actions can 
shift the direction of a moment or an 
entire day. The fact that this control 
is at least in part internal is itself 
a source of positivity. Simply knowing 
that you can actively influence your 
state and change the trajectory of your 
day, whether through movement, a cold 
shower, a few minutes of journaling, or 
an act of kindness, is comforting 
in a way that goes beyond any single 
intervention. Moreover, knowing that 
small changes make a big difference in 
our lives can inspire us to help others 
do the same. Whether you are a manager, 
a parent, a colleague, a community 
member, you can influence your 
environment. How? By introducing 
these happy habits in your life and by 
encouraging others to introduce habits 
that make a difference in their lives. 
Happy habits can also create upward 
spirals in others. For example, holding 
the door, an act of kindness can elicit 
a smile which to that person will create 
an upward spiral ripple throughout their 
day. We can see how small changes can 
lead to significant transformation 
in the research on procrastination. 
Most people see themselves to 
some extent as procrastinators, 
putting things off, dragging their feet. 
The cost of procrastination is high. Not 
only do we fail to get important things 
done, we often compromise on the quality 
of what we eventually complete. 
On top of that, studies show that 
procrastinators experience higher levels 
of stress, have weaker immune systems, 
enjoy poorer sleep, and given all of 
this, report lower levels of happiness. 
As screen addiction becomes more 
pervasive, procrastination is only 
becoming more of a problem. When 
psychologists studied this phenomenon, 
they identified a key difference in 
mindset between those who procrastinate 
and those who tend to get things done. 
In simple terms, procrastinators believe 
that motivation must come 
before action. They feel they 
need to be inspired to want to 
act before they begin. Those who 
procrastinate less tend to see it the 
other way round. They understand that 
action comes first and motivation 
follows. In other words, you begin and 
the inspiration often catches up. As Amy 
Cuddy puts it, fake it until you become 
it. As an antidote to procrastination, 
researchers often recommend the 5 minute 
takeoff strategy. The idea is simple. 
Start doing the thing you've been 
putting off, even if only for a few 
minutes. Taking that small step, whether 
it's beginning a school project, 
starting a gym workout, or making a 
first phone call. This creates a 
momentum. 5 minutes often lead to 
another five and then another setting 
off an upward spiral of action. I use 
this technique often myself on days when 
I don't feel like writing. I rely on the 
5-minute takeoff. More often than not, 
once I begin, I find my rhythm and can 
continue for much longer. And if I 
don't, I simply do another 5-minute 
takeoff and then another as needed. Each 
one is an MVI. Mel Robbins takes this 
idea a step further with what she calls 
the five second rule. When there is 
something you want to do, whether it's 
getting out of bed, starting a workout, 
or making a call, you countdown from 5 
to 1, and then you act. I use this in my 
own life, especially on cold mornings 
or when I'm tempted to delay getting 
started for whatever reason. As Robins 
explains, the moment you feel yourself 
hesitate before doing something that you 
know you should do, count 5 4 3 2 1 go 
and move towards action. If you don't 
move in 5 seconds, your mental habits 
take over and kill your instinct to 
change, innovate, or step outside your 
comfort zone. What the 5 seconds rule 
does very quickly is initiate an upward 
spiral. Keep in mind that there is no 
need to stress about adopting all or 
even most of the MVIS. You certainly 
don't need to implement all the MVIS you 
know of. Not now and not even in the 
long term. Instead, start small. Pick 
two today. Try them out for a week or a 
month and then decide whether you want 
to continue with those or experiment 
with two others. As Jim Lore and Tony 
Schwarz put it, incremental change 
is better than ambitious failure. 
Success feeds on itself. When 
it comes to implementation, 
less maybe more. Once you understand 
the idea, the principle behind minimum 
viable interventions, you can 
incorporate it throughout your life and 
help others do the same. Try things 
out. Experiment. Gandhi wrote his 
autobiography naming it my experiments 
with truth. I encourage you to do the 
same. Experiment with different truths, 
with different things that work for you. 
Try them out for size, bite-size, and 
see what works. Over time, you will 
get closer and closer to the best 
version of yourself, one small happy 
habit at a time. Chapter 2. 
The essential elements of 
happiness.
>> According to Aristotle, happiness  
is the most desirable of all things, something
final and self-sufficient, and is the end  
of action. Echoing the sentiment
more than 2,000 years later. Helen  
Keller wrote that most of us regard
happiness as the proper end of all  
earthly enterprise. This idea is by no
means limited to the West. If happiness  
is the ultimate end, then all other
goals are in a sense subordinate to it in  
our context. This means that MVIS are
also a means towards that end. That  
their purpose is to increase our levels
of happiness. This is precisely why I refer  
to MVIS as happy habits. And if we
want to understand how MVIS can  
play their role most effectively, we first
need to better understand the nature of happiness. 
Integrating the wisdom of 
philosophers like Aristotle, 
Lao-Tzu, Helen Keller, and Martha 
Nussbaum with the research of modern 
psychologists like Martin 
Seligman and Sonya Lubomirski. 
My colleagues and I developed a model 
of happiness that includes five core 
elements. Spiritual well-being, physical 
well-being, intellectual well-being, 
relational well-being, and emotional 
well-being. Together, these form the 
acronym spire. They offer a clear and 
accessible road map for understanding, 
pursuing and attaining happiness. What's 
important to remember is that all five 
elements of spire are interconnected. 
They function as a system. This leads to 
two insights that may seem contradictory 
but actually complement one another. 
First, we need to attend to all five 
elements. if we want to experience true 
happiness. Second, working on any one element can 
improve our overall well-being. The 
first point means that neglecting even 
one element can undermine our happiness 
no matter how much we invest in the 
others. For example, if we ignore our 
physical health, it will eventually take 
a toll regardless of how strong our 
relationships are or how intellectually 
engaged we may be. And the reverse 
is also true. Frequent exercise and 
meditation cannot compensate for 
neglected relationships. The second 
point reminds us that small consistent 
changes can have a powerful impact. In 
the spirit of good enough, which is 
central to the MVI approach, there's no 
need to do everything. It's perfectly 
fine to choose a few practices that fit 
your needs and preferences. Even 
focusing on one or two simple habits and 
sticking with them can lead to 
meaningful results over time. So, how do 
you decide where to begin? by looking 
at your life through the spire lens and 
identifying what is essential for your 
well-being versus what is simply nice to 
have. For instance, if your work already 
involves a lot of movement, you may not 
need additional physical MVIS. If you're 
deeply engaged in academic learning, you 
may not need to add intellectual 
practices. And if you're already 
practicing yoga regularly, extra 
meditation or stretching might add only 
marginal value. On the other hand, if 
you spend most of your day sitting, 
introducing small movement-based habits 
can make a real difference. If your 
routine lacks intellectual stimulation, 
brief moments of learning can be highly 
valuable. And if your days are filled 
with distraction and multitasking, 
creating small pockets of mindfulness 
can significantly improve both your 
mental and physical health. 
Spiritual well-being is about purpose 
and presence, about finding meaning and 
being mindful. We may find this through 
religion, but also through our work or 
our home life. Viktor Frankl, author of 
man's search for meaning, distinguishes 
between the meaning of life and the 
meaning in life. The meaning of life includes big
questions like why am I here and uh what is  
the purpose of life? Many people look
for answers in religion or in a broader  
mission such as uh overcoming poverty or
addressing global challenges. While it  
can be difficult to find the meaning of
life, it is often easier to find meaning  
in life in the ordinary things that we
do each day. Take a minute or two to  
respond in writing to this question.
What do I find meaningful in what I'm  
already doing? Reflect on what matters
to you in your daily activities and on  
how you may be making a difference in
your own life or in the lives of others.  
The answer doesn't need to be grand.
Whether you begin your day with this  
question or return to it during a short
break, identifying even a modest sense  
of purpose can energize, motivate, and
inspire. Another MVI under spiritual well-being 
revolves around mindfulness meditation. 
At its core, mindfulness is about 
present moment awareness, about being in 
the here and now. It's a broad concept 
that includes many different practices. 
The most familiar form involves sitting 
or lying down and focusing 
on the breath as it moves in 
and out. But that's only one option. 
Walking while paying attention to each 
step, lying down and scanning your body, 
praying with intention, or listening to 
music with full attention are all 
forms of meditation. There are numerous 
benefits to establishing a meditation 
practice. Research by Jon Kabat-Zinn, 
Richard Davidson, Sarah Lazar, and 
others shows improvements in cognitive 
function, including attention, memory, 
and creativity, as well as benefits to 
physical health, such as strengthening 
the immune system and reducing 
inflammation, and to mental health, 
including lowering anxiety, anger, and 
depression. While many of these benefits 
are associated with longer sessions, 
shorter practices can also be highly 
effective. Daniel Seagull, for example, 
recommends as little as 3 minutes a 
day, noting that the brain responds to 
repetition with more gusto than it does 
to duration. Even one minute of focusing 
on the breath, noticing the air 
moving through your nostrils 
or your belly rising and falling can 
have a meaningful impact. Another simple 
practice is to scan a tense area of your 
body such as uh maybe the forehead or 
shoulders, uh your chest or your belly 
and then consciously relaxing it. 
Breathing out any accumulated tension. 
A minute of this kind of mindful 
relaxation can significantly increase 
your sense of calm. You can stick with 
one method or experiment with several. 
You might begin your day with a short 
meditation and then add brief moments 
during lunch, before bed, or whenever 
you need a pause. It is important to 
note that meditation can be practiced 
formally or informally. Formal practice 
means setting aside dedicated time for 
present moment awareness. Informal 
practice means bringing that same 
awareness into everyday activities. 
Whether you're writing, uh, playing with 
a pet, working on a spreadsheet, or 
listening to a friend, we can be mindful 
anywhere at any time. As Alicia 
Goldstein writes in the now effect, 
mindfulness is basically just being 
aware and can be practiced both 
informally and formally. When you're 
practicing it informally, you're simply 
attempting to be more aware in 
everything that you do. When we're 
present, whatever we're doing, 
we elevate the ordinary to the 
extraordinary. As Thích Nhất Hạnh
reminds us, at any moment you have a  
choice that either leads you closer to
your spirit or further away from it.  
Throughout the day, gently return your
focus to the present moment. Create  
reminders to help you come back to the
here and now. These reminders can take  
many forms. You might set your phone to
ping you periodically or place the word now  
on your screen or hang an image that
reminds you to pause. Over time,  
with these reminders, returning to the
present will become second nature to you. 
Physical well-being focuses on the 
mind body connection. Both movement and 
recovery are essential for a healthy 
body and mind. What we eat, how much we 
eat, and how we eat all matter deeply, 
not just for physical health, but for 
mental health as well. Movement is 
essential to our well-being. In a study 
conducted at the University of 
Cambridge, participants were pinged on 
their smartphones and asked how active 
they had been over the previous 15 
minutes. Researchers found that those 
who had moved during that time were 
happier than those who had been sitting 
or lying down. More broadly, movement 
was associated with greater overall life 
satisfaction. It's also well established 
that beyond its physical benefits, 
aerobic exercise contributes 
significantly to mental health, helping 
us cope with anxiety and depression. 
More recent research highlights 
the value of high-intensity 
interval training, HIT, and high-intensity 
circuit training, HIC. These approaches 
involve short bursts of intense 
movements followed by recovery repeated 
in cycles. They are highly efficient, 
delivering meaningful health benefits 
in a relatively short time. Importantly, 
studies show that these bursts don't 
need to be done consecutively. They can 
be spread throughout the day with the 
benefits remaining strong even when 
there are long breaks between sets. For 
example, in a study using the Wingate 
Anaerobic test, participants performed 
three high-intensity bursts per day with 
4 hours between each session. After 8 
weeks of doing this every other day, 
their peak oxygen uptake, a key measure 
of aerobic capacity, increased by 14%. 
Given this and similar findings, the 
common excuse that we don't have enough 
time to exercise no longer holds. Often 
all we need is a minute here and there 
to meet recommended activity levels. 
If you're over 40 or have any medical 
condition, it's important to consult 
your doctor before starting a HIT 
routine. And if HIT isn't appropriate, 
you can turn to lit low intensity 
interval training, such as walking, 
climbing stairs, or moving your arms 
through the day. Movement affects more 
than happiness. Increasingly, physicians 
warned that sitting is the new smoking. 
Spending long hours without movement 
significantly raises the risk of chronic 
disease. Taking all of this together, it 
can be extremely valuable to sprinkle 
brief 20 to 40 second bursts of movement 
throughout your day. You might sprint 
in place, do jumping jacks, skip rope, 
perform push-ups, pull-ups, or planks, 
or try lunges, burpees, or any activity 
that elevates your heart rate. Adjust 
the pace and intensity based on your 
fitness level and age. This isn't a 
race, and there is nothing to prove. You 
don't need to push to extremes to gain 
meaningful benefits. Another MVI perhaps 
less pleasant but highly effective is 
taking a cold shower. Research by Gear 
Buyer from the Academic Medical Center 
in Amsterdam points to the impact of 
cold exposure on the immune system, 
helping reduce illness and speed 
recovery. Cold showers also increase 
metabolism, boost energy, and improve 
alertness. After exercise, they can 
reduce pain and support muscle recovery. 
There is even evidence suggesting 
benefits for symptoms of depression and 
anxiety. One simple practice is to end a 
warm shower with at least 30 seconds of 
cold water. You can gradually extend 
this to a minute or two, but even 30 
seconds is beneficial. One of the most 
powerful happy habits is quite literally 
right under your nose and yet 
often overlooked, your breath. 
By learning to regulate your breathing, 
you can influence your nervous system, 
either energizing or calming yourself. 
In general, slow breathing relaxes while 
rapid breathing stimulates. The ratio 
between inhale and exhale also matters. 
A longer inhale activates the 
sympathetic system increasing arousal 
while a longer exhale activates the 
parasympathetic system promoting 
relaxation. Simply breathing slowly, 
gently, quietly, and mindfully can make 
a big difference. Even a minute of 
steady breathing through your nose, 
allowing the belly to rise and 
fall, that can shift you from the 
fight or flight response to what 
Herbert Benson calls the relaxation 
response. Another effective technique is coherent
breathing. Inhaling through the  
nose for five to six seconds
and exhaling for the same amount of  
time. Even a minute of this, 5 to 6
seconds in, 5 to 6 seconds out,  
can help reduce anxiety and fatigue, promoting
both calm and alertness. While 5 to 20 minutes  
a day of breath work is ideal,
even a minute or two can make  
a difference. Set reminders on your phone
or calendar to pause for a minute of breath  
work, three or four times a day.
Experiment with these and other  
techniques to find what works best for
you. Intellectual well-being is often 
overlooked. Yet, it plays a critical 
role in our happiness. It begins with 
curiosity, with asking questions, 
exploring, and learning new things. 
Curiosity is not only linked to how well 
we live, but also to how long we live. 
It's also about learning, whether 
through books, art, or nature. Words 
create worlds. Concepts 
conceive. The words we think 
about and use shape our lives and the 
lives of those around us. Researchers 
Andrew Newberg and Mark Waldman write in 
their book, Words Can Change Your Brain, 
that a single word has the power to 
influence the expression of genes that 
regulate physical and emotional stress. 
They point to studies to research 
showing that the longer you concentrate 
on positive words, the more you begin to 
affect other areas of the brain, 
functions in the parietal lobe start to 
change, which changes your perception 
of yourself and the people you interact 
with. One simple practice is to come up 
with a mantra, a single word that moves 
you and repeat it once or several times 
for a minute or two in the morning or 
throughout the day. Choose a word that 
inspires you that brings up positive 
thoughts and feelings such 
as God or grandmother, love 
or kindness, presence or acceptance. 
Going beyond a single word, you can 
identify a quote that inspires you, a 
poem that moves you, or a paragraph that 
elevates you. Read it slowly and deliberately, 
reflecting on what it means to you 
and how it connects to your life. Then 
revisit it the next day and each day 
after for a week or longer. This can 
even become a shared practice with 
someone close to you. If the words 
continue to resonate, print them out, 
hang them on your wall, or use them as a 
screens saver. Once again, words create 
worlds. Journaling is another practice 
that truly deserves a place in the MVI 
Hall of Fame. Karen Horney, a student 
and critic of Sigmund Freud, made a 
strong case for journaling in her 1942 
book, Self-analysis. While 
self-analysis is not a substitute 
for therapy, it is an effective 
and accessible tool for reducing 
psychological distress and 
supporting personal growth. In 1997, 
University of Texas psychologist 
Pennebaker published Opening Up, 
presenting compelling research on 
journaling. He found that writing for 20 
minutes about the most upsetting or 
traumatic experience of your entire life 
over four consecutive days 
significantly reduced long-term anxiety. 
strengthened the immune system, improved 
mood, and led to more open and social 
behavior. More recently, psychologists 
Chad Burton and Laura King extended this 
work by exploring the minimum effective 
dose of journaling. In their study, 
participants wrote for just two minutes 
on two consecutive days. So, a total of 
four minutes. One group wrote about 
traumatic experiences, another about 
positive experiences and a third about 
a neutral topic. One month later, 
participants in the first two groups 
still showed better health than those in 
the control group. While writing for 15 
or 20 minutes can be powerful, even 2 
minutes can go a long way. Relational 
well-being is about our deep-seated need 
for social interaction. The number one 
predictor of happiness is the quality 
time we spend with people we care about 
and who care about us. We all need 
connection and a sense of belonging. One 
of the most powerful ways to cultivate 
that is through kindness and generosity. 
When we give to others, we enhance their 
well-being and our own. In a fascinating 
series of studies, John Gottman found 
that the healthiest relationships maintain a 5:1 
positivity ratio. In other words, for 
every one conflict, disagreement or 
moment of frustration, there 
are five positive interactions. 
Compliments, loving messages, a smile, a 
hug, or a meaningful conversation. What 
makes this ratio so useful? Well, first 
it tells us that conflict is not only 
inevitable but necessary. Avoiding 
or suppressing real issues can harm a 
relationship over time. Second, it shows 
us that for relationships to thrive, 
positive interactions must significantly 
outnumber negative ones. Based on his 
findings, Gottman suggests focusing 
more on increasing the positive than on 
eliminating the negative. One way to 
do it is through relationship boosters. 
Small everyday actions that increase 
positivity in our interactions. An act 
of kindness, a hug, or a thoughtful 
message letting someone know you 
appreciate them can go a long way. 
A particularly important category of 
boosters is genuine, heartfelt 
compliments. Actively look for positive 
things to say to the people in your 
life. Don't wait for special occasions. 
As Mark Twain quipped, I can live on a 
good compliment two weeks with nothing 
else to eat. So, make a list of 
relationship boosters you'd like to 
introduce, both at home and at work, and 
begin to sprinkle them into your daily 
interactions. There are countless ways 
to raise the positivity ratio. Choose 
the ones that resonate most with you. 
A hug is one of the most powerful 
relational MVIS. Too many people in too 
many places have lost touch with touch. 
This was true even before CO and in many 
ways it has only intensified as virtual 
interactions increasingly replace 
physical ones. One simple antidote is 
hugging. Virginia Satir famously wrote, 
"We need four hugs a day for survival. 
We need eight hugs a day for 
maintenance. We need 12 hugs a day for 
growth." Her words are not just poetic. 
There is growing scientific evidence 
supporting the importance of touch. 
Psychologist Jane Clipman asked college 
students to add five extra hugs to 
their day. These hugs were defined as 
nonsexual face-to-face hugs using both 
arms. While women found this easier at 
first, men also found creative ways to 
participate, whether through sports, 
family interactions, or other contexts. 
After 1 month, participants who 
increased their hugging were 
significantly happier than those who did 
not. Other research by Anna Duran and 
her colleagues at the University of 
London shows that duration matters as 
well. A five or 10 second hug offers 
more benefits than a brief 1 second 
embrace. When we hug, we release 
oxytocin, the love hormone, which 
improves our mood and reduces stress. 
What's most important is that both 
people feel comfortable and respected. 
When touch is consensual and boundaries 
are honored, both individuals benefit. 
So, look for ways to gently and 
respectfully incorporate more touch into 
your day when appropriate. Allow the hug 
to last a little longer. Relax into it. 
Notice the sensations and appreciate 
both yourself and the other person. 
Another MVI has to do with being kind. 
To give is to receive. One of the most 
effective ways to increase our own 
happiness is by contributing to the 
happiness of others. Why is that? First, 
because it is part of our nature to feel 
good when we do good. Second, giving 
tends to strengthen our relationships. 
And as our relationships improve, so 
does our happiness. In her research, 
Sonya Lubomirski asked participants to 
perform a few extra acts of kindness 
each week, being slightly more generous 
than usual. These acts ranged from 
helping a colleague at work to spending 
a bit more time listening to a friend, 
volunteering, or simply being kind to a 
stranger. This small intervention led to 
a meaningful increase in well-being. 
And the beauty of kindness is that it is 
always available to us. As Anne 
Frank wrote back in the 1940s, 
you can always always give something 
even if it is only kindness. 
Kindness benefits the receiver, the 
giver and the world. It is in fact easy 
to be kind. Generosity is part of our 
nature. All we need is a reminder. So 
commit to five or more extra acts of 
kindness each week. You can do them all 
in one day or spread them out. They can 
be planned or spontaneous. And just as 
importantly, remember to treat yourself 
with the same kindness you extend to 
others. Emotional well-being. The final element 
of spire involves embracing painful 
emotions and cultivating pleasurable 
ones. Giving ourselves the permission 
to be human, allowing ourselves to feel 
anxiety, sadness, envy or anger is 
essential. The first step towards 
happiness is allowing in unhappiness. 
The belief that we or anyone else can 
live without painful emotions is 
misguided as well as harmful. In fact, 
it may be the greatest barrier to 
happiness. The paradox is that when we 
reject painful emotions, they intensify. 
They grow stronger. When we accept them, 
they begin to dissipate. It is only when 
we accept that fear, anger, sadness, and 
envy are natural parts of being 
alive that we can fully realize our 
psychological and physical potential. 
Life becomes lighter and more peaceful 
when instead of fighting our nature, 
we embrace it. Pain, pleasure, and 
everything in between. The key to 
acceptance is to bear witness to our 
emotions without judgment, without 
trying to fix them or push them 
away. As Mark Williams from Oxford 
suggests, it's about observing our 
thoughts and physical sensations 
with friendly curiosity. 
As we do this, the emotion may simply 
pass through us and fade or it may 
linger a bit longer, in which case we 
continue to hold it with openness and 
compassion. The key to 
acceptance is loving awareness. 
You can practice this kind of acceptance 
at set times, perhaps for a minute or 
two in the morning or before going to 
sleep. Or you can practice it in real 
time whenever the need arises. For 
example, if you feel anxious before a 
presentation or envious before seeing 
a friend, pause for a moment and simply 
observe what is happening inside 
you, your thoughts, your sensations, 
and do so with loving awareness and 
without judgment. Expressing gratitude 
is another powerful emotional MVI. In 
a study by Robert Emmens and Michael 
McCullith, participants were asked to 
write down five things, big or small, 
for which they were grateful. Over time, 
those who continued the practice became 
more joyful, more energetic, and more 
helpful to others. They also slept 
better and experienced fewer physical 
symptoms of illness. The word 
appreciate, which is my favorite word, 
has two meanings. To be grateful for 
something and to increase in value. 
These two meanings of the word are 
deeply connected. For when we appreciate 
the good, the good appreciates. 
Make gratitude a ritual. You can write 
your entries at night before bed or in 
the morning when you wake up. You can 
also do this at the end of the workday, 
focusing on what went well at work. 
This simple practice can have a powerful 
impact on both performance and job satisfaction. 
Whether you do it daily or even once 
a week, the key is to be both mindful 
and heartful. It's not enough to go 
through the motion. You need to connect 
with what you're writing. If you write 
about a good friend, bring that person 
vividly to mind. Feel their presence. 
Maybe recall a specific moment you 
shared. When gratitude becomes a habit, 
you no longer need a special event to 
feel happy. You begin to see that there 
is so much in your life and in the world 
worth appreciating. Many of the MVIS 
we've discussed elevate our emotional 
state. In that sense, this final happy 
habit brings them all together. A 
pleasure booster is a small intentional 
activity that lifts your mood. It might 
be closing your eyes for a minute and 
picturing someone you love, listening to 
a favorite song, savoring a bite of 
food, reading a meaningful poem, playing 
with your dog, or watching a short funny 
video clip. Introduce these moments into 
your life regularly. As Nathaniel 
Brandon wrote, "Pleasure for man is not 
a luxury but a profound psychological 
need." To truly benefit from these 
pleasure boosters, we need to stop or 
at least slow down, even if only for 30 
seconds or a minute. Make a list of 
small activities that elevate your mood 
and begin to weave them into your day, 
your week, your month. In doing so, 
you'll not only enhance your experience 
of life, but also enjoy the many 
benefits that come with it. All the MVIS 
that I recommend are evidence-based and 
supported by research. Research however 
cannot tell you exactly which happy 
habits you should introduce into your 
life. Research generally gives us truths 
about the collective. It does not 
offer precise prescriptions for each 
individual to decide which happy habits 
are right for you. Study the research 
and then engage in me search. Look 
inside. Explore your personal needs and 
experiment. Beyond experimenting with 
the MVIS in this book, come up with your 
own happy habits and learn from what 
others are doing. In her article, 17 one 
minute habits that will change your 
life. Holistic health coach Josie Shanti 
recommends habits I have not included 
today, but that may work well for you, 
such as making your bed, fixing your 
posture, and adding leafy greens to your 
meal. Writer Dara Kanlaya suggests not 
picking up your phone the moment you 
open your eyes in the morning. Instead, 
he recommends spending that first minute 
purposefully doing something that works 
for you. He writes, "It will set the 
tone for the rest of the day and help 
you be more productive, positive, and 
mindful." The key is to keep engaging in 
research, whether you're deciding which 
happy habits to try or what time of day 
to practice them. So study the research, 
conduct your research, and let's get to work.
>> Chapter 3, the three Rs of meaningful change. 
>> In order to bridge the gap between 
knowing and doing, between an idea and 
its implementation, we can turn to 
the history of religion. Theologians 
throughout the ages recognized the 
gap between theory and practice and 
developed ways to bridge it. If the goal 
is virtuous action, then knowledge is 
only the beginning. Thousands of years 
of religious practice along with more 
recent research in psychology and 
neuroscience point to the same 
conclusion. The three Rs. Reminders, 
repetition, and rituals are essential 
for creating real and lasting change. 
In the context of change, reminders are 
external cues in our environment that 
help focus our attention on a commitment 
we've made. Some reminders are simple 
and straightforward. Others are a bit 
more creative. For example, a bracelet 
that you wear regularly can serve as a 
reminder to return to the present moment 
and engage in informal meditation. A 
spiritual well-being MVI. If you want 
to incorporate regular high-intensity 
exercise bursts, a physical well-being 
MVI, you can set your phone to ping 
every couple of hours. A quote on your 
screen saver can prompt you to pause and 
reread meaningful words. An intellectual 
well-being MVI. A picture of your mother 
or of Mother Teresa can remind you to 
engage in acts of kindness, a relational 
well-being MVI. And your daily planner 
can cue you to express gratitude, an 
emotional well-being MVI, at the end of 
each day. Within religious traditions, 
reminders appear in many forms. Take 
prayer for example. While it is central 
to most religions, its primary function 
is not to generate new knowledge, 
especially once the words are familiar. 
Rather, prayer serves as a reminder of 
the values and changes a religion seeks 
to cultivate in both the individual and 
the community. Another example is 
religious holidays. Catholics observe 
St. Augustine Day on August 28 as a way 
of reconnecting with Augustinian values. 
For Jews, Passover serves as a reminder 
of the journey from slavery to freedom. 
And simply attending services in a 
temple, church, or mosque offers ongoing 
reminders through words, music, and 
imagery of the beliefs and behaviors 
each tradition aims to instill. We can 
think of reminders in two categories. 
Those that target our attitudes and 
those that target our behaviors. 
Attitude reminders focus on our internal 
world, our thoughts and feelings. For 
instance, I might remind myself that I'm 
kind, that I accept my emotions, that I 
appreciate the good in myself and 
others, or that I'm a loving parent. 
Behavior reminders, on the other hand, 
focus on our actions. I might need a 
reminder to uh donate to charity, to 
exercise, to breathe deeply, or to 
listen patiently when my children are 
speaking. Of course, these two types of 
reminders are closely connected. In many 
cases, there are simply two sides of the 
same coin, reinforcing one another. 
Reminding myself to be a loving parent 
goes hand-in-hand with reminding myself 
to listen patiently. Seeing myself as 
self-confident can support and be 
supported by my ability to say no to 
things that don't align with my values 
and setting a reminder to donate to 
charity each Friday while also reminding 
myself that I'm a caring person. both 
serve the same broader goal 
of increasing kindness. 
Regular reminders can pave the way to 
repetition, which is of course essential 
for lasting change. Becoming physically 
stronger takes time. It doesn't happen 
overnight or even over a month. 
Journaling once or twice can certainly 
help. But the real benefits of 
self analysis emerge when we do it 
consistently. Introducing 
relationship boosters for a 
week or two is unlikely to transform 
your relationships or your life. And 
giving yourself permission to be human 
has to be an ongoing practice. Sporadic 
reminders are not enough. Both attitude 
and behavior reminders need to be 
activated regularly and consistently to 
have a lasting impact. This is why most 
religions encourage daily prayers, 
weekly services, and the repeated 
celebration of holidays year after year 
without repetition of both actions and 
words. New behaviors and attitudes 
simply don't stick. If you repeatedly 
commit acts of kindness, you become 
kinder over time. If you consistently 
engage in physical exercise, you not 
only become fitter, you also begin to 
internalize the value of exercise, 
making it more likely that you'll 
continue. And if you regularly express 
love, whether by listening more 
attentively or hugging more often, you 
become more loving. As philosopher Will 
Durant put it, we are what 
we repeatedly do. The same 
is true for words. When you repeat 
certain words, you gradually internalize 
them and they become part of who you are. 
Eknath Easwaran, who taught the first 
academic course on meditation 
in the United States in 1968, 
suggested that part of a daily 
meditation practice should include a 
passage that is meaningful and 
inspiring. With each repetition, he 
writes, we drive these words deeper 
and deeper into our subconscious. He 
describes this as the essence of meditation, 
the secret of meditation. We become what 
we meditate on. What our parents and 
teachers say to us and what we then 
internalize and repeat to ourselves 
often determines who we become. Tell a 
child she's capable and worthy and she's 
more likely to become so. Unfortunately, 
the opposite is also true. We can 
generate upward spirals in our life 
and in the life of others by carefully 
choosing the words that we repeat. 
When you introduce reminders and 
repetition into your life, you move 
closer to the promised land of change, 
the cultivation of rituals. A ritual 
develops when a neural pathway 
associated with a particular behavior or 
thought pattern is formed in the brain. 
The pathway begins to guide you leading 
you to act or think in a certain way at 
a certain time. For example, after 
repeatedly reminding yourself to return 
to the present moment, being present 
becomes second nature. After taking cold 
showers for a month or two, your body 
starts to adapt and may even begin to 
crave the experience. Reading and 
rereading texts slowly and deliberately 
over time builds both the ability and 
the desire to engage deeply not just 
with texts but with life. When an 
activity or a way of thinking is 
repeated often enough, it becomes a 
habit, a ritual. It no longer requires 
special effort. Instead, it becomes an 
effortless part of your everyday life. 
As Frederick Langbridge writes, "We are 
our own potters, for our habits make us, 
and we make our habits." A thought, a 
feeling or behavior becomes ritualized 
when you do it automatically without 
needing prompts, prods or persuasion. 
For a devout person, appreciating a 
piece of bread or saying grace before a 
meal is often second nature, as is 
giving to charity, turning to God for 
forgiveness, or observing religious 
holidays. While religion is 
intentionally structured to cultivate 
rituals, we all have rituals outside of 
religion as well. Brushing our teeth 
in the morning, putting on a seat belt, 
watering plants, or feeling warmth when 
we see a photo of a loved one's. These 
rituals are shaped less by understanding 
and more by reminders and repetition. 
Most of us were told why brushing our 
teeth matters, but it was the repeated 
reminders from our parents that actually 
turned it into a daily ritual. In short, 
reminders create awareness. 
Repetition builds the pathway and 
rituals make it automatic. Aristotle 
whom I consider the father of 
the field of happiness studies claimed 
that human beings are rational animals. 
Philosophers and psychologists 
throughout history have questioned 
Aristotle's claim. In research that 
earned him the Nobel Prize in economics, 
Daniel Kahneman challenged the 
rationality assumption, pointing to the 
many irrational decisions we make 
and biases and errors that shape our 
thinking. Earlier still, in a 
treaties of human nature, 18th century 
philosopher David Hume attempted to 
dethrone reason somewhat ironically 
through a series of rational arguments. 
He concluded that reason is and ought 
only be the slave of the passions and 
can never pretend to any other office 
than to serve and obey them. So what are 
we really? Are we rational animals or 
are we emotional ones? Well, Aristotle 
was uh partially right. We're certainly 
capable of rational thought and some 
of our decisions are guided by reason. 
At the same time, Kahneman's research and 
Hume's arguments make a compelling case 
for us being emotional animals. If not 
the dominant force, emotions are at 
least among the defining features of our 
nature. After all, many of the choices 
we make or avoid are driven by how 
we feel. But there is still a missing 
piece, especially when it comes to 
change. In addition to being rational 
and emotional, we're also creatures of 
habit. And it turns out that to bridge 
the knowing doing gap and realize our 
potential for growth, we need to pay 
close attention to this third dimension 
of who we are. As Francis Bacon 
observed, nature to be commanded must 
be obeyed. In other words, if we want to 
make the most of our lives, we need to 
work with our nature, not against it. 
When we ignore or dismiss part of who 
we are, including our deeply habitual 
nature, we limit our ability to grow. 
It is only by acknowledging our full 
nature, rational, emotional, 
habitual, that we can truly flourish. 
To understand why we need to work with 
our nature as creatures of habit, it 
helps to look at the idea of rhetorical 
choices which stem from rhetorical 
questions. A rhetorical question is 
usually asked for effect where the 
answer is obvious. If you ask a child 
whether he wants you to get angry, the 
answer is clear. Of course, he doesn't. 
If you ask someone whether she wants to 
be happy, again the answer is obvious. A 
rhetorical choice follows directly from 
such a question. Presenting options were 
a better choice seems self-evident. Take 
this example. Do you want to appreciate 
your loved ones or do you prefer to take 
them for granted? Well, I doubt 
anyone would say they've had enough of 
appreciating their family and friends 
and are now ready to ignore them. And 
yet, most people most of the time end up 
taking their loved ones for granted. Or 
consider another rhetorical choice. Do 
you prefer to treat your loved ones with 
kindness and patience or with impatience 
and unkindness? Very few people, if any, 
would consciously choose the latter. And 
yet, we can all recall moments when we 
reacted harshly or insensitively and 
later regretted it. So why do we so 
often make poor choices when the better 
option is so clear? Because neither the 
rational side of our nature nor the 
emotional side on their own is enough to 
determine our actions. The reason we 
don't make better choices even when the 
right choice is obvious is not 
that we're not smart or that 
we're not good people. Rather, it is 
because we forget. And the three Rs are 
the antidote to our forgetfulness 
starting with reminders through 
repetition and arriving at 
rituals. So the question is 
which MVI are you going to introduce in 
your life? Which reminders will you put 
in place? Which actions will you repeat? 
And which rituals will you begin to 
cultivate starting today? 
What are you going to do? 
There are MVIS you can do on a 
plane when you're sardined in. 
Four times a year, we print a magazine 
worth putting your phone down for. Big 
Think's premium print magazine is built 
with custom artwork and expert insight 
from the world's biggest thinkers. No AI 
slop, no rage bait, just big ideas for 
curious people. Support the media 
you want to see in the world. Go to 
bigthink.com/membership to join.