 On Simon Willison's excellent blog yesterday,
 he pointed out this tweet talking about "near
 manic episodes triggered by watching software
 shift from scarce to abundant" and "cognitive
 overload from living in an inflection point."
 That tweet seems to be resonating with a lot of
 the software people at the moment.
 As for me, I'm feeling a very strong sense of
 deja vu right now.
 It's eerie.
 I felt like I've lived through this before, and
 maybe I can help give you some perspective.
 The last time things felt like this to me was
 26 years ago, now-ish.
 I was working at my first startup, NetSpend.com,
 but that's a story for another day.
 We were almost a month past the Y2K changeover,
 which had turned out to be a non-event because
 a lot of people had done a lot of work to
 prepare for it, but that's yet another story
 for another, another day.
 In early January of that year, an essay
 entitled "bubble.com" had been written by an
 analyst
 and leaked almost immediately, and was doing
 the rounds inside the startup community.
 It detailed the case for why the current tech
 company valuations were incredibly overvalued,
 and a correction was inevitable.
 Things were starting to feel tenuous, and I was
 getting quite worried.
 A couple of months later, not that I knew it
 yet, in March, the NASDAQ would hit its
 peak, and then it would start falling.
 It would lose three-quarters of its value in
 the following year and a half, and it
 wouldn't see those highs again for 15 years.
 And between the warning and the crash was the
 big football game of 2000.
 I'll be referring to it as the "superb owl" to
 avoid copyright trolls.
 I couldn't even tell you who was playing, but I
 still remember the ads.
 There were so many dot-com commercials during
 that game, they had their own Wikipedia page.
 I remember how jarring it felt to see companies
 that were so overvalued and losing money like
 crazy spent so much money advertising.
 It seemed like deliberately poking the bear, or
 at least tempting fate, especially since
 one of the ads was the E-Trade monkey dancing
 in a garage for 20 seconds, followed by a
 screen with the words, "Well, we just wasted $2
 million what are you doing with your money?"
 Any of this sounding familiar?
 The very next "superb owl" in 2001, there was
 an E-Trade ad called "Ghost Town", showing
 the same monkey riding a horse through a
 deserted town, filled with thinly disguised
 logos of
 failed dot-coms, including a discarded pets.com-
 like sock puppet.
 The juxtaposition between the reality and the
 marketing hype of AI feels just as discordant
 and uncomfortable for me as I remember from
 that January 2000.
 We know that LLMs have plateaued, and that even
 some industry insider experts are admitting
 it's time to go back into a research phase,
 that the valuations and revenue forecasts
 are implausible, but despite that, a social
 network made exclusively for AI agents to
 talk to each other is going viral.
 I paused work on a video about that to make this
 one. And, although as I'm writing this
 I don't know exactly how many AI commercials
 are going to be in the game this weekend,
 I do already know there will be a lot more than
 it seems like there ought to be.
 Tens of billions of dollars is being spent to
 advertise these companies that are losing
 billions of dollars a year, with valuations
 already over-inflated to the point where
 financial collapse seems inevitable.
 Just like with the dot-coms in 2000, this seems
 like a last desperate attempt by the
 AI companies to stave off disaster.
 Continuing a proud tradition of soon-to-be
 unemployed marketing departments from FTX
 during the
 so-called Crypto Bowl in 2022, and stretching all
 the way back to Atari's vain attempt
 to pivot from video games to home computers in
 1984, right after the Christmas video game
 crash of 1983.
 It's often humorous in retrospect, but it's not
 fun in the moment.
 It was a scary feeling in January 2000, and it's
 a scary feeling now.
 But we got through that, and we can get through
 this, and the two situations are even more
 similar than you probably realize.
 Compounded with the tech crash after the dot-com
 bubble, there was also a big wave of offshoring
 of software and IT positions that also
 depressed the tech job market.
 It was a double whammy.
 Developer jobs were being closed because the
 cash bank for them was drying up, and many
 of the developer jobs that were still being
 funded were being moved overseas.
 It turned out, though, that for various reasons,
 including the then-immaturity of many of the
 foreign firms, poor communication, and high
 levels of turnover amongst the big overseas
 providers, the code that US companies were
 getting from offshore vendors was not up to
 the quality that was needed.
 It was bad for internet software quality in
 general, but it was good for developers because
 it forced companies to hire developers in the
 US to clean up all the substandard code
 that offshore and could create.
 Some of us made a lot of money on some of those
 cleanup projects.
 And that is a lot like the impact that AI is
 having on code right now.
 Lots of bugs, lots of bad code, lots of
 security vulnerabilities are getting pushed out
 very
 fast.
 Absent an imminent, miraculous breakthrough in
 AI tech, there's going to be a ton of
 demand for developers to clean that code up.
 In many ways, AI coding agents can be thought
 of as just another iteration of offloading
 development tasks to cheaper resources of lower
 experience and quality.
 And there's another similarity.
 Back in the late 1990s, we didn't have Stack
 Overflow.
 We didn't have GitHub, we didn't have package
 managers like `npm` or `pip`, we didn't have
 a huge variety of open-source modules we could
 pull into our projects.
 Hell, we barely had Google.
 It was still smaller than Yahoo at the time.
 Those advances made software development go
 faster, and those of us who predated them
 had to learn how to keep up with newer
 developers who started off using the new tools.
 There was a lot of fear that the new resources
 would make developers so much more productive
 that the number of developer jobs would drop
 forever.
 In fact, the opposite occurred.
 Those advances meant it became economically
 feasible to use software to address a bunch
 of problems that had been out of our reach
 before.
 There's every reason to believe that large
 language models will have the same effect.
 People have been saying for years that
 developer jobs are going to go away, never to
 return.
 But these days, I'm putting together side
 projects on a regular basis with Claude Code
 that I never would have bothered to even
 attempt before, because the amount of time it
 would
 have taken to do it the old way wouldn't have
 been worth it.
 There's a whole new world of projects ahead of
 us that would never have been possible
 before.
 Unfortunately, we can't move forward as long as
 we're stuck in this holding pattern.
 The valuations are just not sustainable and
 there just isn't that much money to go around.
 I'll put some link to Ed Zitron's financial
 analysis below as well as a link to the bubble.com
 paper from 2000 and the follow-up that that
 same author wrote last year. Those papers
 are also worth reading.
 The coming crash is scary, but the sooner it
 happens, the sooner we can get through all
 of this.
 And maybe, like in 2000, the big expensive AI
 commercials this weekend will be the harbinger
 of the end of the hype.
 The bubble has to collapse and the tech world
 has to face reality and come to their senses.
 Hopefully, it will happen sooner rather than
 later because the more inflated it gets, the
 worse it's going to be when it pops.
 But if you're feeling unsettled, unsafe, or
 insecure by all this, understand it's not
 just you and know that we've been here before
 and that we came out better and stronger on
 the other side.
 There's every reason to believe that more
 opportunities and more interesting projects
 are waiting for us once the current irrational
 exuberance dissipates.
 Hang in there.
 We can do this.
 Try and enjoy the ads, some of them are
 hilarious.
 and thanks so much for watching.
 Let's be careful out there.