Iran, you see the result, and it's it's been amazing. We've knocked out 42 navy ships, some of them very large, in three days.美国每次动武都会带来认知上的困惑和混淆，尤其是中文世界。我们今天不去追溯一千年以前犹太人和穆斯林的冲突，也不去设想五百年以后伊朗的什叶派如何就哈梅内伊之死去报复美国的福音派。我们简化一些试试看啊，能不能够拨开战争迷雾，将当下的伊朗局势看得清楚一些。美国以色列对伊朗开战已经一个多星期，现在的状况是特朗普发出了最后通牒，要求伊朗无条件投降，否则呢，绝不会达成任何协议。One week into the war, the Trump administration is appearing to rule out negotiations, calling for Iran's quote unconditional surrender.无条件投降的说法呢，应该是在刻意呼应一九四五年波茨坦会议上美国、英国和中国对日本军国主义提出的要求。当时的宣言呼吁东京立即宣布日本所有的武装力量无条件投降，并且需要为投降过程提供公正而且妥善的保证。特朗普提出的无条件投降啊，其实就是两种结果：一个是美国全力投入到打击当中，直到伊朗投降；另外一个就是美国全力投入到打击之前伊朗投降。不管哪一种结果，伊朗之后啊，选出一位或者好几位伟大的，当然需要美国可以接受的领导人来正式取代哈梅内伊。按照特朗普的说法呢，随后美国和盟友将通过不懈的努力来加强伊朗经济，伊朗呢就会迎来光明的未来。Make Iran great again，让伊朗再次伟大。U.S. Central Command released new images showing some of the targeted blasts. President Trump from the White House says the U.S. is still on track for a four to six-week military campaign. Their army is gone. They're just about look. Their navy is gone. Their communications are gone. Their leaders are gone.以色列军队呢，确实是美军目前在世界上最好的帮手。他们可以完美的跟美军协同作战，出色的分担任务，总能够交出最好的答卷。现在以色列军方的行动已经从突袭阶段转到了下一个阶段，同时呢，也开始打击在黎巴嫩的真主党基础设施。以色列呢，也出动了五十架战斗机，刚刚啊摧毁了哈梅内伊生前藏身用的军事地堡，空袭了三十五个与伊朗安全部队相关的地点。从美国军方的角度看啊，应该说进展非常出色。我不太怀疑美国官员说的进度超前，好于预期这种评估。美国正在打的这场仗呢，战略和战术的更多细节需要时间才会慢慢披露，我们才能看到全貌。现在只从外部观察看，我猜呢，美军打出的是一场AI时代初期的模范战役。中文报道里与这个方向不吻合的，大家可能需要打上一个问号存疑。从战场表现看，美军的实际战力跟在乌克兰的俄罗斯军队相比呢，当然已经存在比较大的代际差异。我说不好啊，具体差了几代。美军目前为止付出了六人阵亡的代价，伤亡是美国民众最担心的事情，也是特朗普需要面对的最大的直接压力。希望损失能够控制在最低程度。美国民众当然是不希望看到阿灵顿国家公墓持续增添新的坟头。The six men and women whose remains are being brought back to the United States today.其实呢，伊朗的表现也不错，伊朗的抵抗处于比较有序的状态，我觉得他们得分不低。弹道导弹和无人机仍然造成了一定的破坏。他们的军事战略就是以消耗为基础，迫使美国和以色列消耗用来拦截的导弹。击落一枚导弹需要好几倍的拦截弹（interceptor），防御经济学完全不对称。用来拦截的导弹呢，跟猎犬追兔子一样，技术指标啊，远远高于普通的攻击性导弹，成本呢，当然也要高很多。美军的萨德系统全称是Terminal High Altitude Area Defense，末段高空区域防御系统。这个系统起作用呢，是在敌方的导弹飞行的末端重新进入大气层，准备向下俯冲的阶段，离地面的距离是四十到一百五十公里。萨德拦截弹呢，它没有安装战斗部，摧毁对方导弹的方式就是直接硬撞上去。美军一般发射两枚拦截弹对付伊朗的弹道导弹，成本大概是三千万美元对一百万美元，三十倍啊。这就是用爱马仕的雨伞呢去挡住精神失常的人扔过来的砖头。二零二五年六月，以色列发动的十二天战争，美军轰炸伊朗核设施期间，美军啊就在这十二天内消耗掉了萨德拦截弹全球库存的百分之二十五，主要是拦截伊朗的弹道导弹，保护以色列嘛。按照之前的补充速度呢，这百分之二十五的库存需要五年的时间才能够恢复储备。美国现在的库存量可能仍然低到美军啊可能都有些不好意思说的程度。虽然之后呢，生产线进入到全面的运作当中，不过国防部长海格塞斯刚刚是专门针对这个问题听了背景解释。美国设计的是分层防御体系，萨德用于高空拦截，中低空呢靠爱国者导弹。从乌克兰战争中看，美国已经意识到在任何一场持久战当中都需要更多的爱国者。洛克希德马丁公司原本的计划呀是到二零三零年将爱国者拦截弹的年产量由六百五十枚提高到两千枚，萨德的产量呢由九十六枚左右提高到四百枚。现在看起来，美国将有更强的紧迫感，投入更多资金来扩大生产线。这是特朗普发动袭击以后帮助美国迅速取得的一个共识。过去几年的争论基本上就消解掉了。共识就是美国确实需要加强国防工业，扩大武器储备，目前的水平呢，不足以应付挑战。This is the U.S. made Patriot air defense system.以色列还有箭式的拦截弹Arrow，但是他们的库存也不够。美国以色列目前需要保护的最大机密就是两军目前到底拥有多少拦截弹，生产速度有多快。伊朗方面应该是知道，与军事实力处于绝对优势的美国以色列展开长期斗争的唯一方式就是要能够撑得更久。我看到有最新的资料说，以色列生产Arrow箭式拦截弹的速度呢是每个月三十到六十枚，这个数量很容易消耗掉的。一个月的产量也就能够拦截十五到三十次。中国、俄罗斯和朝鲜啊，应该也都是意识到了这一点，所以未来他们对付美国的时候呢，都知道可以设法耗尽美国的拦截弹。伊朗战前拥有的能够打到以色列的导弹数量大概是两千五百枚，比美国的拦截弹数量可能还要多一些。而且呢，这些导弹往往都在难以触及的地下，所以美国以色列打击伊朗的最关键任务是什么呢？就是全力摧毁伊朗的导弹发射平台，主要是轮式和履带式的发射车，在地面上就大量摧毁伊朗的弹道导弹和发射能力，而不是等到导弹飞到离美军基地还有三十秒、一分钟的时候再拦截。Patriot missiles consist of multiple components. Three of its main parts sit on top of truck platforms. The radar tracks missiles and other targets. It can detect aircraft up to 62 miles away and ballistic missiles more than 100 miles away.伊朗人呢，采取打了就躲起来的战术。其实追踪移动发射平台呢，也没那么容易。以色列情报说，伊朗在开战以前大约有四百套弹道导弹发射平台，其中三百套，百分之七十五已经被摧毁了。我们确实已经看到，伊朗能够发射的导弹数量在急剧减少。跟二月二十八号开战之初相比呢，伊朗每天发射的导弹数量很快降低了百分之七十，目前呢，应该降低了百分之九十五以上，每天可能只有个位数了。美国和以色列如果彻底摧毁了伊朗的导弹发射平台和操作团队，伊朗呢就再也放不出烟花炮仗，战争应该也就基本结束了。从这个意义上说，我们要看到啊，特朗普现在发动战争是及时的。如果伊朗拥有的导弹发射平台不是四百套，而是一千套，导弹数量不是两千五百枚，而是五千枚、一万枚，美国和以色列需要付出的代价只会更高。假如伊朗拥有核武器，那这对以色列来说肯定就是灭国之灾。伊朗的毛拉和阿亚图拉们担心造成大量的生命财产损失。使用核武器之前，表现出哈姆雷特式的深度忧郁和反复的犹豫，这种状况应该不会出现。二零二四年十月，以色列军队呢就摧毁了伊朗生产固体燃料的中程弹道导弹的能力。首先啊，是对制造导弹燃料来说至关重要的大型行星式搅拌机（planetary mixer）遭到摧毁。这个类型的导弹呢比较先进一些，对以色列威胁更大。当时以色列的判断是生产线啊至少要停一年，但事实上要短很多啊，因为强大的中国制造介入了，伊朗获得了迅速重建生产能力需要的设备。随后呢，伊朗不仅恢复了生产，实际上啊还扩大了生产，固体燃料导弹储备的规模呢，估算是翻了一倍到两倍。以色列情报部门无法确定精确的数字，但是他们知道核武器之外，弹道导弹对以色列的生存已经构成了严重的威胁。伊朗发展弹道导弹呢，也就相当于给自己的核武器项目建造了一道盾牌。美军在中东的基地当然也都在这些导弹的射程之内，因此必须消灭，至少削弱。不仅如此啊，伊朗现在都还能够控制霍尔木兹海峡。如果导弹库存持续增加，伊朗它实际上有能力挟持沙特的油田和整个波斯湾地区的航运。Tonight, the U.S. and Israel pummeling Iranian missile bases deep underground. ABC News verifying that 13 of the underground facilities have been damaged or destroyed. The Israeli army chief of staff claiming 60 percent of the launchers have now been taken out.从伊朗的还击看呢，沙特、阿拉伯、卡塔尔、阿联酋、巴林这几个海湾国家都遭到战火波及，所以伊朗的意图很清楚，就是要将冲突扩大到整个中东地区。目前除了土耳其以外，伊朗向其他所有的邻国都发射了导弹和无人机，连阿塞拜疆也分配到了一枚导弹，遭到了无人机袭击。伊朗呢也向土耳其进来的美军基地发射了一枚导弹，但是遭到了拦截。伊朗豁出去的姿态很明确，他们希望在最大范围内迅速造成痛苦，给美国施加停火压力。美国方面之前的分析是说，伊朗呢肯定会打阿联酋，因为距离最近啊，比较方便打了就跑。但是不应该有卡塔尔和阿曼这两个国家跟伊朗传统上呢是比较友好的，更不会有土耳其、阿塞拜疆击落这些国家，并不符合伊朗的利益。After it intercepted a ballistic missile launched from Iran, Turkey said NATO air defenses destroyed the missile when it headed into Turkish airspace.伊朗的人口构成当中，波斯人占到百分之六十，人数第二的就是庞大的阿塞拜疆族，占比高达百分之十六。现任总统佩泽斯强就是阿塞拜疆人，他们高度集中在伊朗和阿塞拜疆这两个国家的边境区域。假如伊朗局势不稳啊，伊朗境内的阿塞拜疆族人士呢，一定会有寻求自治的可能性。这个议题在伊朗具有高度的敏感性，所以一般来说，德黑兰啊，他不会去触碰阿塞拜疆，而土耳其呢一直在游说华盛顿不要发动战争，现在呢是游说尽快结束战争，所以不惹土耳其也应该更符合伊朗的利益。但是伊朗啊依然铤而走险，这种不太合常理的决策背后是什么原因呢？那我当然不知道伊朗决策者脑子里是怎么孕育出各种念头的。我猜尽快消耗干净美国和以色列的拦截弹，并且制造美军内部协调上的问题，可能是重要的动机之一。从美军内部架构看呢，直接打击伊朗啊，由美军中央司令部来组织完成的，而土耳其和阿塞拜疆都属于美军的欧洲司令部。欧洲司令部应付乌克兰战争啊，已经在满负荷运作，额外承担任务恐怕应接不暇。那为了防卫土耳其和阿塞拜疆呢，美军内部在如何分配萨德和爱国者拦截弹上会遇到利益冲突。除此之外啊，我想不到伊朗攻击土耳其和阿塞拜疆还能够有什么好处。阿塞拜疆总统呢已经说了，将以铁拳回应啊，你们伊朗不会为炮击我们的领土感到高兴。阿塞拜疆最近刚从俄罗斯支持下的亚美尼亚人手中收复了卡拉巴赫，枪炮啊可能还有余温在呢，所以他们总统的威胁不一定是说说而已。军队事实上已经进入到一级动员状态。考虑到阿塞拜疆人在伊朗至关重要，德黑兰政府啊有理由感到非常担心。美军派地面部队很难，但是呢，没准阿塞拜疆一下就冲进去了。Azerbaijan officials are saying two drones hit an airport and outside a school. The country closed the airspace near Iran, and the defense minister is promising retaliation now against Iran.伊朗的波斯人加上阿塞拜疆人占到了人口的百分之八十左右。此外呢，还有一个规模可观的库尔德人，大约占人口比例的百分之十，这也是近千万人口了。库尔德人在伊拉克也有分布。伊拉克北部呢有一个库尔德自治区，叙利亚和土耳其也有不少库尔德人。长期以来，中东和近东的库尔德人渴望有自己的国家，或者呢，退而求其次，像伊拉克的库尔德人那样享有比较多的自治权。这两天啊，有些不太可靠的报道说，中央情报局与伊朗的库尔德人有交流，探讨库尔德人揭竿而起，美国提供空中支援的可能性。首先呢，我没有看到可信度比较高的报道。其次啊，我认为美国不应该采取这种成功率很低、容易造成持续武装冲突的做法。伊朗的库尔德聚居地离德黑兰这样的主要城市很远啊，占人口百分之十的库尔德人领导伊朗革命不可能，波斯人不会跟随的，阿塞拜疆人呢可能也不会跟随。就跟在中共领导的武装力量当中，回民啊可以成为有战斗力的回民支队，由马本斋来领导就好了。但是呢，不可能成为一五师、一二零师或者是一二九师一样的主力部队。When you hear the Iranian government, it's easy to only really think about the now late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and like it's kind of understandable. He was the head of the judiciary, the commander in chief of the armed forces. He had final decision-making power over the entire government. and伊朗失去还击能力呢，可能只是一个时间问题。接下来的一个重大挑战是如何将军事成就转化为持久的政治目标。到目前为止，德黑兰政府运转还比较正常，仍然维持着他们显示出的韧性呢，我还是觉得比较意外。从组织架构上看啊，这种韧性可能部分来自于多年来啊，伊朗为了抵御危机而建的多层系统。来自美国和以色列的斩首行动随时都可能发生的，所以伊朗主要岗位上都有好几个备胎，他们可以立即接替可能被杀的关键人物。也就是说呢，伊朗它是以去中心化的方式确保啊，总有人在中心。据说哈梅内伊为自己就设计了四层接替人选，一个人倒下以后呢，立即就会有另外一个人站起来，不会出现权力真空。这次第一波攻击当中，高达四十位伊朗高层领导上升，政府运作啊也没有出现大的问题。伊朗政权虽然高度不透明，但是呢，我们从外部观察来看，伊朗的干部梯队建设它确实非常完备，确实做到了前赴后继。以色列媒体上有报道说，负责发射导弹的革命卫队有一些人正在叛逃，但是呢，没有办法独立核实这些报道啊。也许呢是以色列心理战的一部分。我看到的报道都是说，伊斯兰革命卫队八十几名兵当中并没有出现裂痕。But even though costly, late today, the Pentagon making the case that it's working, and there has been a major drop in retaliatory strikes by Iran. Ballistic missile attacks have decreased by 90 percent since day one. Drone attacks have decreased by 83 percent.从美国和以色列的打击方向来说呢，瓦解导弹发射部队可能是最重要的目标。伊朗领导人啊不一定需要继续定点清除了，总需要留下一些人未来呢去角逐领导岗位。伊朗精英层当中确实存在两派，战争开始以前就是这样，双方对于如何处理与美国和以色列的关系，是不是继续支持黎巴嫩真主党、加沙的哈马斯和也门的胡塞武装这些代理人，还有面对国内抗议的应对方式，意见啊大致都在对立面。伊朗内部呢一直就有一派主张与美国和以色列和谈，争取减少制裁。总统佩泽斯强应该就在这个类别，但是他已经被哈梅内伊排除在权力核心层之外，希望他减少参加高层集体会议啊，尽量自己待着，这样呢就有很大的机会留存到战争结束。我相信美国和以色列不会考虑单独清除他。We've heard Ayatollah Khamenei, his son is leading is a leading choice rather to be the successor. What do we know about his son? A successorship is not supposed to be hereditary, so that is one issue. But we do know that he worked in his father's office, and he has very close ties to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps.目前哈梅内伊继承人的人选啊，可能倾向于他的孙子，这个势头呢不太容易改变。因为哈梅内伊的主要副手拉里贾尼也扮演着非常重要的角色。拉里贾尼在伊朗啊被看作邓小平风格的务实派，但是问题在于邓小平复出以后牢牢掌握着军权，但是拉里贾尼只管政治啊，顶多只有半个邓小平。军事是由前革命卫队指挥官卡利巴夫负责，他是飞行员出身，跟哈梅内伊的儿子关系很近。目前统治伊朗的呢是伊斯兰革命卫队的强硬派啊，他们掌握的经济大约百分之五十的GDP掌握在革命卫队拥有的企业当中，将他们赶出政治舞台啊非常困难。最近这些年，拉里贾尼和卡利巴夫两个人是处于竞争关系，争夺的当然是领导国家的最高权力。战争爆发以后呢，目前他们是以合作为主，竞争啊放到了第二位。拉里贾尼还有一个跟邓小平不同的地方，他据说是伊朗一月镇压行动的策划者之一。 But for American taxpayers, it's coming with a steep price tag. One estimate by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a bipartisan think tank, puts the cost at $3.7 billion for the first 100 hours alone. That's more than $891 million per day. From the Democratic side, their criticism is not as strong. It's more about the fact that the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear about the need for a transition. And the president has been very clear