If you have read many history popular science books on the market
Like Harari's *A Big History of Humankind*
Jared Diamond's *Guns, Germs, and Steel*
You'll find that these books are all repeating the same theory of the origin of civilization.
Human ancestors once lived in a primitive state of equality.
Later, at some point, a mistake occurred, leading to the agricultural revolution.
After the emergence of cities and states
The ruling elite began to dominate humanity.
Until the European Enlightenment
Humanity has only just begun to pursue freedom and equality again.
These are the kinds of stories we read in our history textbooks.
This makes people think that we have always lived in a state of inequality.
Therefore, the inequality created by contemporary capitalism
It's just a common occurrence in human history.
Some people would even say
A large-scale war is needed
Society will be reshuffled.
but
Over the past two or three decades
More and more archaeological and anthropological evidence is emerging.
Scholars began to discover
The entire story we know is wrong.
And it's ridiculously wrong.
Today I'm going to introduce the book "Everything Revealed".
The authors are anthropologist David Graeber and archaeologist David Wengrow.
In this episode, we'll dismantle the myths surrounding the origins of civilization step by step.
Restoring the true history of humankind
To dismantle the theory of the origin of civilization
First, we need to know how this story came about.
As early as the 18th century
French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau wrote a paper on this topic.
Exploring the origins of human inequality
He believed that humans initially lived in hunter-gatherer communities.
Living an equal and happy life
Until the agricultural revolution
Civilization and the domination of the state
That's what makes people lose freedom and equality.
If you want to better understand Rousseau's theories
You can click to watch my previous video introducing Rousseau's philosophy.
Rousseau's theory is quite unique.
Because he presupposes that inequality has an origin.
As if before this
Everyone is equal.
But this is actually quite strange.
Because France was still in the feudal era at that time.
Life is extremely unequal.
No one would think there's anything wrong with this.
Because since the Middle Ages
Europeans believe
Everyone is born with a preordained rank and profession by God.
Because everyone is ordained by God.
So it is precisely very equal.
But starting in the 18th century
Europeans gradually realized
The religion's claim of equality is a sham.
Why did people suddenly awaken at this time?
Because in the 18th century
Much information from the American colonies began to flow back to Europe.
These documents record many debates between missionaries and Native Americans.
At that time, many Native Americans did not want to convert to Christianity.
Because in their eyes
European society was actually quite inferior.
It is rife with wealth inequality and lack of freedom
For example, when the French missionary Gabriel Sagard went to the Wendat tribe to preach...
The Wenda people were found to be very generous and helpful.
There were no beggars in the whole village.
On the contrary, the wealthy class in France only think about making money.
Treating the people like leeks to be harvested
This resulted in Paris being filled with homeless people.
The indigenous people criticized the French for lacking a spirit of philanthropy.
These stories were later written into a book.
The Great Journey Through Huron
It caused a stir in Europe after its publication.
Many Enlightenment philosophers
Even Locke has quoted this book.
To prove that Native American societies were more egalitarian than those in Europe.
Voltaire even designed a Native American protagonist in his novel L'Ingénu.
To criticize how unequal European society is
However, at that time, the Native Americans most often criticized...
It's not that Europeans are unequal.
Rather, they are hostile to freedom.
We now generally consider Europe to be the source of liberal democracy.
But actually in the 17th century
European missionaries viewed freedom as a kind of wildness.
For example, Native Americans highly value autonomy.
Not yielding to the will of others
They believe that a power relationship between superiors and subordinates is an infringement on freedom.
Even the tribal chiefs often disobeyed.
This made them seem difficult to deal with when European colonists arrived.
Father Jérôme Lallemant of the Jesuit order said:
"No people on earth are freer than the Wendaans, and less willing to submit to any power." - The Jesuit Relations, 1644
This freedom also includes sexual autonomy.
That is, one can freely choose to date and marry.
This was seen as barbaric and evil by European church figures at the time.
How can women have the autonomy to choose their romantic partners?
Many middle-class women in Europe at that time read these books.
It is very likely that this also influenced the views on love held by European women at that time.
Among all Native Americans
What impressed Europeans most was the Iroquois people's spirit of rational debate.
When European colonists invaded
Iroquois diplomat Kondiaronk actually came out to debate with Europeans.
Which system is superior, Native American society or European society?
Europeans immediately cited the Bible during the debate.
Kondiaronk then questioned:
If miracles truly exist...
Why not show it to us?
This way, people all over the world will believe what Christians say.
On the contrary, it can make your missionary work more successful.
Isn't this exactly what you wanted?
This immediately slapped the European missionaries in the face.
Then the Europeans said
They have a legal system to punish crime.
This can bring order to society.
Therefore, it is superior to indigenous societies.
Kondiaronk replied
Wow, what kind of creatures are you Europeans?
It's actually necessary to have a legal mandate.
People will then be more willing to do good and refrain from committing crimes.
Indigenous societies do not need police or national laws.
People can then spontaneously maintain social order.
Unable to win the argument, Europeans resorted to the theory of civilization.
To say that European civilization is richer
Kondiaronk, however, said:
Yes, you guys are definitely richer.
But it was precisely for the money
Europeans have committed all sorts of despicable acts in the world.
Your money is the root of all evil.
People driven by self-interest
It's impossible for someone to be rational.
This is why the Iroquois people refuse to allow money to circulate in their society.
In the end, the Europeans realized they couldn't win no matter how they tried to reason with them.
Then change your mind and say
Otherwise, why don't you come and live in Europe and see for yourself?
You will then know that there are many benefits.
Kondiaronk replied:
How could you find it so enjoyable to see starving poor people on the streets of Paris every day?
The result of this debate
Kondiaronk told Europeans
If European civilization adopted the systems of Native Americans...
Europeans are actually happier.
But if Native Americans adopted European systems
Indigenous people will live even more miserable lives.
This debate was included in the book by author Lahontan.
This book became a bestseller throughout Europe in the 18th century.
It inspired many plays of the time.
At the Paris theater at that time
You'll see many films that depict Native Americans being brought to France.
Criticism of the ills of European civilization
Because at that time, many Native American intellectuals
Will he really be sent to France to do diplomacy with the royal family?
Many indigenous people who went to Europe said in unison:
Europeans are really barbaric.
Lack of understanding of the spirit of mutual help and sharing
The rich are respected more than the poor.
It's simply unbelievable
These criticisms from indigenous people
This forced Europeans to rethink their society.
This is the true origin of the European Enlightenment.
The Enlightenment was not a sudden emergence in Europe of a group of philosophers who enlightened the masses.
On the contrary
The philosophers were enlightened after reading the knowledge of the indigenous people.
Montesquieu wrote in his book
The story of the Persians coming to France
Diderot wrote about the Tahitians coming to France.
Rousseau also started from the perspective of an egalitarian society of the indigenous people.
To criticize the origins of inequality
His many arguments
In fact, it's similar to the arguments used by indigenous peoples at the time to criticize European society.
For example, humans are born with compassion.
It is only after being corrupted by civilization that one becomes greedy and competitive.
This is actually Kondiaronk's argument against Europeans.
So we always thought
Western civilization was inspired by Enlightenment philosophy, which led to the French Revolution.
It became the source of freedom and democracy.
But the truth is quite the opposite.
It was during the European colonization process
They unexpectedly encountered a system that was more free and egalitarian than theirs.
These encounters were recorded by many missionaries.
It was transmitted back to Europe
We could even say
Kondiaronk was the first Enlightenment philosopher.
He inspired an entire generation of European philosophers.
To reflect on the meaning of democracy, freedom, and equality
After dismantling the myth of the Enlightenment
Now the author will further dissect...
Myths about the origin of inequality
That is, it is believed that before the emergence of civilization...
Everyone is equal.
Inequality only emerged after civilization was established.
The most classic study on this claim comes from anthropologist Christopher Boehm.
He studied the similarities and differences between humans and other primates.
They all instinctively exhibit dominant behavior.
Causes social inequality
But the difference between humans and primates lies in...
People in hunter-gatherer societies would be consciously aware of this.
And invent various strategies
To resist the dominator that appears in the group
In other words, the weak will unite.
Resisting the bullying of the strong
Because people know
If no action is taken
The consequences will be unimaginable.
This strategy of counter-dominance allowed our ancestors to live in an egalitarian society for a long time.
Until the emergence of agricultural civilization
This state of equality was then broken.
But now the author is going to challenge this argument.
In fact, before the emergence of agricultural civilization
Human beings have a rich and diverse political culture
It's not as simple as always living in an equal society.
Our ancestors were actually more creative than we imagine.
They would experiment with various different social systems.
Instead of being limited to a single social model
For example, the major archaeological discovery of the 1990s: Stonehenge.
It is estimated to have existed at least as early as 9000 BC.
There was no sign of agriculture at this time.
It should belong to a hunter-gatherer society.
Amazing
They were able to build a massive Stonehenge.
This indicates that they have a very sophisticated social division of labor and organization.
However, archaeologists have found no evidence of class distinctions.
There is no organization similar to that of the country.
Therefore, many scholars believe
The existence of Göbekli Tepe challenges our past understanding.
Many people on the internet even think
This must have been built by aliens.
Otherwise, how could hunter-gatherers have developed such complex technology?
The author provides us with a very interesting explanation.
It is very likely
These hunter-gatherers gather together during specific seasons.
Adopt different political life and professional division of labor
After the season ends
They went back to their original hunter-gatherer life.
This seasonal social experiment
Also appears at Stonehenge in England
Because there were no settled people near Stonehenge.
Therefore, archaeologists speculate
It is very likely that various groups from the British Isles
Every year during a specific season, people come here to build Stonehenge.
But to build such a large-scale project
There must be some kind of cooperation.
Therefore, they may have briefly granted power to someone during the construction period.
Let him give orders like a king.
However, after the construction was completed
The king's power ended.
The power structure has returned to its original egalitarian state.
Everyone went back to their gathering life.
But these are all just speculations by archaeologists.
Is there any existing evidence?
Can we prove that this kind of seasonal social experiment really exists?
some
early 20th century
French anthropologist Marcel Mauss studied the social system of the Inuit.
They were discovered in the summer
Will obey the instructions of a male elder.
There is a clear top-down class system
But in winter
The entire society will suddenly transform into an equal and altruistic political community.
Everyone will share the wealth
They might even practice partner swapping.
Anthropologists originally believed
This is simply because their society is constrained by the climate.
But Mauss believes
If you look at all the societies in cold regions
They were all in the same cold winter.
However, they adopt different systems.
Therefore, they are not constrained by the climate.
Rather, the Inuit believe that people should help each other during the harsh winter.
This is a kind of autonomous collective social experiment.
It's not just Eskimos who are like this.
American anthropologist Robert Lowie also discovered...
The Lakota tribe, a Native American group in North America
When hunting bison in the summer
Success requires rapid team action.
Therefore, people would authorize a police force to give orders.
They wield power akin to that of a state apparatus.
But once the hunting season ends...
This police force will be immediately abolished.
Society will revert to anarchy without a central authority.
Because people know
If we don't quickly reclaim the soldiers' power...
These people are likely to turn around and rule the entire society.
Create a national system
This is not only true in indigenous societies.
Even in European society, there are various seasonal social experiments.
For example, medieval carnivalesque.
It is a temporary reversal of social inequality.
On this day
The entire class order suddenly reversed
Women can control men
A servant can ask his master to work.
The author believes
This is very likely the original intention behind humankind's invention of festivals.
Our ancestors invented festivals
It is to allow people to reverse power relations at some point in time.
This is to stimulate people's political imagination.
Knowing that the current situation is not so unchallenging
Festivals are an escape for people from daily life.
Therefore, regardless of whether it is from archaeology, anthropology, or even folk festivals...
We have seen various pieces of evidence
From ancient times to the present
Humanity has always been trying different systems
So ask what the origin of inequality is.
The question itself was wrong.
Our human ancestors were more creative than we imagine.
They discovered inequalities in a particular season
It will then transition to an equal system.
Therefore, inequality has no origin.
Instead, it appears and disappears intermittently.
The real problem
It's not about why inequality exists in human society.
Rather, it's about why human ancestors all had self-awareness.
Design different social experiments to maintain equality
But we today resign ourselves to inequality.
No longer conceiving of systems that transcend state power and capitalism
Instead, it will hypnotize itself to say
Although capitalism is very unequal
But this is the only feasible system.
This was in the view of our human ancestors and many indigenous peoples
It's all just self-deception due to a lack of political awareness.
Because the essence of human nature lies in
Humans are conscious political actors
The ability to reflect on the current situation and make choices
To create all sorts of systems
Therefore, the author needs to discuss this further.
What exactly is this power?
It has robbed humanity of its original imagination.
After breaking down the myths of the Enlightenment and the myths of inequality
Now the author is going to debunk the myth of scientific progress.
Mainstream history books will tell us
Human history is a process of continuous progress through science and technology.
Starting with hunting and gathering
The Neolithic Revolution occurred
Another agricultural revolution
The Last Industrial Revolution
Although primitive society was relatively egalitarian
But without technology, there is no freedom.
Industrial society due to technological progress
Therefore, humans are more free.
But it also created more inequality.
This argument actually implies a kind of fatalism.
It's as if you want freedom
We must live in a technological society
This means we must accept inequality.
But this is actually because
We have confused the meaning of freedom.
Anthropologist Eleanor Leacock discovered
In an egalitarian society of indigenous people
People maintain equality
It is precisely because they care about freedom
The definition of freedom here is "having the freedom to do what you want without having to obey the will of others".
When inequality arises
Some people control more wealth
Wealth can be transformed into the power to control others.
This would hinder the freedom of others.
Therefore, although contemporary capitalism claims that people have freedom
But in fact
Most laborers are controlled by the will of others.
Must work for capitalists
Most of the week is controlled by the company.
Compared to egalitarian indigenous societies
It's hard to call it freedom
But strangely
But we would feel
Modern people live more freely than people in hunter-gatherer societies.
Because we enjoy high technology
Therefore, we should think about it from the opposite perspective.
Where does the idea that "we are more free because of technology" actually come from?
The author believes
This is actually because 18th-century European society was criticized by indigenous peoples.
Economists of that time included Turgot and Adam Smith
In order to promote the superiority of capitalism
He began to advocate a new discourse
It's normal for workers in industrial civilization to sacrifice their freedom.
This is the only way to ensure economic growth.
In the long run
Technological progress will liberate all mankind
Working hours will become shorter and shorter in the future.
Humanity will achieve true freedom
In comparison
Look at those primitive people
Every day is a struggle for survival
There is no freedom at all.
This theory of technological progress that emerged at the end of the 18th century
It has been popular in Europe and America for nearly 200 years
Until the 1960s
This led anthropologist Marshal Sahlins to point out that the "technological progress theory" is actually backwards.
If we look back at the history of the past 200 years
Human working hours have actually increased rather than decreased.
Industrial development has not liberated humanity.
Make people more free
You still work 8 hours a day, huh?
Moreover, capitalism creates more goods, which in turn fuels greater materialism.
So you'll always feel like you don't earn enough.
I still feel poor
In comparison
People in hunter-gatherer societies are wealthier than people in our industrial civilization.
Because wealth is a relative concept.
You feel rich when you have more than you need.
People like hunter-gatherer society
Working only 2-4 hours a day is enough to meet your needs.
You can do whatever you want the rest of the time.
This will make them feel rich and free.
Therefore, Sahlins finally came to a surprising conclusion:
Hunter-gatherers actually lived in a primitive, affluent society.
In order to preserve their leisure time, they rejected the agricultural revolution.
Because once you enter an agricultural society
It will take more time to cultivate
Working hours are getting longer
The freedom they originally enjoyed has been reduced.
However, Sahlins's argument has a weakness:
You could argue that hunter-gatherers have more free time.
But their living standards and technological level are so low.
It's hard to convince the general public that this really represents greater freedom, isn't it?
So now the author is going to break this stereotype.
In recent years, an increasing number of new archaeological evidences have been discovered.
In fact, hunter-gatherer societies can also develop into highly civilized societies.
For example, the Poverty Point area in Louisiana, USA.
A city ruin dating back to 3500 BC has been discovered.
These relics utilize complex geometric principles.
City-states comparable in size to Sumerian civilization
It was very likely the first major city on the American continent.
Even more amazing is
The entire Mississippi River basin
Small settlements of the same type can be found in all of them.
It seemed as if hunter-gatherers from all over had gathered here to exchange information.
This allows them to develop complex mathematical and engineering knowledge.
Creating public buildings and urban areas
This area has now been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Similar discoveries have been made at the Sanouchi Maruyama site in Japan in recent years.
They were also hunter-gatherers without agriculture.
Yet it developed a highly advanced civilization.
These new discoveries greatly challenge the myth of scientific progress.
We all thought there had to be a state and capitalism.
Only then can urban civilization develop.
However, archaeological evidence shows
In fact, an equal hunter-gatherer society
It is also possible to develop complex urban civilizations.
After shattering the myth of scientific progress
Now the author intends to further dispel the myth of economic determinism.
A core issue in social sciences is
Why do human societies have such diverse lifestyles?
Marx believed
Different social lives arise from different modes of economic production.
For example
The development of handicrafts would produce a society dominated by feudal lords.
The development of the steam engine will lead to a society dominated by industrial capitalists.
This set of economic determinism
It has always been a mainstream in social sciences
Now the author is going to challenge this claim.
Human society is not determined by the mode of production.
Instead, it is decided through active refusal.
Defining oneself through a culture of rejecting others
To understand this
We can look at two groups of people that are clearly very similar.
Why did different cultures develop?
For example, the indigenous peoples of the west coast of North America
There are two completely different cultures
The Kwakiutl people north of the Klamath River
It is a class society ruled by nobles.
Very focused on money
Having hereditary slaves
Slaves comprised a quarter of the total population.
Many of the menial tasks were assigned to slaves.
Their chief was proud and arrogant.
He likes to donate large sums of money during festivals.
To show off that you are rich
But the Youluoke people south of the same river
Anthropologists, however, see the complete opposite of society.
No class system, no slavery
Moreover, people are generally modest.
These people knew about the existence of the northern slave society.
However, they refused to introduce the same system.
They believed that introducing slaves would
People will start to become lazy.
It will undermine the socially valued tradition of diligence.
in other words
They are through
The culture of rejecting one's neighbors
To define one's own culture
Anthropologist Gregory Bateson called this "schimogenisis" (the origin of the split).
It refers to two groups of people or two groups of societies.
Treat the other person as a mirror image of yourself
Define yourself by rejecting others
I hope I don't become like that person.
Like the Kwakiutl people of the northwest coast of California
Very concerned about saving face
He would deliberately avoid letting others see him chopping wood.
Because they believed that this was something only slaves did.
However, the Yurok people in the south were the opposite.
It was believed that all men must participate in the work of chopping wood.
This in itself is a form of moral development.
Training a man's self-control
In history
We can also see many examples of splits originating from the beginning.
Like Athens and Sparta in ancient Greece
It means that the two societies are interconnected yet also opposed to each other.
On one side is democracy
On one side are oligarchs
On one side is the city
On one side is the countryside
On the one hand, emphasizing luxury
On the one hand, emphasizing thrift
On one hand, they rely on the sea for a living.
One side relies on land for survival
Both the Athenians and Spartans maintained their differences with each other.
To define who you are
This theory of the origin of the split emphasizes...
Human society is not determined by economic production.
Rather, it is in comparison with the neighbors
To more consciously decide what kind of person one wants to become.
The establishment of culture stems from this creative division.
Defining oneself through a culture of rejecting others
Finally, the author will break the most stubborn myth in human history.
Agricultural Revolution
Many popular history books will say
10,000 BC
After humans domesticated grains and began the agricultural revolution
History has entered a new stage.
Humans transitioned from migrating to settled life
Inequality began to emerge in the private property sector.
It seems that after the advent of agriculture
The fate of human history was thus determined.
But in fact
Latest archaeological evidence reveals
The earliest wild grains were cultivated in northern Syria.
It can be traced back to 10,000 BC
However, humans completely domesticated grains.
It was completed around 7,000 BC.
This was separated by three thousand years.
The time period is too long
It's hard to call it a transitional period towards agriculture.
What exactly happened in the past three thousand years?
Very likely
People at that time didn't actually intend to transition into an agricultural society.
Instead, they approached it with a testing mentality.
Testing whether agriculture is a suitable economic model for humans
People at that time sometimes gathered and sometimes farmed.
Such diverse food sources can reduce the risk of food shortages.
One school of thought even believes
Domestication of grains was crucial for early humans.
It's actually a very unfavorable trap.
Because once there is artificial domestication and cultivation
More labor will be needed to process grains and maintain soil fertility.
Then came the emergence of agriculture.
It did not lead to inequality.
Because the earliest farmers
It will utilize a method called recessional agriculture.
When rivers flood seasonally
The overflowing water will complete the work of turning the soil.
After the flood receded
It will leave behind fertile alluvial soil.
People can then sow seeds on it.
This way, you don't have to put in too much effort.
Moreover, it can also prevent the privatization of land.
Because no one can predict which area might experience river flooding next year.
Which piece of land will be arid?
The areas where rivers overflow are random in nature.
This way, no landlord will want to seize a piece of land.
This farming method prevented the development of private property.
Until today
Rural areas in India, Pakistan, and New Mexico, USA
They still use this method of farming.
Therefore, the development of human history is very different from what Rousseau imagined.
Rousseau believed that after the advent of agriculture
Humans will encroach on land in order to seize more crops.
Turning land into private property
But the true history is
The emergence of agriculture did not lead to the privatization of land.
Because early farmers knew how to utilize ecological knowledge
Farming during the flood season
To avoid leading society toward inequality
In fact, it wasn't until modern times that...
Cooperative agricultural models were once widespread in Europe.
Like the Russian rural communes (Obshchina)
The Mark commune in Germany (Markgenossenschaft)
They continued to exist until the 19th century.
So we used to think
Various forms of inequality arose after the advent of agriculture.
But in fact, our ancestors were more intelligent and agile than we imagine.
They will consciously utilize ecological knowledge
To prevent land privatization
The last important discovery is
Historians previously believed
The population naturally increased after the emergence of agriculture.
A large population requires a bureaucratic organization for management.
After the emergence of administrative bureaucrats and the elite class
This will naturally lead to the emergence of large-scale cities and countries.
Finally, the rulers would turn around and levy taxes on the farmers' harvest.
Therefore, the locations where the domestication of plants and animals occurred coincided with the emergence of authoritarian states.
The Middle East domesticated wheat and sheep, leading to the rise of the Assyrian Empire.
China domesticated rice and pigs, leading to the emergence of the Great Chinese Empire.
Potatoes and llamas were domesticated in the Peruvian Andes, giving rise to the Inca Empire.
The domestication of maize and avocados in Mesoamerica led to the emergence of the Aztec Empire.
These regions happen to be where centralized states emerged.
However, the latest archaeological evidence has found...
Things are not that simple.
In fact, after the emergence of agriculture
The emergence of nations and ruling elites did not occur naturally.
Most of the 20 locations worldwide where domestication took place do not have centralized governments.
Why?
Because early farmers used a system of "agroforestry".
This means constantly switching between agriculture, animal husbandry, and hunting and gathering.
This diversified economic model
This prevents power from being concentrated.
Because when someone wants to control agriculture
Others can switch directly to hunting and gathering or animal husbandry.
This also preserves economic freedom
The author cited the example of Taiwan's indigenous people.
1600 BC
Austronesian cultural sphere spread out of Taiwan
Bring rice and millet to the entire Pacific region
However, rice and millet are not suitable for tropical regions.
So during migration
Austronesian indigenous peoples gradually replaced their native crops with root vegetables.
There are also orchards and livestock farms.
It can be said that the Austronesian peoples' great migration was a process of migration.
It is the process by which human ancestors continuously diversified their food sources.
This makes it less likely for power to be concentrated among the Austronesian indigenous peoples.
This concept of equality, developed from biodiversity,
It was called "the ecology of freedom" by American philosopher Murray Bookchin.
That is, human domination over nature.
It actually stems from the domination of one person over another.
If people do not develop unequal relationships of mutual domination...
The relationship between humans and the ecosystem will also change.
Another classic example is the Nambikwara tribe of the Amazon rainforest.
They plant orchards in the lakeside area during the rainy season.
They will leave the original orchard during the dry season.
Switch to nomadic mode and engage in hunting and gathering.
This process is repeated every year.
Constantly switching between harvesting and orchard modes
This has been the case for thousands of years.
It's as if they deliberately avoid a single economic model.
We all thought the Amazon rainforest was inhabited by a group of savages living in the jungle.
But over the past 20 years
The increasing logging has depleted the trees in the Amazon rainforest.
Archaeologists utilize the latest 3D exploration technology
Unexpectedly, a discovery was made.
There are tens of thousands of defensive mounds beneath the Amazon rainforest.
The era can be traced back to 7000 BC.
This reveals that the Amazon rainforest once housed a vast ancient civilization.
This research was published in a scientific journal in 2023.
It shocked the archaeological community.
These studies have overturned our previous understanding.
Perhaps people living in the Amazon rainforest today
They are not backward indigenous people at all
Rather, they are descendants of a highly advanced civilization from thousands of years ago.
They still maintain a lifestyle that coexists with the ecological environment.
Today's episode
We introduced the book "Everything Revealed," which revolutionized the history of human civilization.
Deconstructing our ingrained beliefs step by step
First, break the myth of the Enlightenment.
In fact, it was the indigenous people who enlightened the Europeans.
Let's break the myth of inequality again.
Early humans were actually more creative than we imagine.
Breaking the myth of scientific progress again
In fact, technological progress has not made us more free.
Break the myth of economic determinism
In fact, society determines the direction it wants to develop through comparison.
Finally, the myth of the agricultural revolution was shattered.
In fact, agriculture has not caused inequality at all.
The intention behind breaking these myths
It is to point out any development in human history
There is no inevitable phenomenon.
People of every era
Everyone has the freedom to decide the direction in which history unfolds.
but
If human ancestors were truly as agile as the author describes...
Knowing how to conduct social experiments and unleash creativity
So why are we now trapped in the national system and capitalism?
In the next episode, we will take you further to reveal the true origins of civilization and nation.
Understanding what is truly holding humanity back today
Using the latest archaeological and anthropological evidence to find a way out for human civilization.